ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69178	My colleagues and colleagues continue with the session. We will discuss - Reports on the work of the State Audit Office for 2013 and the Audit Reports carried out; Reports shall be submitted by the State Office for the Audit of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 15. The State Audit Office Act. The materials are published on the official website of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Defence Committee, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on Regional Development and the EU Funds. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, Chief State Auditor Ivan Klešić will explain the report to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69179	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed esteemed MPs and MPs. According to the Law on the State Audit Office, the main state auditor reports once a year the Croatian Parliament on the work of the office. Therefore, a report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2013 and all reports on the audit of the entities we covered during this reporting period was submitted to this House. After delivery to the Croatian Assembly the reports were published on our website in accordance with the Law on the State Audit Office and the Law on the right to access information. The publication of the report increases the transparency of how public funds are used but I am convinced and increases the responsibility of those who decide to use these funds. The audits were carried out according to the Annual Programme and the work plan of our office. We covered all the entities for which we are obliged to carry out an audit under the law each year, either under the Law on the State Audit Office, which is the revision of the Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget or under the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion, which is political parties, independent representatives and independent members of the representative bodies of local units. All other entities are established according to the criteria laid down in the State Audit Office Act. During this reporting period, we carried out 318 audits, of which 269 financial audits and 49 specific audits, i.e. performance audits. 75 unconditional opinions, 193 conditional and 1 unfavourable opinions are expressed. For identified irregularities, 1615 warrants and recommendations have been given. Since we are following orders and recommendations made in the previous audit, we have found that out of the 1056 orders and recommendations given in the previous audit, 46% were followed, 16% were carried out and 38% were not followed. The annual report on the implementation of the State budget for 2012 has been given a conditional opinion and on the financial reports and business of budgetary beneficiaries of 14 unconditional and 15 conditional opinions. Furthermore, we also audited 81 units of local self-government, expressed 17 unconditional and 64 conditional opinions. The audit of 13 other budget users, such as kindergartens, health homes, home for elderly and powerless persons, primary schools, Institute of Public Health, Academy, colleges and prisons, established facts about financial reports and business on the basis of which 5 unconditional and 8 conditional opinions were expressed. In addition, we audited 9 companies and the public institution of HRT. It's a conditional opinion for everyone. For the 57 sports associations covered by the revision during this reporting period there are 10 unconditional, 46 conditional and 1 unfavourable opinions, it is a public institution City Pools Varazdin. We have also audited 5 other non-profit organisations, one of which is at national level, the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency, and 4 at local level. Four conditional opinions and one unconditional opinion have been expressed. Comparing the number of unconditional and conditional opinions expressed in this and previous reporting period, the trend in the reduction of the number of entities whose business and financial report are subject to conditional opinions is increasing, i.e. the number of entities operating in accordance with the laws and effectively spending public funds. Thus, in the last 4 years, the percentage of unconditional opinions has been increased from 15% to 18% and 28%, and other than these financial audits covering financial reports and business, the State Audit Office is as I said 49 efficiency audits were carried out. A review of economic justification and the price difference of municipal public services involving 160 companies owned by local self-government units has been carried out and provides water services and services for the collection and disposal of municipal waste. The Office assessed that price differences are not sufficiently economically justified and recommended that implementation of which would contribute to a more rational availability of public resources in providing these services. The revision of the functioning of ethical infrastructure in the authorities of the state administration has covered all ministries and we have given an assessment and recommendations to improve the ethical behaviour of public sector employees. The efficiency review on maintenance of unclassified roads covered all 556 units of local self-government and estimated that only three units of 556 are the cities of Bakar and Opatija and the municipalities of Lastovo are effective in maintaining unclassified roads while all other units are given recommendations to increase efficiency. In the audit of the management of the Fund for the financing, decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, Krško was assessed to manage the funds and achieve the objectives of the Fund in part, effectively and made recommendations to increase efficiency. Dear Madam Vice-Presidents, esteemed MPs and MPs, thus comparing this report on working with reports of previous years, you could conclude that more and more efficiency audits have been carried out, or audits that assess whether the objectives have been achieved and whether the funds have been spent economically, effectively and effectively. This is also a trend in other EU-level revisions of other countries. In addition to the audit operations, the office has during this reporting period, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion, put your faith in not a small effort and hired a large number of state auditors on delivery and publication operations within the prescribed deadline of annual financial reports, police parties, independent representatives and independent members of the representative bodies of local units. As regards cooperation with other bodies as well as earlier years, the office has collaborated with judicial and state bodies, including the exchange of documents and reports with the State's attorney, the anti-corruption regulation and organised crime, the Ministry of Finance, and courts. For the purpose of carrying out the audit, the office cooperated with the State Election Commission and other state bodies. In order to carry out all these operations, the office had 277 employees, of which 228 carried out audit operations. Dear Madam Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs, thank you for your attention along with my associates, we will try to answer all your questions that will be asked during the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69180	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of independent agents colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69181	Dear Madam Vice-President, Mr. Chief State Auditors, the Honorable Mr. Representatives, that when we talk about this State Audit as well as everyone should first and foremost come from the draft guidelines for economic and fiscal policy for the three-year period. Now, did it come true, at which point these guidelines were clearly proposed, what were the circumstances preceding, which finally, ultimately, expected with 2015? However, what I may want to absorb at the outset, and certainly the most important remark of the revision, is stated on page 14 where I will not quote everything, and HABOR means the State Audit Office has ordered to coordinate those guarantee data, etc., and to include in the potential guarantees obligations and obligations for HABOR loans. With regard to a decent case, and it shows that the Office of Audit, not the DORH, is not the police, but that it can get into the taste of things, that what it does or doesn't notice clearly can always be dealt with by repressive institutions, but the fact is that at some point it can probably warn us in advance. Now, what's the point when we're talking about exactly those guidelines, which begin with every finding of state audit. First we have to go from next. In 2008, we had a million 547 employees, in October 2013, a million 371 thousand. The drop is 176 grand. Legal employees in 2008, there were a million 241 thousand, 2013 million 133 thousand, drop 108 thousand. The employees of crafts and related activities in 2008 were 268,000, in 2013, two hundred 12 thousand, a drop of 56 thousand, and the insured farmers in 2008, we had 37 thousand, 2013. Twenty-four thousand, a drop of 12,390 and so on. What is also remarkable I would say the problem right now is to look into the indifference and most recently citizens. I just want to mention that in December 2013, the debt of the citizens arrived without a chance to pay rose by 780 million kuna compared to the previous month, so 11th and he jumped 22% at the annual level. In one word last year, we have 54 thousand people or citizens who have entered the red and their debt has simply risen by some if I am not mistaken 6 billion and today amounts to 24 billion kuna. While legal entities reduce their liquidity in 2012 or at the end of 12, 42.4 billion kuna, they today amount to 33 billion kuna. With citizens, we have a situation exactly the other way around, and we can say that it is mature for personal bankruptcy of nearly 300 thousand Croatian citizens. Normally, the state audit at the outset speaks about the income and expenditure account plan, 2012 revenues planned with 108 million, 2013. 110, 2014 114 million kuna, receipts from the original plan meant 12, should have been 21 billion and that before billions of kuna 2013. 24.9 billion and 2014 24.8 billion kuna. Clearly, all of this was among other things, and total revenues were needed in '12. amounting to 130 billion kuna, 2013 136, 2014. 140. Is that gonna happen? No, I don't. All of this was planned if GDP growth occurred from, say, 0.8% in '12. A year. Unfortunately, though, opportunities were what they were, and then a man asks himself the question of where we are today or how the year ended, and about the same way in 2012. Gross domestic product negative, industrial production negative, retail trade, yet some shifts happened for the better, tourism for the better, transport of passengers, goods slightly worse, construction is unfortunately in a latent decline, basic price aggregates, there is a better situation, the labour market we know for ourselves that we have returned de facto to the situation from 2002, in respect of wages, among those who receive the situation is a slightly better, foreign direct investment, today something worse than it was in 2012, etc., etc. It is true that in 2012, we raised what the state VAT audit is talking about from 23% to 25% and I do not agree that it is neutral even for businessmen, let alone for citizens. For the public, it is certainly one significant blow, but the fact is also that the state is freeing the reinvested profits and that it left about 3 to 4 billion kunas in 2012 by reducing the health insurance rate to a large extent in 2013 so that it is free to talk about 7 to 8 billion kunas, so that the difficulties would be certainly and far more difficult. What's also interesting, of course, is that the state audit has to talk about it, and yesterday we talked about it, it's support. And what do I want to say when it comes to this support? Supports in the Republic of Croatia account for 2.37% of GDP, they are the largest compared to other European countries, the only ones that come as close as they get to us, but with 1.12% of GDP participation are Hungarians. One of Austria's support stands out 0.56%, one Germany 0.53%, I don't know, one Belgium 0.51%), but surely they have these relationships significantly different from us. And no matter what 2,37% we're out for support, 2011. 2.5%, again whether because of the redistribution that is as it is, simply some things unfortunately do not, I would say do not work or rather do not go and those who are the smallest economic operators who cannot actually come to the same, are in the most difficult situation regardless of what rests on them, I would say the survival of every nation and so on and ours. I also want to apostrophe what's important to us who are lying on the shipbuilding. Finally, the 2012 budget provides support to 499 million kuna. Shipbuilding remains I would say, yes, it remains without support in 2014, but I would say those, however, will not say functions because it always has the same function, of what meaning it had until yesterday, and that is certainly if it happens it will be bad. Right, she's been devoting nearly 30 billion kuna since she left, and where are we today? Today we have the remains of the remains of the once powerful branch which, I dare say, raised Pula, Rijeka, Split, or one Pula, Rijeka, Split are just as they are thanks to it. This year, the income of the remaining 3 or 4 shipyards, if we observe the oil separately, the Ulnik-Rijeka or 3. May, so this year's revenues will amount to 230m to 250m euros or a billion and 800m kuna. In the prewar of 2007, the proceeds of shipbuilding amounted to 6.6 billion kuna. At that time, it was 12% of Croatian exports and at that time it worked directly at 16.5 thousand employees. Five thousand employees today. The multiplier effect of shipbuilding at the time was 11.6 billion kuna, which will say that 150 thousand people were in some way leaning on shipbuilding, living one or the other, today these figures are unfortunately, to say the same third. What is certainly good are incentives for small entrepreneurship, in 2012 amounts to 700 million kuna, about 400 million kuna and some million kunas more than in 2011. The lack of revenue over expenditure in 2012 was 9.9 billion kuna, what is interesting is the profit of companies that will now return to the budget in 2014 What? [[Grebec raid: A colleague of Cain.]] Well, I talk about the audit all the time. [[Invader Zgrebec: We are discussing the revision, not the support.]] Well, the auditors had to figure it out because I'm talking about the audit all the time. Well, I was just talking about the profit of companies, so in 2012, how much? The planned billion and 50 million kunas were reached in the amount of 660.8 million kuna, normally at that time remaining to the companies we will now return it. We'll see how it goes with the companies themselves. Compensation for concessions, we see a planned 853 million kuna reached 909 million kuna, a 61 million kuna lease. I call, above all, on local self-government in Istria to submit applications for the lease of agricultural land but when they do so, they do so in accordance with the law because in 2013. The Ministry of Agriculture received only two valid and complete requests in Istria. Normally, what interests me most is the incomes of local self-government, and in 2012 they amounted to or better said how much revenue they made 21 billion 992 million kunas. The state had expenditures in 2012 of 118.7 billion kuna. So the state would income 5.3 kuna to local self-government would remain one kuna, but what's interesting is that it's distributed between cities, counties or municipalities. The city of Zagreb itself is revenueing 6.4 billion kuna, which is somewhere I need to find 21.9% means a third of the almost income generated by local self-government. Countys are absolutely sub-represented here only $5.3 billion, so they make 16.1%) of these 21.9 billion kunas, cities 8.6% and normal municipalities at least 3.3%. What's interesting is that according to the ageing incomes, the largest number of local units of them 338 or 58.7% achieved revenues, receipts of less than 10 million kunas. between 10 and 50 million kunas of income and income came from 171 local communities, and 64 local communities or 11% of them generated revenues from 50 to 500 million kuna. So other than the city of Zagreb, there are only two other local units, that is Rijeka, that is Split for 2012 made revenues or received more than 500 million kuna. And now what else is there to say? Of course, that money just doesn't leak, that's an active guarantee in these 58 seconds. The active guarantees amounted to €51.9 billion at the end of 2012, with a maturity of up to 2037. The 41.5 billion kuna guarantees relate to the transport sector, the protested guarantees were 2012 billion and 600 million kuna. They are even smaller by 10.8 billion kuna because the credit obligations of the nine billion kuna shipbuilding have been transferred to public debt. Here's how I wanted to put an emphasis on the situation we have in shipbuilding or shipbuilding and what we who can somehow live on it mean what we can expect in due course. All in all, I see no reason not to accept this report on the work of the State Audit Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69182	Replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69183	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Cain, in this debate, you spoke of various problems, so the one I noticed was support. You were talking about that area where your area of interest is, and that's shipbuilding. I, of course, don't always give up on my model, I'm talking about agriculture. And I repeat again, that two years have been taken in agriculture on support I mean 50% let's say and now the new moment is the same moment that needs to be pointed out, which is that these days they've been paid to support farmers and I bring information from the field, I testify that people are immeasurably disappointed that they don't know how much and what they got, but in any case they got less. But there is another problem that will make it more difficult in the future, which is that a transitional regulation was adopted for 2014 in which Croatia should withdraw considerable funds through the Ministry of Agriculture. In November it was already necessary to amend the Aid Act which was not adopted. And in the coming time, there will be enormous difficulties with the withdrawal of those funds. This suggests that it has not been done as well as on several occasions, with regard to that strategy that I have talked about in the context of these measures and that this will further make it difficult for farmers to withdraw support and, of course, the ministry will have to pay for it from our funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69184	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69185	That when we talk about the support for agriculture and fisheries together, we see that in 2009 they were planned or better paid in 4 billion kunas. In 2011, for 4.2 billion kunas, it was an election year, they rose slightly among other reasons, but it would be better to pay support to farmers, fishermen, in 2012 when they fell to 3.5 billion kuna. In industry, I have to notice that there are over 500 million kunas more than a year earlier in this branch where there are the most employees in 2012. The situation is clearly serious. However, also when I talk about these aids where 8.7 billion kuna is allocated on an annual basis in 2012, slightly less than in 2011. So that's the stuff that we should seriously start talking about to see who those are and who they're constantly trying to call, get involved in that system, and are constantly marginalized or bypassed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69186	On behalf of the SDP representative's club colleague Ivo Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69187	Dear Madam Vice President, respected chief state auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. When we look at these reports that have been made and that are before us, these few hundred pages, then surely we can say at first glance that the review report has been done quite in detail, extensively, that there has been a lot of effort, a lot of work. A huge job was in front of the auditors, and on the other hand, it really needs to be said correctly and confessed. What we don't see, and what's hard to see from this report, but we want to believe that most of the 211 certified auditors have done their job professionally and correctly, so we want to believe that it's really done. Since this revision has therefore been made according to the law and the applicable methodology, that a huge SDP business has been done, there is no reason not to support it, however, we will support this report, of course and give some suggestions and suggestions. We see from the report, so a review of the financial reports was made in 269 subjects. Now, that tells us at first glance that it's a lot, on the other hand it's hard to tell if it's a lot, too, too little because we don't have a comparative analysis from the previous few years so let's see what it was in 2011, the tenth, the ninth, etc. We also see that of these 269 entities, which have had a 28% revision of them, received an unconditional opinion. It's hard to say just or not, because I'm saying again we don't have a comparative analysis to see how much it's been in the past few years, so let's see if there's been any positive trends or bad ones. Something the chief auditor said in the introduction, but it should be a couple of years back so we can run an analysis. We also see that 1615 orders and recommendations were given in this reporting period in 2012, although we see that this is something or more significant than in 2011 when it was given in 1056. Now, does that mean that the review was more detailed or that really more subjects had mistakes in their work, so that's why. So we can't see from this report what's causing such a difference in condition. Another piece of information that is also visible, which is that 46% I round up those who have received certain recommendations and orders that they have done. We're talking about what was found in 2011. 16% are in the process and 38% have not acted on orders and recommendations at all. But I'll talk about it a little bit later. But what would also be interesting to see in the report what a trend it was, was it 5 years ago or was it just a trend this year. So there's always a question of how to treat this report. We can observe it at three levels. So there's one thing about it, the work of the office itself. So, how much the office did, how it worked, well. Was that professionally good, quality, as far as the subjects are concerned. Is that enough, little too much. Are those covered well-chosen, etc. That's one level we can talk about. And in order for us to talk about it, we should just have these parallel tables to really see, so if we could say enough is done. That's what we could say if we saw what's been going on for at least five years, and given the number of auditors if he's the same or the same to see if that job is big enough or small enough. Or who's covered it all? So we see what's covered 2000. So, except for those who are, for whom the State Audit is required. So, where the attorney general, so I'm determined by his work programme for that year that he's going to, where he's going to go to audit. So, we don't see, so because we don't remember and it's not good to go now, it's impossible to go now to analyze the revision for the past five years to see if that pattern is in any way good or not, whether those with which serious remarks appear are being re-audited, so let's see if they're correcting their mistakes. So that's what we don't see from the report, and in that sense, methodologically, I think something should improve or change in the next report. What we could also talk about as another problem, which is what we found, what one revision found, what the situation is. And the third thing that matters to me is that when something is found, certain irregularities, illegalities, what happens after that? So just before I talked about it, so we see that a good part of the entities 38% from 2011 did not act at all on these remarks, recommendations, or orders. So we don't know what it was like before, but I think it's a huge number. I assume that it is in all of us's interest, therefore both to the Croatian Parliament and to the State Audit, and that the aim of this revision is to make it work as much as possible or fully as possible under the regulations and laws, so that our reality is changed for the better, and in that sense the revision to control it, to point to certain problems, mistakes, irregularities. If they are minor, minor, minor, minor irregularities, then in this sense we can say that the revision has in some way and advisory preventive action, and of course if there are serious violations of certain legal provisions, what is the question? Because it doesn't matter if there's a certain gap because there's an accountant who didn't see or knew or if there was a serious intention of the head of a particular body to make a certain illegality. What is also important to say about what we here in the Croatian Parliament are always discussing, therefore, the State Audit Report, and I think we should concentrate on that part of the audit relating to state-level entities. Of course, no one is stopping us from talking about those at local level. The question arises, however, what about local levels, whether representative bodies are discussing these reports, whether the State Audit find ends up somewhere in the leader's drawer? I know from experience that it also happened that representative bodies had not considered at all, had not adopted but had not considered therefore the State Audit Report for their unit of local self-government, so they could neither take any steps nor criticise their leadership if necessary. I don't know if there's one today, but in that sense, we should talk about it. Now what's most important, so what with the observed irregularities, failures, etc.? It doesn't matter, and there are certainly certain failures, there are irregularities, a conditional opinion is given. We see that this is the most common case, so almost 70% has a conditional opinion. There's only one case, so where there's a completely bad situation and where there's a negative opinion. However, those conditional opinions are not all the same. It's not the same if there's a one-failing, shortfall or 10 or 15, and they're not all equally heavy and equally valuable. And that is why it is necessary to analyse every single person where this event really happened in order to take certain measures. So it doesn't matter if there's been a formal error or if there's been an apparent violation of the law. And what about when there's an apparent violation of the law? I wouldn't want this State Audit report to look like a confession in a church where you say what you did, the priest says it's a sin, you get penance and then you solve it or you don't solve it and you move on. And once again, if you have sinned again, you come to confession and repeat the same procedure. About the audit looks like this to me. Therefore, the revision establishes certain irregularities, illegalities etc., gives find and recommendations on what to do and then, if that entity does not do so, it is said here somewhere in Article 21. The Revision Act will therefore take that into account in the next report and give a conditional opinion again. So, if you don't execute your orders again, you'll get your parole and then again, if you don't do it again, you'll get your parole and so on. Now, if it's a minor failure, if I may say so, then come on. However, what if there are certain illegalities? I didn't see in the State Audit Act that the explicits were written, although it could be read from the law whether the revision in that section is working with the State's Attorney's Office. We were here yesterday in this House discussing the 2012 report on the work of the State Attorney's Office, today on the 2012 Audit Report. I don't see any correlation and cooperation here, at least from one report and another, I don't see that according to the proposal or according to the State's audit, the State's Attorney's Office was doing anything. So I don't see it in the report. I'm not saying that this may not be happening, but it doesn't appear in any of the other reports, and I think it would be logical to expect it in some way. Because I'm saying, in article 21. The State Audit Act says that the State Audit in its work is working with other state bodies. I think this is a co-operation, too. So if that's not there then it really comes down to that certain irregularities and illegalities were so you'll get a conditional opinion again. I don't think that's enough. In that sense, therefore, a methodological change should be made in the reports themselves or change the situation or if it is not as I say that this is clearly and clearly seen in the report. Because I say and repeat our goal is that I hope to make things better for everyone, to make it as little irregularity and illegality as possible when it comes to all public sector entities that are subject to the observation of the State's audit, that bad practice and mistakes are corrected, that if it's still correct and it's done well to subscribe and in bold letters write. Because I know, for example. For years we have had observations of the State Audit justified that Croatia does not have a regulated Register of State Property. That's right. But once it's done, it's clear and loud that it's done. Therefore, positive examples need to be pointed out and, of course, bad warning. So, this report is not different by methodology none of the previous years and it is common, the results are similar and I said in the introduction we will support this report, and I hope that all these suggestions, suggestions that I have made that the State Audit will respect, will pay attention to that and will try to change that in the next report. And if in some parts it is necessary to make certain legislative changes, I think amendments should be made, and all to do is to make the work and action of public sector entities as legal as possible, to make it as less illegal and irregular as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69188	Replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69189	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a colleague talking about that there's been an audit and formal error or a violation of the law. The definition simply speaks of more than half or 13 ministries having received a conditional opinion and talking about the use of state budget funds without plan and without control. This is clearly stated in the report of the state audit so that there are formal errors or violations of the law, it is known what the law said about spending funds without control. This is contrary to the Fiscal Responsibility Act and many times there are criminal actions that the state audit does not state as such but says that, contrary to the law, public procurement has been made, for example, in the Ministry of Health for Applications in the Internet system as well as in some other ministries where public procurement has also been done without a public tender and it clearly states, it is not a formal error but it is what should be addressed by the State Attorney's Office. It's probably a formal error for your officials, if HDZ did so would be a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69190	Replication response, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69191	Dear counterpart Djakic, it is not good when a man has short memories. You've been in this House for a long time, if you'd remembered better, you might have seen that the State Audit report during your government when it came to the ministries was the same as not to say worse, so you haven't given this kind of calculations as you are now. As you can see, in my report, I wasn't talking about this period and what I was talking about in general because I think it's in everyone's interest to make things better, to make things less illegal and irregular. And it seems only important to you to see this when the SDP is in power, and when you are not to see it, but you do not have to see it, but see others, therefore unfortunately, this attempt to hide that there have been certain irregularities and even illegalities in your well-being will not go away, not with me but with the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69192	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69193	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Chief State Auditor with Associates. Well, I have to start by saying right away that the HDZ Club will support this report and now I'm going to say why and why, and right now, that what counterpart Jelusic says is that we're looking at things differently, so we're just going to try to graph what happened to us in 2013. Why did I say we'd support this report? Because this report finds facts, because unfortunately some things are repeated year after year and because this report is done at a high professional level. The second thing is whether when we discuss such reports, we will draw certain conclusions, which is a matter of the ruling majority, and when we review the current year, we will give practical guidance and a warrant to where the revision should go next year and what the revision should pay attention to, and that is the analytical dismembering of general things. So I'm saying, I'm going to deal with some of the findings that are deeply hidden somewhere on the half of the page, and whoever's reading the text on the surface probably didn't even pay any attention to them, but I'm saying if you do a little bit better analyze them then you'll see that they have had a profound impact on this deficit jump in 2013 from 10 to 17 billion, and if there's a lot of order being made as soon as spoken in public finances in 2012 compared to 2011. because I'm saying a man has to be as correct as possible and when it's debated these things, given that it's very important to the citizens of the Republic, then it's just not to be missed some kind of politicization. And what's very important when discussing such reports is not a good thing to take out of context because some things have their own continuity, but I remember the debate in the past few years when things were ripped out of context, something turned out to be a terrible crime, and today they're just not talking about it, and not even being mentioned, and there was once a terrible crime. That's why I just don't want to say anything. However, what I would like to say and what might be the conclusion of this debate, given that it has been widely spoken over the past two years about how some new collective agreements have been signed and how these collective agreements have been given terrible rights to employees primarily in public services because there are up to 180 thousand of them and then to civil servants and tenants. I think it was convenient that when she audited the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health she simply dug into those contracts. I can tell you if you don't have a lot to do, colleague Fucks has made a nice one together in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance in 2008.The script from which you simply saw all these provisions and then you couldn't politicize about these things. But let's get it straight. Therefore, it is said in the very beginning that in 2012 financial guarantees were issued for 700 thousand kuna more than in 2011. And you know your colleagues what that is? This is the reduced amount for Croatian railways, so it was no longer a position to help HZ maintain infrastructure, etc. but for that amount that was reduced the days were guarantees and apparently in 2010 the amount of the government budget deficit was lower and you can see it in all the later documents when it was done and these guarantees were issued simply because whoever proposed the budget and this was also said when the budget was adopted that without these funds it could not function had issued a guarantee that they were in charge of the deficit being within the frameworks in which it was. It is also evident that the guarantees to many of these guarantees are not accompanied by the approvals of the Competition Protection Agency or by a decision on the absence of State support, which is very important, but very interesting that the Agency has not responded to this. Also what is very important again, we are talking about the 2012 and 2013 deficits. The audit found that, in certain cases, budgetary users recorded expenditure at a time when obligations were met instead of at the time of the occurrence of the business event. The simplest thing is, at 11, 12, you record certain accounts, and if they came, your deficit drops to 10 billion, and then you wonder why your first 6 months of 2013 deficit instead of the planned 10 billion at the annual level, for half a year jumps to 12 billion and 6 million. For it simply cannot happen to you, for neither has income fallen so much, nor has some expenditure grown so much. Obviously, but colleagues and colleagues do, the exact same story at the end of 2013 and 2014, but it's tiny written and it just doesn't want to be seen. Also a concession register. And I've talked about concessions here long and not once, so the Ministry of Finance has established a concession register, but the problem is with those above all at the local level that give concessions and no one alive can practically control what the payment of these concessions is. And that's the biggest problem. Well, budget users didn't realistically plan expenditures for individual activities. So, some expenditures are preplanned and it happens year after year, but it's very interesting that those expenditures that have to be settled, which are salaries and some other donations have been sub-planned and then it happens at 12 months that these money is missing and then these money has to be secured because they have to pay off and what happens then? The money needs to be obtained, but I'll talk about it a little bit more when I talk about the fiscal responsibility law. So that's the reason the deficit exploded in 2013. Budgetary users shall conclude an operating contract with external partners as well as earlier years for the tasks of their own part-round, and shall spend on the basis of completed contracts for the act of law, higher than those prescribed by law. When all I can think of is a debate about the services of outsiders, I could now be quoting here for an hour, but then it was a criminal thief, and today nobody even mentioned it from those for whom it was once a criminal thief. Without the application of public procurement procedures, goods and services worth 20 million kuna have been purchased. So, so much for the opening act. And on page 8 of this report, we are told that the total liabilities of audited budget users are shown at 13 billion and 6.5 million which is higher by nearly a billion kuna compared to 2011, but what is ultimately very interesting, the Croatian Institute of Pensions and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, from the total commitments made at the end of 2012, amounted to 2.5 billion kuna. And that's one of the causes of the 2013 deficit explosion. It's a fact, but it doesn't say anything this small on the side and nobody cares, nobody wants to talk about it. When we talk about the revenues of the state budget, I think this State Audit Report specifically refers to that previous years should focus on something, these are fiscal projections. There have never been so many failures in fiscal projections as it happened in 2012 and 2013, so we eventually changed fiscal projections in the budget rebalancing half of the month, which did not even resemble what was planned, but this reflected in the state budget because fiscal projections are the basis for income, and then it was an automatic basis for how much you can spend. Unfortunately, however, there is no such thing. I've already talked about the guarantee and subsidies of HZ and there's no need, so almost a billion kuna instead of being booked as expenditure, sign up as a guarantee, and you have a nice picture of the guarantees this year, but in two years you'll have an increase in deficit for that amount. In cases where expenditure has been charged with activities planned for other purposes and activities and obligations transferred in 2013. Here, colleagues and colleagues, this sentence clearly tells you why the deficit of the state budget so rapidly in 2012 fell to 10 billion and why it jumped so rapidly to 16.5.17 billion in 2013. So, we don't have to argue politically, there's a consistent fact in one sentence. And all those stories, we've done fiscal consolidation, we've put order into public finances, they fall into the water with this because it's simply saying, this is not the result of order, this is the result of riots and attempts to show something, but they forgot that in Brussels no one will swallow this kind of nonsense. And on page 19, he says that because concession providers do not provide the prescribed documentation necessary for the entry of data into the register. What I was saying, no one, no matter what level of government, whether these are units of local or regional or regional self-government, can afford the right not to supply the concession data in the concession register. But it may again be the conclusion that this is something we should deal with, who in what way is the concession, whether at a given moment, and perhaps even at the moment of EU entry, all concession agreements should be terminated, based on this new concession law, to force new tenders to be opened, to sign this? And now we come to what is behind us and criminal responsibilities because that's what the fiscal responsibility Act says. If someone doesn't like it, then it should have changed it or at least moral political responsibility to offer resignation to the prime minister if a fiscal liability law is violated, and says that the Fiscal Responsibility Act is... and the obligation to draw up and hand over statements of fiscal responsibility and then there are some ministries that have provided statements of fiscal responsibility which do not detect weaknesses and irregularities and that irregularities have been identified. Now tell me how someone who manages the funds, spends it, doesn't realize he's broken what he wrote that he's going to stick to and the state audit comes, it determines nothing. And when we look at the report on the implementation of the budget, we don't know that this beneficiary of the state budget filed a report on fiscal responsibility and that he found that he followed these rules, and now the audit claims that that's not the case. So what we found when we accepted the report on the implementation of the state budget doesn't fit the facts. Because the fiscal responsibility law I've repeated that I don't know how many times, why? Because as a minister, I have forced this law to be passed and only with this law can order be introduced into public finances was the reason to make it impossible for those who are unable to behave in the frameworks brought by the High House, which is to bring their programme in line with the amount of funds they received in the budget. However, this report also shows that this has not happened. And now, in the end, a few words about the revision of local self-government and public enterprises units. So, in the units of local self-government by me, and later on, when we discuss this report, when it comes to the introduction of real estate taxes, I think this report should have a particular focus on the payment of the communal fee to be paid, and to see that this is what is said not to increase real estate taxes to Croatian citizens is farce because if someone plans to cut the health care contribution to the tax on non-real property, then it is clear that something is wrong. However, in order for this to be discussed, this report should make it more clear how much the percentage of the payment of the municipal fee is. Many local self-government units have neither introduced any taxes nor have any income from them. What is also very important, and these are the funds from the sale of apartments, their payment to the state budget on the one hand, that state must make sure that it collects its own and can force units of local self-government. But far more important the other part, and the fact that these funds from selling social housing must be used to implement a social programme is to buy apartments for a social programme per unit of local self-government. And there is a very important control of whether units of local self-government have worked in such a way or used those funds for something else, and I think unfortunately it happens very often because obviously when someone doesn't have enough money they use those funds for something else. And finally, the price of municipal services is not good for the citizens of Croatia to what is national good, and that is the water they pay differently. Some pay 4.5 times more, this country has to intervene in some other way. It's the same as garbage dumps. I think we have one total chaos here, and first of all, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the fund must understand with the units of local self-government that this is one of the biggest problems at the moment in the Republic of Croatia that needs to be resolved and that is one position in the quote of the State Audit when it comes to this segment must be very important. So I repeat we will support this report but if you read it a little better then you will see that what once was a crime today is wonderful and great for some colleagues but it is not so.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69194	Thank you. Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69195	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You spoke of this finding to the state,...and in this sense you mentioned opinions by individual ministries. The Ministry of Finance for 2012 received an unconditional opinion. Since in September 2012, the Financial Business Act and the pre-departure settlement obviously had little implications for this law in 2012 because I assume that the reports on the implementation and effects of this law still do not have, that the implications of this law would actually apply to 2013. In this context, you were talking about the 2013 deficit explosion, so I would remind you that according to our knowledge of the state or the Ministry of Finance, which in the name of the State has written off some 900 million kunas by 31 June 2013 to a number of companies on behalf of the adoption of a settlement. Now when we talk about the write-off of such claims on behalf of unpaid taxes, the question arises whether the State Audit Office should, in your opinion, be on that fact that these 900 million kunas did not go through the state budget and that the Ministry of Finance is not showing it, is not thus reducing and such a huge deficit of the state budget for 2013. If these funds do not go through the state budget, then this will not be noticeable at the deficit of the state budget. So in that sense, it would be very interesting and interesting if the State Audit Office had told us here today, whether the written-off funds that the Ministry of Finance write off in pre-fashion settlements should be recorded in the state budget, whether or not the Ministry of Finance should bring solutions and ultimately whether this will clearly enter the 2013 deficit which is also huge.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69196	Replication response. My colleague Bacic, follow the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69197	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Bacic, this is too broad a subject to touch everything. So a pre-fashion deal is something that will be very interesting how it will be processed in the 2013 review because look nice to boast that indifference has been reduced by 14 billion. However, it has not been reduced it is only administratively eliminated some kind of debt, but under the Support Act it clearly says that certain tax exemptions are support. However, it is far more important that this new fiscal responsibility law, adopted on Friday, will be adopted in this House of Commons. its Article 3(7) shall apply in the future to state, among other things, when such laws are passed, the person proposing the law must treat this as future expenditure, because any tax exemption in a certain way reduces the revenues of the state budget and this should be treated as some kind of expenditure. But what I didn't have time to say in this opening part of the book, which is what you remember about my colleague Bacic, how pompously there was a list of debtors announced, that he would do it, I don't know what. However, when you look at the report and see an analysis of the revenue side, you will notice that nothing has been achieved in practice. And secondly, that list of taxpayers in the IRS has existed for years and nothing has been done now. So, these debts were recorded and if it was so easy to collect then one elemental question is asked and why was it not charged over the past year and a half but was charged to some few hundred million kunas. Just as in some future times, the question of this famous reduction of indifference, which is exclusively the administrative erasure of one’s obligations, and especially of the daughters’ companies, will be raised.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69198	Ivo Jelusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69199	I warned my colleague Djakic just before that he should not have a short memory, and now I see that fellow Shuker also forgets some things that were not long ago during their rule, so here is some other information. There seems to be a general amnesia syndrome here at HDZ, so they all forget what happened two, three years ago and they just know what happened last year. So, says counterpart Shuker, they've never been as bad of a fiscal projection as it is now. So he forgets what happened in 2008, 2009 when the whole world was in crisis, a recession in action across Europe, the whole world and the HDZ government and they said there was no crisis. However, those who warned of problems said it was a crisis they were declared a disaster. And in doing so, we lost two precious years to looking for a solution to getting out of the crisis, which is what you missed. And when Europe began to recover from that first wave of recession we unfortunately did not. Europe began looking for a solution and found a part of the solution to exit the crisis and in late 2010, had positive growth rates. Croatia is not. Why? Because you didn't see the crisis or you didn't want to admit it was a crisis, and now you're telling others how bad they have projections. How to interpret it rather than bad memory, intentionally or unintentionally. Therefore, the fact is that during your rule the average growth rate in Europe and in Croatia was 3% to 4%. We're so behind Europe. Today, Europe unfortunately has entered a new wave of recession that is reflected in the state of Croatia, but we have managed to get close to Europe to about 0.5, 0.7, 0.8%. The difference between the growth rate in Croatia and the average growth rate in Europe. That was three to four times that for you. So much for that and I'm asking that though if you're affected by amnesia, we're not, so let me remind you of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69200	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69201	Well, colleague Jelusic, I think you're more of an amnesiaist. You said something a few months ago. But it does the truth and it does the facts. If we're going to talk about these things, by macroeconomic indicators, then one has to know something about macroeconomic analysis, because fiscal projections are given data and it's not what you say impressions. And the other thing, if your 10 month increase in secured savings was not a clear message to the Croatian public and Croatian citizens that the crisis had arrived in Croatia, then I don't know what was more obvious. However, you do not know that Friday before Monday, when the law was passed, there was a rush on Zagreb Bank counters. If that law hadn't been passed, ask God what would have happened to the banking system, what would have happened. However, when a person does not want to see something, you simply use the media that is almost your newsletter to place falseness. And also when we talk about it, if I'm not wrong in the fourth month, the budget is down by nine billion kuna. That's the facts. But my colleague Jelusic, I think that with my debate, I simply tried to point out some of the things that led us to where we are today, which is overcoming some of the expenditure and some kind of artificial display of the deficit in 2012. 10 billion. Because look, it can't happen if you have an explosion of 7 billion kuna deficits or 70% if you have an economic downturn compared to last year 1%. It can't happen by any economic legality. But it could happen if you read what you read in the State Audit report that many didn't record events when they were created, and they had to by law, but they recorded them when they paid for them. in 2013 So these are the facts. And we can talk about those facts. And if we talk about facts, it'll be easier and nicer for us all in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69202	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69203	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker, here you are, already reporting for the replica, even though I haven't said the answer. So it is not doubtful that I can agree with most of your exposure, because the very facts when the State Audit points out and that certain unconditional opinions are certain that things are not drawn up in the way they should be. This is clear, and this government does not otherwise hide neither the truth, nor the facts, nor the problems, but rather offers and works proactively. What I'd like to highlight from your speech, where, of course, it's missed some facts. You keep talking about the expansion of the deficit. Otherwise, both yesterday and today, etc. and this is a topic that is extremely important for both the state budget and the state budget in general, which is that what it said in the 2011 State Audit Report does not appear in 2012, and it is extremely important for the deficit and shows how much progress this Government has made on this matter in the management of public finances, and in 2011, it is clearly defined that there is no data on the state's debt situation and potential debt to active guarantees and claims. So that's something that we didn't have when we found 2012 recorded and what essentially happened in 2012 and it registered and made and the good part, which is why we have a public debt, or deficit as we have, because we had to record it with the same observation that I absolutely agree with that all obligations are not only settled, but those that are agreed should be shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69204	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69205	Look, my colleague Gjurkovic, from college and courtesy and home education, sometimes I have to be careful how I use my words. Now you've mixed it up, without intent to offend you, pears and apples. You have a public debt record in one special service at the Ministry of Finance where all government duties are recorded, both in the long term and in the short term. And the thing is, it's been going on for years, and it hasn't been done yet, that link between the Public Debt Administration and the Treasury. So these are the facts. And I was only talking about the deficit here. At the time when the deficit and the part that you have financed from the privatisation income and the sale of assets does not increase your public debt, and the part that you have financed from borrowing regardless of what public debt it increases. And therefore, I haven't talked about public debt at all. But I'm saying, out of college, a man just wouldn't want to say some things without hurting anyone. But let's not because of all the problems that Croatia is in and that we suffer no matter what political option we belong to and honestly say, look at the Ministry of Finance for its part has an unconditional opinion practically since 2004 on this. Therefore, the problem is with those who use funds, which are budget users. I keep saying it over and over again, so there's been a fiscal responsibility law to get them in line. And public debt is a statistical indicator and you look at you U.S. will change some things in 2010. And what's the biggest problem when you look at the 2013 and 2014 deficit is the real income and expenditure gaps, while some of the things that happened in the 2011 deficit happened in the previous years. But let's say that 9 billion will return as far as shipbuilding is concerned in future times. But this deficit in 2013 and 2014 is unfortunately almost a simple accounting difference between income and expenditure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69206	Thanks, buddy. Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69207	Comrade Shuker, but you forget to mention your deficit in the last year of your reign was 12 billion. 15 billion. [[/Intruder: 15.]] The following year, so the first year of the coalition rule was 10 billion and later it increased by these 7 billion that you're talking about but you forget to say that it had to pay back the 3.5 billion debts that you left in health to relieve the economy by 4 billion. And besides, when you take public debt, then 50% of what this government has been paying has gone to default. The former government left nearly 3 billion bills that she did not pay. Ministry of Agriculture 900 million unpaid accounts, Ministry of Economy 500 million, Ministry of Maritime Affairs 200 million, Ministry of Finance 800 million unpaid accounts. So that should have been paid. And when we look at 2012 this government paid old debts, it paid interest on public debt and that was the reason for the deficit. Well, speaking of facts. You can talk about pears and apples, and this is about money. I'm just thinking some things, because you said this government didn't bring order into finance. And it's not easy to bring him in, and he's bringing him in. It's not easy to bring him in when it's coming. I just wanted to say a few facts, no matter what I'm not an economist, I think they say a lot to the average citizen of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69208	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69209	My colleague Jurjevic, if it's all true what you said, then what happened to you in 2013? If you did all this in 2012 and you had a deficit of 10 billion and you increased VAT from 23% to 25%, you abolished a zero VAT rate, you increased income tax, what happened in 2013 if you settled it all? Or is it my colleague Jurjevic who will be in 2014 if you have solved the health problems you keep saying and now it is evident that at the end of the year you will have 3 billion and 700 minuses? It's obvious you haven't paid anything for your medicine since 1.06 this year in health care. Col. Jurovic's maths and figures are exact indicators. And you can throw them on them like this and eventually end up in 2012, but then you're waiting in 2013 with a deficit of 17.5 billion. Well, that's the biggest deficit in the history of the Croatian state. And don't chase for the part that was added to the shipbuilding. There is also your sin and HDZ's sin in that shipbuilding but these are loans that are nominally accounted for in the 2011 deficit and will be paid for the next 10, 15 years. Therefore, my colleague, what I said to my colleagues Gjurkovic and colleagues Jelusic, your problem, I mean yours, and all of us, is a deficit in 2013, of 16.5 billion, deficit 2014 which will be over 20 billion until the budget is rebalanced but the problem is that this deficit is the result but it is simply a mathematical difference between income and expenditure. And the other thing, when you talk about interest, you can talk to your colleague Jurjevic by 2012, one part of the HDZ interest, but one part of the interest from 2012 and the total increase in 2013 is the result of your debt. And you, in order to finance this deficit up to 20 billion, must be in debt at extremely unfavourable interest given the price of the capital market at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69210	And Josip Djakic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69211	Thank you very much. Well, you have clearly defined that the State Audit has done its job quality and provided all the information on the state of the ministries. It is evident that only 7 ministries have unconditional opinions, while 13 of them have failed and spent state money without legal regulations, without a public tender, without booking. So I will inform you only that at the Ministry of Economy the audit determines that the existing system of support monitoring control is not satisfactory and is satisfactory during 2012. The Ministry did not exercise direct control over the implementation of the projects or requested the return of funds in accordance with the contract, evidence of the purpose of the use of grants did not provide 117 users or 62% of the users are listed in the report. Here are the picantries that speak of concessions, concession fees, fundraising, all caused by the deficit you spoke of, and also by order in the financials for which praises are actually caused by the riot because today we see that the Ministry of Health has unpaid accounts not for 60 days but for over 360 days, so that nothing happened positively in introducing order in public finances but clearly says this report by the State Office for Auditing that it is still working without control and without the legal frameworks prescribed. Especially the one about fiscal responsibility to be used and not respecting such a deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69212	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69213	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Djakic, the key problem is what I said in my speech on behalf of the club, conditional opinion for those ministries that did not knowingly record certain events at the time of the beginning, but shifted them to the next year and what is fact and truth, no matter how hard colleagues from the ruling Kukuriku coalition tried to show that it was a rehabilitated health, every 90-year minister of finance in here hurts his head because of health. Because you can't if you've cut someone's income by two, three billion and the health ministry's budget is so reduced when you look at these measures to stop the excessive deficit, they're going to be cut back to health and you haven't done anything to make it work differently except force doctors and shut down their strike leaders. And you know that at this point you have 3.5 billion minus, you know that you have it and it's so blindly lurking in front of it and the normal thing is that the minister is still going to have a little hair on his head that's gone by the end of the year when he's going to have to resuscitate that healthcare and that's just because he's running away from the facts. Because if the problem was during HDZ, and if it's continuously producing some kind of negatives, then that's the problem right now. And if it hadn't been for a random strike, if some things hadn't happened, unfortunately, would have been delayed, and probably that minus would have been far greater. Therefore, I sincerely hope that this country will finally and the Law on fiscal responsibility will be lashed politically and morally on the head so that no one can think of spending more than what this House of Commons has approved.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69214	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69215	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Chief State Auditor with associates and associates, colleagues and colleagues. We accept this State Audit report. I will walk through this exhibition on behalf of the club through other reports and then go back to this which is on the agenda but I think the opportunity, a good opportunity, is that it shows us only once a year in the Croatian Parliament to say something about the state audit, about people who are self-secret and very professionally doing their job. This job is not easy or simple at all, it requires additional knowledge, great knowledge, tenacity and, of course, depoliticalism, so the state review must go towards everyone equally and I think that through this report we can also conclude it. Of course, reports and the work of the State Audit are also a powerful anti-corruption tool. So this is one important lever and analysis over the years, let's say for the last ten years, and I think it would be good to do a comprehensive analysis, and I think it can further support a lot of movements or say about some movements and many movements and even negative movements in Croatian society. So, full, full support to the work of the State Audit. And I am alone as Minister of State Auditors, and I think it is important that we send a message about this report that we are discussing today is that the state bodies, first of all, need to work as if every day the state auditors will come to the Ministry or to another body and as if every day they will start their work. Such access to work will, of course, certainly bring better reports on the work of all those who use taxpayers’ money. Often when we talk about conditional opinions or those that are entirely unfavourable but I will remain on probation, it does not necessarily mean that any criminal or serious infringement of the rules is behind any conditional opinion, it is often about errors that occur out of pure ignorance, and therefore I think that all those who receive conditional opinions must invest much more in the education of all those working on jobs, which are related to the spending of taxpayers' money. I'd like to analyse exactly the types of opinions given to the groups of entities of the audit as described here. So the state budget and budget users, the number of subjects is 30, and unconditional opinions is 14. Madam Vice President, I'd just like to ask you if you can silence some colleagues and colleagues because it's quite difficult sometimes to compete with those who want to offend the one who speaks for this speaker. So, hospital and health institutions, that's something we should really think about. So 30 subjects, and the unconditional opinions only got two, so only two from the hospital system, that's a very, very bad report, that's a very, very bad result. Local units 81, only 17 received unconditional opinion. Non-profit organisations, 62 have been investigated since the state audit, only 11 received unconditional opinion. Political parties, 25 of them, 12 received unconditional opinion. It's the same thing that makes us, it's not something we could dance about, because we're all politicians here, dancing with joy, so if out of 25 political parties, only 12 of them get an unconditional opinion. It's a good thing none of them got an unfavourable opinion. As regards the 2012 report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia and the audit of budgetary users, I read the report of the State Audit, identified irregularities and failures relating to planning and accounting operations, revenues and expenditures, public procurement, state guarantees and budget stockpiles. So something that we naturally warned about and when the budget for that year was being made, when both incomes and expenditures were being talked about. What the State Audit also warns about is the budget stock. Therefore, the audit found that, except for the intended purposes, the budgetary stock was also used to finance expenditures that could have been foreseen and planned by the state budget. So, something very important. Budgetary stock in principle is not some huge amount of money as a percentage when looking at the state budget, but it is important money, every drop in the state budget must be used in the most meaningful way and therefore I find this warning extremely important. However, something else that has established that potential obligations such as claims against the Republic of Croatia are not generally recorded. The audit also found that, in certain cases, budgetary users recorded expenditure at a time when obligations were met instead of at the time of the occurrence of the business event. So this is a really big problem that the State Audit warns about, especially what is already indicated here, which is that the revenues were planned, expenditures planned, it also warns the State Audit, directly or indirectly. I remind you of the debate that was held here on salaries in certain ministries, it turned out at the end of that year, but also at the end of 2013, when we had to find nearly a billion kuna in the budget rebalancing of the two ministries. As for the opinions on the report and the business of the budget users, there are 14 unconditional and 15 conditional opinions here. It is good that among those who have received unconditional opinion and the Croatian Parliament, it is easier to breathe and to discuss it. As for the budget audit of local units, 17 unconditional for 6 counties and 11 cities and 64 conditional opinions. Here it is very interesting to analyze those who have received unconditional opinions among the teams, so when we talk about counties almost all were except one county who had unconditional opinions in the previous period, and one that had conditionally, that is Koprivnica-križevska, has now obtained unconditionally. So it's good to point that out. And among the cities that got the unconditional opinion, most of them all as far as I can see, except for one, they had a conditional opinion in the previous period, and now they've changed into unconditional opinions that I think, that's that it's not all so black and sometimes it's worth pointing out, so that's what I'm going to mention, the cities of Dubrovnik, Koprivnica, Lipik, Opatija, Pakrac, Požega, Samobor, St. St. A week that had unconditional opinion, Sibenik, Vinkovci and Virovitica. And finally, the State’s chief auditor pointed out today in his introduction of the reasoning that more attention is being paid to the efficiency audit covering the local unit’s own incomes. And the State Audit made 2404 recommendations to those units, so almost 2,500 recommendations. The most received by Osijek-Baranja County, 230, but the county and it is interesting for this analysis has an unconditional opinion. The city of Zagreb received only 5 recommendations and that is something interesting for the analysis. Therefore, it shows this analysis of the recommendations received by local administrations and self-government from the State Audit that those who have also received the highest number of recommendations for what needs to be improved obviously did not do the worst. It is the same thing that can be used to support those who work hard every day who do their work honorably and in accordance with the law that next year, or in the next period that we will discuss, we will see what it will look like to be really good or much better. Finally, according to the State Audit of 7 local units, and this Mr. Chief State Auditor pointed out that he is effectively charging his own revenues, i.e. by revising no irregularities and failures identified. These are the following local units, I will also list them the cities of Bakar, Čakovec and Kutina and the municipalities of Blato, Drnje, Djelekovac and Hlebine and they deserve all our praises. I think that a lot, a lot more should be pointed out by those who are doing great, who are doing well to be an example of whatever it sounds like to anyone who sometimes stumbles about laws but, of course, also in law enforcement or in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69216	Replica Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69217	Your Honor, Madam President. You said the Parliament received unconditionally positive opinion and made it easier to breathe. So you see how contradictory life is. We have received an unconditionally positive opinion from the audit, and we receive an unconditionally poor opinion on the work of the Parliament. So what now? Where's the truth? I believe that the revision works well and in relation to the experience of the duties I have acted on, and those institutions, some of the worse ones, some of them quite badly, but I don't think that legislation follows life. If the revision finds it year after year to repeat itself in several subjects that something is repeating, then we need to look at what real life is. Is this because certain institutions cannot meet legal standards? We need to change the legal frameworks, we need to amend the Public Procurement Act. We're just focusing on the fact that the State's Attorney's Office should solve all the problems and this and that and here's the review today. We should allow as little problems as possible in the institutions. How are we going to recognize or observe the fiscal responsibility law when I said the last time, so you got angry as if you couldn't respect it and there will be a hundred audit findings under that law that it's him and that one. I can't say much within these two minutes, but I'd just like to say that you understand what I'm saying. You said it was only 2% unconditional positive results and that's bad. I would say that you should ask yourself what is wrong with those 2%, that you should check those who have received unconditional opinion in some institutions. Because you know what, most of all, or I won't say the most common in my opinion there's a lot of work, not doing anything, then you'll be clean in front of the audit, and the state will sink... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69218	Thank you, dear colleague Marasovic. Please take care of the weather and step over every time. ... Then others aren't in the same position. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Cresimir Bubalo Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69219	Thank you very much. My colleagues Kosor namely the State Audit does their part of the work very correctly and consciously and make recommendations. And units of local or regional administrations also remove some shortcomings or not. That's what's key, whether someone's trying to remove or not, like we're not removing a government deficit that's getting bigger year after year. But you said in your presentation that the good ones should be highlighted. And we need to point out that good, but also bad that people learn about examples and good and bad things right now we are trying to make Croatia the best for us, for the audit reports to be as good as possible, for them to be without irregularities, for there are irregularities in these reports, they pass through the years. But anyone who worked in a local or regional administration unit knows well that something that's been done badly for 20 years can't be removed in one year. Therefore, this tendency to reduce irregularities is very important and should be highlighted in these reports, but highlighted both good and bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69220	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69221	Yes, well, in my presentation, I also talked about bad examples if you listened well. But it's so bad that it's so bad that it's so bad information, it's so negative energy that I think we really need to point out those and more because we're willing to talk here in the debates only about bad phenomena, and there are some good ones. So my idea is to point out those who did well in this debate too. They may be examples of others, but this example of recommendations, therefore, is something important to emphasize. The recommendations aren't to blacken someone up. They're to do better. One who can listen, and that's important in politics to listen to, but also hear, he will, of course, fix things. And certainly when something is very, very bad and something is left out, it's hard to fix it, but anyone who is trying in the end has absolutely got results and that's important. And not all of them who have received a conditional opinion, nor criminals, nor ignorants, but have had some failures that are likely to be repaired next year. And every one of these repairs, and I end up with, is an additional one, which I'm sure is saving taxpayers' money, and that's what we all do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69222	On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjrukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69223	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected chief state auditor with deputies and associates, colleagues and colleagues. So the HNS Club will also support this State Audit Office’s 2013 report. And what is key to the state audit and this report? It should therefore be reiterated firstly that the main objective of the financial audit is to verify the financial reports of the compliance of the business and the efficiency of the spending of public funds, and that is when we talk about that segment of the financial audit which carried out the 318 audits of financial audits, i.e. 269 financial audits and 49 specific audits relating to efficiency, means efficiency, efficiency and relevance. And now that we're considering these reports comprehensively, then we have to say that in the first place, it's a shame that one time a year we're even discussing these audits because it's too little. Too many audits are too important, they are too important because they point to the work of what is important both the ministries and the public sector, or all those who are legally required by the State Audit Office to monitor, control and give their opinion. And, of course, that segment that has been greatly increased lately in the work of the Office of State Audit, which is an audit of efficiency. When we talk about the work of the public sector or ministries, which was the most important subject of the debate so far, then surely we can say, or I can say, that when it comes to reviewing for the ministry that has just taken place, which is in 2012, it is quite clear that who is doing this and is wrong. The question is, of course, whether these mistakes are criminal nature, whether these mistakes are harmful in the use of budgets or whether they are a sequence of certain ignorances, certain procedures and situations. And for this reason, the very analysis of the work of the ministries that will come to us on the benches on our schedule will obviously next year, at this time, show how high-quality and how high-quality everything that is needed for the ministry to function, i.e. by the system of unconditional opinions, which is the absolute goal of both these coalition governments and us in the HNS, and that is what the mission and ministries are. Because in this way, let us be honest with each other about the presentation and the messages sent by the ministries are much clearer and better quality if they do them themselves unconditionally or if they have a conditionality to make mistakes that are not essential. It is certain that what is the same is essential when we analyse the work of the public sector ministries, but also public companies, which are essentially using budget funds, the means of citizens to always stress this, and this is the number of orders and recommendations that, according to the previous audit, are corrected by the shortcomings observed. It is not good when we read the report that out of the total number of recommendations from previous audits and there should be no matter who was in power and who took over the recommendations are clear and they relate to all. So we had a total of 1056 recommendations, and when we talk about the state budget and the users there were 166. It was done 61, in the procedure 45, not followed 60, or when we talk about the total recommendations for those made by the State Audit Office since 1056 did not go into 403. That's almost 40%. It's not good and it's the responsibility of all those who didn't act and that's what we often said when the Law on fiscal responsibility on political responsibility was whether or not, whether, when not, what is constitutional, what is not. But the biggest political responsibility is political responsibility to the public and political responsibility to those who have set up and elected. So, the responsibility to act on the revision, to initiate procedures that have been seen as shortcomings or irregularities by the State Audit Office are necessary and necessary and that is what I believe and I know that even within the coalition there will be no discount. In order for these procedures to be carried out under previous audits, as well as the procedures necessary in procedures when performing the tasks controlled by the State Audit, it is certain that it is good and necessary, and we have seen in this text the report that certain state-owned companies or agencies do not have and have not set up an internal or internal audit office. Although internal, or internal audit does not correspond to the State Audit Office, it is certainly one important segment of efficiency, i.e. quality financial audit of the Ministry itself, agency or company or already institution that has to do the job and prepare for all procedures necessary to be carried out in an adequate manner. And it is certainly a segment that we, as the Croatian Parliament as needed and when changing certain laws or the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, must raise to a higher level which makes it easier for us to work on one side of the Office of State Audit, facilitate the mayors, mayors and mayors as much quality as possible if they have a better quality and internal audit. It would also not be bad, however, if, in the case of internal audits or internal audits, when the State audit is designed to control a specific budgetary user or to monitor them, it also gives an opinion on how the internal audit works. Because if the internal audit is the same as the State Audit says, and it is not carried out then it is necessary to talk and talk about a specific and political or moral responsibility. Kola Jelusic mentioned reports on city councils, city councils or county councils regarding the revision of whether local council members receive a report at all, as all parliamentary representatives get to discuss because these are real rare documents that effectively determine the quality of work, and in particular the efficiency of spending public funds and the compliance of business with the law. What the State Audit is doing is certainly one of the key documents in which the way and work under the law on compliance and labour of spending, i.e. investment in public funds, can be established. There is something that we need to introduce a much stronger responsibility for the work on State Audit reports and responsibility that is constantly and often increasingly being passed through the Croatian Parliament, asking all those who use the resources of the state budget to do so in a better and more effective way and to bear responsibility for what is not done. This is the establishment of a specific line of responsibility based on the State Audit Report and the establishment of continuous mechanisms to monitor the implementation of the audit recommendations. Because what I said once a year when we're discussing this, it's a little bit. We will be much more efficient both as a state and as a system, especially when spending public funds. One of the important things I would also like to point out, which is the effectiveness or revision of the effectiveness of the State Audit. It has been shown that these efficiency audits give us a clear overview of all the facts needed to make it more cost-effective, more efficient, more effective, to realize what is planned and to show what has been achieved. And that's that segment that I often like to point at... policy when based on efficiency, whether it is in the case of efficiency of the hospital system, whether it is an efficiency related to the price of water, municipal services is something to build and improve both local and state policies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, a lot of discussions and discussions were about planning, quality planning of funds when based on an efficiency analysis, when it comes to the analysis of the real fact of certain statistics, then it will also be effective, and planning will be much, much more quality. And on this point, it would also be more effective not to wait for the State Audit to come and make an audit of the effectiveness but to make internal audits that are within certain systems the very basis of the known methodology of the efficiency review within the system that the State Audit can verify whether they are correct by methodology and everything to get the quality of efficiency then they would get much more efficiency. And all of this is to make the best use of public funds more efficient public administrations, as efficient and faster as possible to realise all projects with as little input costs as possible, as little burden as possible for citizens. Better public finances and more efficient spending of funds is one of the best systems and methods of work that this Croatian Parliament can contribute to, and that is, that the audits provided by the Office of State Audits now, after new entry into the EU, are continuously posted on the website of the Office of State Audit. So we don't have to wait for reports for a year, or the public what's even more important. We will likely discuss reports for 2013 again after one year, but we and the Committee on Budgets and Finance and other committees responsible for certain ministries, i.e. responsible for certain public companies, can have within 8 days after it becomes a powerful report on any entity that is audited or financial or effective and this is a new contribution both to State audits and a new contribution to EU entry and the contribution of the Information Act itself and the right to information. So no one can hide and wait for his audit to come before the Croatian Parliament after a year, each revision within 7 days of the power of attorney on the websites. And I think it will contribute extremely to the very efficiency and quality of the work of those over whom the audit was done. And what I'm saying is, I'm going to say again, a much better work of internal auditors can also help the State Audit, and for us ourselves, to be more effective towards citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69224	Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69225	Thank you very much. Col. Gjurkovic and the HDSSB club will support the revision, given that it was done according to INTOSAI method perfectly neatly and we have no objection to this report, but what you were saying about internal audit we know that in units of local self-government and so on. regional self-government, i.e. in the counties, and internal audits under actual authority, let's say the mayor and mayor. Therefore, I would hardly agree with you that they are of some great help to the State Audit since I will not say that I doubt but it is clear that there is if you are under the authority of the mayor as a service there is a question of independence of showing your opinion. That's what this is about. And I don't think that's just me, but there's a lot of writings in the media and elsewhere that's what they're talking about. In fact, if there was such independence and there was such a possibility of independent work then in some counties where there is now a very current situation in connection with certain applications and procedures, it would not have been what happened and you know who it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69226	Replication response, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69227	Dear colleague, I agree well with your replica, so I said that to achieve this public, better public finances and more efficient spending of generally public funds at local or state level should set up a line of responsibility and mechanisms to monitor the implementation of the audit processes. It is perfectly natural and logical and that we use those instruments that we have and these are internal audits that need to be given additional responsibility and should be revised or amended in the part of the law where state audit can provide certain assessments, guidance so that they, regardless of who sets them up and chooses, have the responsibility of having the state audit run an analysis of both ministries and the public sector and that their opinion on the monitoring of the realisation and impact and of certain procedures and orders to be carried out. Therefore, when a clear mechanism is set up, whoever put you up, if someone calls you tomorrow or doesn't do your job, you will tell him, you have set me up, but I will have to do your job because the public, transparency and the media and the citizens will call me not to do my job. So when we set up a clear mechanism for this matter. We are now an example of internal audits, then we get in a system where there is no more space to hide than everyone does their job and we get what we always talk about in the Croatian Parliament, responsibility for a particular job.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69228	We're moving on to an individual debate. First colleague Nadica Jelash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69229	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Chief State Auditor with colleagues and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, I remind you that in 2014 the State Audit Office has recorded 20 years of its existence and in this 20-year-old continuous we can freely say work, so in this continuity, the State Audit Office has indeed confirmed itself as a very powerful link in the chain of public money control and protection of state property. In fact, state auditors regularly search annually if they can thus say one large part of the public funds and through their instructive actions contribute to the reduction of established irregularities and illegality in the management of taxpayers' money. Thus, during the reporting period, the State Audit Office carried out 269 financial audits from the state budget to the political parties. In addition to these financial audits, 49 specific audits covering as many as 738 entities have been carried out. These audits have been tripled in relation to their number of previous years, and that is indeed true for every commendation because these particular audits are very important and very useful because they deal with specific problems of vital importance to our citizens. Thus, in order to determine the economic justification, the differences in the price of municipal public services have been found to be of 123 municipal companies dealing with the supply of water, 119 of which, therefore, 119 literally cannot calculate the price of water, and that fact is, of course, endlessly frustrating for our citizens, and we really listen a lot on Croatian media these days. Despite significant shifts in the creation of socially responsible behaviour in public money management, the fact remains that the state audit office still detects in the field a large number of irregularities and illegalities and consequently shows the highest number of conditional opinions in its reports. Thus, in 2013, out of the 269 entities covered by the financial audit, 71.7% received just a conditional opinion, 0.4% received an unfavourable opinion and 27.9% expressed unconditionally. In particular, the problem is shown constantly and unfortunately without significant changes to the better local environment, and I want to concentrate my discussion on this particular problem. Of the 81 revised units of local and regional self-government in 2013, only 17 of them received unconditional opinion, so 6 counties and 11 cities. Even 64 received conditional opinions, 13 counties, 36 cities and all 15 different revised municipalities. This problem is getting so much more weight if the financial resources available to audited entities are taken into account. In fact, all 81 audited units of local or regional self-government have a total of 15.8 billion kuna income. Of these 17 units of local or regional self-government that received unconditional audit opinions, only 2.3 billion kuna or 14.5% are related to 64 units of local self-government, which, for which the audit findings were conditional, bear as much as 13.5 billion kuna or 85.5% of total. Of course, a picture of the relationship of units of local or regional self-government towards public money, so according to taxpayers' money, also completes data on the behaviour of companies owned by units of local or regional self-government, most of which are unfortunately also subject to conditional audit opinions. And what further enhances the impression of this one, I would say freely irresponsible relationship between the units of local and regional self-government according to the money of their citizens is the data on respect for the warrants and recommendations given by the State Audit Office to the units of local self-government and with a view to all detected failures being removed and not being repeated in the future. In 2013, a total of 525 orders for the correction of identified irregularities were issued to local self-government units. However, if it is to be judged by how it was handled by the orders issued in previous years, a large number of warrants will not yet unfortunately be respected. For example, a year earlier, in 2012, local and regional self-government units, the State Audit Office issued 567 orders, of which local and regional self-government units only respected 234 or 41%, so less than half of them. 104 orders are in the process of execution, and 229 are in fact not being followed at all. Therefore, orders and recommendations of the State Audit Office are ignored, the work of professional people paid by taxpayers is ignored. In order to re-exploit and re-expend budget money next year by detecting the same irregularities and illegalities. This circled up, so this data is worrying and suggests that it is wrong and that it is illegal to manage public money locally and that almost all local officials, bad officials, are even criminals. However, we know that this is not so, that it is not true, a significant part of the failure is simply due to the lack of expertise of local administrations because local self-government because of lack of funds cannot afford a sufficient number of professionals. The local self-government unit, in particular, I mean the municipalities, so they don't come to their senses to connect with each other and to work together to make their overall functioning more rational. It's just that everyone wants to be the boss in their own backyard, every local leader wants to build himself, to be picturesque, a monument to be remembered for. Finally, I would like to express one of my thoughts, starting precisely from the fact that the responsible people in the local environment, regardless of the functioning of local administrations, the mayors, mayors and mayors, and that they are mainly run by political parties, of course, they can also be independent, but they are mainly run by political parties. That's why I think the political parties are also responsible if their leaders in local self-government are wrongly or illegally in possession of public money. So, I want to conclude that the audit is doing its job well, and despite the staff sub-optimisation, but the amount of irregularities in available public money at local level does not decrease, at least it does not fall to a significant extent. In all other areas, far better results are evident, far more visible. Unfortunately, these changes will not happen unless political parties are responsible for running local self-government leaders. This responsibility should be shown to a far greater extent in the fact that competent people are placed on the electoral lists, so competent candidates are obviously, among other things, on the findings of the State Audit that political similarity cannot compensate for the lack of competence in managing local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69230	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first came from the respected Marijan Skuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69231	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Dear fellow Members, I agree significantly with one part of your exposure, and the other part is not. First of all, I agree with the fact that the audit report must be respected and that the revision must, by its opinion, make a significant contribution to effective work, primarily on local self-government, means the municipalities and cities, which I would like to comment on. I would not very much agree with that finding that first of all we mayors and commissioners that we are truly irresponsible to our obligations and that we ignore the guidance of the audit. The problem is in local self-government exactly where, what you said, is there really a intention or is there a particular problem that maybe we don't have a single solution? And that's why the review is giving an opinion, and now someone thinks it should be, in the end, someone on the other hand thinks it should be different, and we don't have a uniformly defined conclusion or decision. I can say specifically from my part, we have the audit report and I send my professional services to a city that has unconditional findings of opinion and they come back and say, wait, what are you talking about, Mayor, they don't have the same thing that we don't have. They don't. Decisions and things that are your basis. They have unconditional opinion, we have a conditional opinion and we still have to copy and send to the local administration that we have more than they have. So that's where we should get along pretty well. One concrete example, you were talking about special audits. The audit was carried out to maintain the sorted roads units of local self-government, which is a clear example. You will be instructed every year from the revision that you have not made a record of your unclassified roads, that you do not have a description, type, quantity and estimated costs according to certain jobs and jobs planned during the year, that is, those we know absolutely impossible to do because that part of the procedure you need to do, for example if you have 100 kilometers of road, of which 50 kilometers is the ones that are not defined, it takes you 10 years just to narrow them down into some frames, and all 10 years you will get a conditional opinion because you haven't done what you need, and generally you can't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69232	The replica matches, the esteemed Nadia Jelesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69233	Excuse me. Unfortunately, the data presented in the report, in the State Audit Office's report, confirm that orders are being ordered on the ground, which is precisely the case with units of local or regional self-government, so that the guidelines of the State Audit Office are not respected. You have suggested in your replica that the revision does not act equally or that it applies different criteria to the audited entities. I couldn't agree with that. So I know that the revision treats all the users of public funds equally and that the principle of material importance of certain items is used in its work. But I agree with you that depending exactly on how materially significant certain illegalities and irregularities are to be given an opinion depending on it. So someone may have more materially to say less important remarks, he will get a more favourable opinion than one who may have only a few remarks, but they are materially very difficult, very significant.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69234	Second replica, respected Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69235	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I've been listening very carefully to your presentations, and I'd almost agree with everything. I just wanted to take a picture of your exposure to that local or regional self-government that I came from. So what matters is what you said there was no respect for the warrant and recommendations of the State Audit. And now, when we transfer it to local or county authorities in 2012 the Brod-Posavina County wrote off 10 million kuna of debt which was a guarantee to the banks. And you see this is the 2010 and 2011 report where the State Audit recommends a system of warning and surveillance precisely over its claims. So the revision recommended it, and unfortunately it resulted in the county having to write off 10 million kunas of debt. So there's really no State Audit. Furthermore, in the budget of the Brod-Posavina County, where a vote on the implementation of the 2012 budget was requested, it said that there was no revenue from concessions on the exploitation of mineral wealth, and we know that millions of cubic stones were exported from the Municipality of Podkrkallje, so zero kuna from the concession. So there's no surveillance as the State Audit says here, so there's no proper records based on local self-government units. The municipality of Podkkallje and County would also benefit if the State Audit had been followed. About sand and gravel from the Sava River in Brod-Posavina County that we don't talk. There is no document, therefore, of zero kunas of concession, and sand and gravel are being dug.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69236	The replica matches the esteemed Nadia Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69237	I agree with my colleague Grubisic that local self-government must have records of the concessions issued, but, of course, the units of local self-government must be kept in mind, the State Audit Office cannot. He can only conclude that something is not set up and, of course, that the local self-government unit is losing huge revenues from that title.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69238	The last replica of the esteemed Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69239	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelash, I don't know if you've been at any time or maybe you're the head of local self-government right now or you've done something like that, I'd like to know that because you've collapsed so much on local self-government, which is often the case here in the Croatian Parliament, and I'm going to say without reason. You said about 522 warrants for corrections of irregularities were given to local self-government. Well, that turns out to be one warrant per unit of local self-government. That's great, that's great, that turns out to be very good. I really don't see any reason to talk here about local self-government leaders, to show up really like some kind of people, you said people who do monuments don't know what. So all these decisions are made by the city council, that's what the citizens have decided. Remember that local self-government leaders were elected in the direct elections, that they were elected by citizens. And I really don't see any reason to get a little, a little bit up here and start following local leaders like they're some thugs, useless people who don't know anything about anything that doesn't work. I personally feel hurt by a team like my colleagues. My colleague Skvarić has already said some things that I agree with, and my services tell me they keep records of it and they work with the audit. And the revision really gives guidance year after year, sees some new irregularities, looks for repairs, and we try to fix it, but you have things you just can't do because of the law and there's no answer to it, and now it's either me or some colleague or colleague who's guilty. Let's not argue like that, it's not right for people who are in local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69240	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Nadia Jelesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69241	I did not go to local self-government unargumented, so I tried to make arguments, and that strongest argument is certainly a huge number of irregularities that the State Audit Office determines at the level of local self-government. But I said there's a local self-government unit where it's doing great. And I apologize to you personally if my argument made you feel hurt. I agree that I have also pointed out in my debate that the major problem of local and regional self-government is in an unprofessional administration, simply the local self-government units cannot afford because of the low fiscal capacity of a certain number of professional people. But what I also stressed in my debate is that it is the responsibility of political parties to try to outrun and run for local leadership of people who will be competent, not only politically similar, so also professional, that they know how to run local self-government units well. And I fully agree with you that there are laws concerning and must be applied to units of local self-government which have been unarranged and the State Audit Office notes this in its report. And I hope that we, as a legislative body, will correct these things that are not good and that make it impossible for units of local self-government to act better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69242	We continue with an individual debate, so I give the word to the respected Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69243	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So the Republic of Croatia, by the number of institutions and agencies, is ahead of the EU Member States and all of them are established, formed with the task of protecting the general interest and promoting national interests. Without many states he can, but without the State Audit, he can't because it's necessary. Many institutions do not operate in a way that behaves in the general benefit and interests of national interests. Many are bad, and in time they get worse. But there are good ones, and there are very good ones. But only one has made a huge step in her work and in a positive direction. Although the State Audit had enjoyed the grades of its work for years and had only individually experienced criticism, I was saying five, six years ago that the State Audit was an example of an institution not protecting general interests and national interests for years. The state audit was lulled into the swing political panergetics and she didn't see what she needed to see. She couldn't wake up when it was necessary. She was asleep when she had to react. No wonder, then, that some reports for the largest state-owned companies were not to be completed or published. And responsibility for today's situation which is not a bit bright, although many but also the State Audit. Today's deficit of the Republic of Croatia and public debt would certainly not have been so great if the State's revision of previous years had done what was expected of it and had achieved the tasks that had been set before it. Although he's wrong, everyone knows "the thought, the word, the work and the failure" The state's audit was most wrong by the failure. Those gaps cost the Republic of Croatia a lot. However, two years ago, the State Audit was transformed into the most professional, most organised and professional institution in the Republic of Croatia. And today we do not have to be ashamed of the State Audit, but we can really be proud of the State Audit and be happy to talk about the way they work. State audit is a school example of the country's relations, relations with general and national, interests of recent years, and I feel the need to make public statements. Many institutions and agencies in Croatia are exclusively cost places, but State audit is not a safe place to spend. Every kuna they've spent in recent years is justified. So much work has been done, so much professional, above all professional work and imagine the only institution that the state has prevented from filling out the job systems. And in such conditions they achieve these results. So how come you don't compliment that situation? Imagine 343 jobs needed to function, the most necessary functioning, and they only have 277. But be careful, most of them are auditors, authorised auditors, the most professional. It's only 30 and there's some employees who are in professional service. So more than one agency, an unnecessarily unnecessary agency has employees than a State Audit. And in a situation like this, these results come true. It's for public congratulation. But we can't even remember what it was like. That is why I would really like to commend this transformation in the way of work and dissatisfaction of certain particular political interests, but only professionally and professionally carry out my work. If only part of some agencies and other institutions were similar to today's State Audit Croatia would not be in difficulty at all, it would shine out of satisfaction and not be as unemployed as there are. But what concerns me about the findings I've read, a little bit and specifically, concerns me that the IRS has a conditional opinion. If someone shouldn't have a conditional opinion, then the IRS shouldn't. And then further complicated is the situation with the newly created pre-departure settlements what the State Audit opinion will be, for example, in some specific cases, in the participants of pre-gaining agreements, which the Tax Administration for the outstanding claim from 2010, the eleventh to which the taxpayer paid the tax on profits based on recorded income, and then the Tax Administration does not recognise that pre-departure agreement. She has to write off these claims and that's millions of kunas, and she's charged him a profit on those claims. And that is by forcing him to write off a creditor who is responsible and the guilty party exclusively for the situation, a creditor who has not paid his taxes, to whom tax debts are written off, he decides that he will not and how much he will not pay the creditors from the pre-determined debtor, is his decisive role. And then he had to pay the tax unpaid, and the one he didn't pay doesn't have to pay the tax. It's an unsustainable condition. How will the State Review refer to such a situation? And these are the situations you will have not tens but thousands. Many were forced to write off without affecting, unable even to control the religious list, unable to control whether a believer is a creditor because a creditor determines who is a believer. Imagine, the one who ruined everything he decides who's a believer. And now that believer who can't, the real believer, is charged a profit tax, all taxes are paid and he's forced to write off his claim. How can the state charge taxes on something that doesn't exist? And she doesn't charge for what's there and what she had to charge. So I'm interested, you'll be meeting with it, and maybe already, but this year anyway. This was about local self-government. There's no Mr. Hrg, I understand them. Sometimes, I ask my colleague how she collects garbage? She says illegal. It can't be any different. But it really can't be different. And how someone can charge, and how you also determine price differences unwarrantedly to charge costs, and how someone can determine the transportation of garbage by persons who do not exist and prescribe it, says in your home there are 6 people. No, they only have three. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And they're counting. And that's what you saw, counting. But I can't go any different because they don't have a legal standoff on how to level those criteria. How's the water consumption? What are the water losses? This is a terrible situation that no one will take seriously, make a serious analysis, and bring the most professional long - term solutions. The loss of energy is terrible, the loss of water leads to fear, and the less or less can be paid and the less paid. And then let's not say that total consumption, that's something that's going to lead to such a mess, and I think there's a lot to be done new. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69244	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First came Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69245	You have well noticed that the work of the State Audit year by year is getting better and we can all agree on that, which is one general progress in building institutions of their self-awareness and independence. I wouldn't say that if she'd ever been sleepwalking, she'd never slept, she'd say no to the police and the state's attorney's office, she'd have her appointments, and she'd have to recognize that. That's what she did more or less successfully. I'd agree if there wasn't a lot of uniformity, especially in the field, it certainly stands. But one positive assessment, especially with this report, I think they'll experience it from all sides both to the left and to the right and from the middle. What you're saying about local self-government units isn't true. Sometimes it is very difficult to stick to the law, it is also to the businessmen, but the way they are chosen does not esculate them with responsibilities but strengthens responsibility. And this garbage business has nothing to do with it, according to the Law on the Community Economy and no one is charging for it, no one should charge for garbage by the number of people in the household, but under the new Law on the Community Economy, they are obliged to weigh it. But here for years, I've been telling you what you're warning you that units of local self-government, or some leaders, are big and drastic differences, some are deafening. Let's say in the city of Zadar it's the right basic contract is the cheapest, it's all right, but it's finally always the most expensive because the additional works have also been determined by the revision for one market 16.5% for another 17.5% because here's the justification for finding archaeological findings and so on. In Zadar whenever you dig up, two inches deep, there's no problem that you won't find anything but the problem you'll find. Therefore, such justifications do not stand for not being respected and audited. And what's a sin, which is really in these difficult times and otherwise the money that's been collected from the sale of apartments where there's been housing rights, spent, audits from year to year, 10 years of reviewing it tells no one anything. Nor were the funds secured, and that money evaporated.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69246	The replica corresponds to the respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69247	My colleague Anticevic, you say the State Audit never slept. So by reading in detail all the state reports since the State Audit was formed today and following everything that happened in conversion and privatisation, I can't say, but if you want, I can change that, she didn't sleep but she had a snow eye on some situations. If the State Review had responded that it had to react never to hotels in Dubrovnik, they would not privatise the way they privatised for a handful of not dollars but kuna. Some took wealth, an earthly paradise in Dubrovnik for a handful of kuna, and it did not respond. In the largest state-owned company, the largest, where much has been done, which was not at the pride of the people, the findings of the State Audit were not to be published. It shouldn't have been finished because it didn't suit anyone. And what is it, then, but the eyes of the snow? We didn't see it. When you talk about the Law, it's the Law on municipal waste, if there's a Law on municipal waste, how can most different accounts? Now that's the finding of a state audit to even it out, it can't be, you say can't be calculated by the number of people but it's being calculated and I mean it in a bigger percentage than the law says and it's not good, it needs to be changed, it can't be different laws and different implementations for individuals and people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69248	A new replica of the esteemed Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69249	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your presentation, you have also problemed with the Financial Business Act and the pre-demand settlement when you claim that certain creditors will, in particular, lose their little credentials twice through this law, the first time they have been written off or perhaps better punished the second time their claims have been written off through a solution to implement the pre-fashion settlement and the first time is whether they have not charged their claims and on the other hand they have not paid the tax on profits because these claims have entered their incomes. So you also said that, and you commended the organization of the State Audit Office for the past two years, and I agree and support it, and therefore here I expect, on this very trail of praise for the work of the State Office for the revision of the audit report, the state budget and the users of the state budget for this year, i.e. for the fact that the Ministry of Finance and the proceeds which, through pre-departure agreements, write off and which are not small, which are likely to be about a billion kuna and which claims that the unpaid taxes have never been treated as income, are therefore neither the write-off of the tax liabilities that occur through the pre-departure settlement can be treated as expenditure. So, out of the billion kuna that will be written off through the pre-profit settlement procedure by the Ministry of Finance and that the state budget will not be incomed by the Ministry of Finance claims that they have shown it here. So, in my view, the 2013 deficit would then be reduced by a billion kuna, which I think the state audit must react to and therefore I say that in the 2013 report, the state office will indeed state it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69250	The replica corresponds to the respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69251	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, there will be great problems and difficulties in implementing this law, and here the role of state audit and their relationship with these situations will be very important. If the Ministry of Finance does not recognise the written claims as expenditure and these revenues are paid by profits, then the State, the Ministry of Finance should return the profit tax paid to those funds. And if he admits to spending, then he'll lose, he'll lose in the next year, and we'll affect the company's credit rating. Who likes to have a losing company? But it pleases those who are in debt and overturned everything from the believers, the suppliers, the workers, the states, they have deceived everything, they have deceived everything. A stranger told me three days ago, he married Croatia and said my dear Mr., I spent 40 million euros while I met him working in Croatia and now I have to start over, robbed him and those who robbed them now all and determined the fate of the other and they determine. One company yesterday I said has zero employees, 115 million kuna profits in 2012, 115 million in the year, has a capital return rate of 99.58% and goes to 2013 pre-profit settlement. So are we a normal country? We didn't. Is it normal for one who approves? No, but one is saved and destroyed by thousands. And they still have to pay it to the state, and know not to charge their own money and for the penalty still has to pay, and whoever didn't pay everyone for the punishment is giving him everything and what he had to pay, so that's, if the State Audit doesn't react there, I don't know who will besides the State's Attorney's office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69252	The Republic will now be presented by Hrvoje Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69253	Dear colleague Maric, meaning offered and here I fully agree with you that professional and professional work of the audit is really necessary. And I agree with you when you praise the work of the review over the past two years. And let me now tell you one piece of information that we all must really imagine is that the revision of the hospital system, so hospital institutions, before this revision in 2012 was made in 2002 and 2003, so the full 8 years of revision of this system has not been done. So, I think that information itself says how it was done and what it was done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69254	The replica corresponds to the respected Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69255	Thank you very much. Comrade Nekic, there is no time for a state audit to do everything and it is impossible. I'm surprised how she gets here in the first place and what she's done with so many little people, so much professional work, she's got a situation where she hasn't even gone in 10 years and 15. I don't justify it, but let's get the government to give them 50 state auditors and then call them why they haven't gone there in five years or four years, but don't put them in the agencies. Imagine, we have four members of the board of the newly established agency who won't work on anything, and here we can't get four state-owned new auditors. We have, when you mention health care, no one should have stayed at work one day, a 65-year-old doctor. No one. They were all evicted, unable to monitor their patient who had been in surgery three days before they were fired, had to go to surgeons who had been invested for years or surgeons or any other experts and had to leave the hospital immediately. At the same time, Mirjana Rakic, at the age of 66, is that human policy? Doesn't personnel policy fill in on this, fill in unnecessary agencies? Just one agency, I said 10 days ago, 300,000 kuna was spent on official trips, and it can't start an official car anywhere, let alone go on a business trip because there's no need. But we can build up there, and where there's a general state interest, we won't. What's the problem? And it takes years to train an authorised auditor to become an auditor, so it's not overnight for a political likeness to come in there and do authorized tasks of the State Auditor. Now, he can't do that, he needs both experience and knowledge, and that long-term experience and knowledge that's been gained for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69256	Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69257	Thank you very much. My colleague Marić, I agree with your observation of the hard and valuable work of the State Audit, but what I wanted specifically to point out in your speech and comment on it, therefore, is that it is very interesting to note and assess the State Audition that the Tax Administration has only yet, I would say only a conditional opinion, although the Tax Administration should be with, I would say, all of us expect it to be unconditional opinion. The assessment of this, of the obligations and of everything that is the dispute regarding the obligations of the debtor and of the peacemaker and of what you have said is, in fact, the exact result of what the financial audit determines. He says, yes, so when we transfer it to the IRS, they don't take effective action to collect claims. These days or today is the media inscription on the debt of a company of one billion and 800 million kuna, so the taxpayer of a billion and 800 million kuna, and here may be an opportunity to talk. In the case of a financial audit, the financial audit has established that the relevant records are not established and the bond data is not available, i.e. the debtors according to the types of income are not available. So that's what the IRS is all about. What you were saying about local self-government, and neither of us, nor I, who spoke in one replica about local self-government, wanted to accuse the leaders of local self-government, just wanted to fill that budget through their treasury, so local self-government. Here, I was talking about the export of stone to Brod-Posavina County that wasn't recorded, 0 kuna of concession. And what's the county and municipality income? But there's nothing out of it, not from gravel or sand. The Ship-Posavia County, which has 130km of the Sava River, has no kuna of gravel and sand. Well, that's too bad for that county. for that unit of local self-government. [[Intruding Stazic: Time of fellow Grubisic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69258	The replica corresponds to the respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69259	My colleague Grubisic, you've noticed very well, and I deliberately said that because the Ministry of Finance, or the Tax Administration, must be an example to everyone and without any failure. For example, when a person acquires a property based on a purchase contract, he submits within 30 days, he is obliged to submit a tax ruling. There are findings of State audits that tax administrations did not account for taxes. If there is no tax on real estate within 15 days, which has no reason not to be accounted for, why is it not for the authorised head of that establishment to be dismissed, why is it not to cancel that referent to which the case is assigned? No referent has been fired, no leader has been removed for this reason. And in concessions, I read the findings of the State Audits for concessions, so it could, and at least 200 people in Croatia get fired because of this finding. No one is defiled, let alone removed, and we cannot lead the state in this way, we cannot build a state that way because this is the way discrimination is done and that is how professional work and common sense and intelligence are belittled and insulted. It's an insult to common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69260	Now we'll hear the replica of Fran Matusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69261	Thank you. I think it is clear that this law has become an instrument of fraud. The instrument of state fraud and the instrument of credential fraud, which will certainly burden courts in the coming years, and the question of how the European Commission will react, because it is also about support, so it is about the fact that certain debts are forgiven and that in fact, it is indirect and support for certain companies and the question is how, perhaps even after a few years, the European Commission will react. It is a sad fact that society in general did not care about one expert who, after the law was implemented, made it very clear to all his shortcomings and the fact that he serves precisely those who wish to abuse their positions in the economy and to serve to actually support the like. Why didn't we get a list of those companies who were exempt from tax debts to this day, why aren't they publicly published? What's your amount, what's that amount? So should I support Judge Kolakusic, who with very sincere intentions revealed in fact all the frauds that were contained in this Act on Pre-accession settlement and I am sure that should have responded in time, that the Croatian Parliament should have completely changed its policy towards this problem and otherwise resolved the question of employees as they said, they said they wanted to reduce the number of unemployed. In the meantime, however, the number of unemployed came to 380 thousand. So what are the effects of this law? The primary intention was not to be unemployed anymore, but today we have 380 thousand unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69262	The replica matches Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69263	Thank you very much. It is indisputable that the Financial Liability Act and pre-determined settlements are not a law that protects believers but a law that protects debtors and debtors. The law could be freely called a law on deliberate damage to the Croatian economy. It so discourages those operators of economic activity, discourages entrepreneurship, it is a direct application of discrimination in the economy and remains all caught up in the uncertainty of the system and decides to move away from the activity. They'll be fooled. Why does Judge Kolakusic react in such a way, why the professors of university, why don't we talk about it? We cannot remain indifferent to the phenomenon that an increase in unemployment is due to pre-determined settlements because these very creditors who are forced to write off claims they were forced to fire workers, and those who are fired so that they have the least employees. Well, the biggest zero-employee company, but it's not a job rescue, it's an increase in unemployment. And a reasonable man cannot remain indifferent to such phenomena. Such phenomena of discrimination, economic apartheid, economic fascism. Who can remain indifferent to something like that? And it is known that Dante said that he who is indifferent to such conditions is immoral, and this is the law of immorality, for them are reserved the hottest parts of hell. That's why these people are reacting to reason so they don't end up where Dante has already predicted their place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69264	After this debate on the Law on Pre-departure settlement, which is not at all on the agenda, we return to the subject and I give the word to the Chief State Auditor Ivan Klesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69265	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would have decided to say a few words and I think it's necessary for the debate that we've already left, I'd say she's gone a bit. But I must say, given that one is set, I would say the time distance of certain audits by the State Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia. What was I gonna say about that? A certain thesis has been set that, for example, the State Review has led to an audit. In 2002, in 2003, she waited 8 years to perform a review of clinical hospital centres and general hospitals, which you now have in front of you. What's the reason? So we need to know and know the methodology of the work of the State Office for Auditing, and the methodology of the work of the State Office for Auditing the Republic of Croatia is consistent with the methods of working on state audits at EU countries and throughout the world. What do I mean by that? So I'm going to set things right as they are right now. Can the State Audit with 228 authorised state auditors, of which I will tell you that we have received 19 auditors in the last two years. 10 auditors are auxiliary auditors, so young people who are just moving into the business, and these 10 have some experience but not in the audit business. So it takes at least three years for these young people to be able to do their own audit work. So with 228 auditors, there is no possibility that the State Audit is working every year or every other, third year on the subject, and I stress that there are 14 thousand entities, I repeat 14 thousand entities in the jurisdiction of the State Audit Office. So it's absolutely not possible. That's why we're using that methodology I tried to explain to you now in this brief conversation, which is thematic audits like we did hospitals and clinical hospitals, so we've been doing national parks, county roads now doing sports communities. So you have to know the methodology of work, and then I think it'll be clearer for all of us. Because I recently heard in the public why when a problem arises in the Republic of Croatia when certain irregularities in a business that even have elements of a criminal offence are identified in some entity, then the question arises why the State Audit has not been there for two years. And we can't do it like that. If someone gets an unconditional opinion from the state auditors, according to our work methodology, it's those risks that I don't list, we're not going to work every year. So that's the reason. But anyway, we're doing our best, and we're always gonna try to do those subjects where we really have to show up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69266	Thank you. We have two replicas reported. First of all, the respected Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69267	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Cresic. So I'd say that in this last part of today's debate when we mentioned the Financial Business Act and the pre-bank settlement we didn't get away from the topic, so I'd say for what reasons. As far as I'm concerned, you'll be preparing for the revision of the state budget in a month if you haven't started, and we wanted to highlight two very important things through this debate. The first thing, whether State audits through the 2013 State budget revision of the tax write-off of about one billion kuna will be considered expenditure of the state budget, which would then increase the government budget deficit for 2014, is the first important thing. And the second is, will these write-offs that have gone towards individual debtors be considered state support, will that constitute state support? Because if this is State support, then such state support violates free market access and distorts competition in the Croatian economy, because clearly the debtors whose debt has been written off put into a privileged position. In this regard, we wanted to point out that this will be a very important issue that the State Audit Office will have to address when revising the national budget for 2013 in which year the Ministry of Finance wrote off over a billion kunas of taxes to many debtors in the Republic of Croatia, and it would be interesting to know which debtors this write-off refers to.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69268	The reply corresponds to the main state auditor Ivan Klesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'm not saying right now. I'd like to ask you on page 18 of our report, absolutely, we've described it all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69270	The second line is the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69271	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief State Auditor. I'm actually glad that you said what you said in your last three minutes in fact to a closing address. And I think there's a lot of things that are explained to those who think that review is something different from what it really is. The highest quality regardless of what time the political party was in power is that the State Audit has tried all along to stick to itself as a truly independent body. Second thing, colleagues and colleagues, we need to be aware how much quality laws we bring here will work so well on State audit. If we're making vague regulations, then even the State Review can't act unequivocally. Therefore, the State Audit has evolved as the regulations have evolved in the Republic of Croatia. Remember, in 2003, we had hundreds of sub-accounts in the state budget. With the establishment of the State Treasury, there is one account and a normal thing to do by amending the Budget Law, forming internal control and audits, the State Audit has become in a position to work. And what is the task of our representatives is to fight for this independence of the state audit, because it is the only way that guarantees that the State Audit will be able to do quality work. And never for the first time when I was an opposition parliamentary representative, nor when I was a minister, nor now as an opposition parliamentary representative, I have no idea to discuss the State Audit Report politically. Because if those of us who do this job are going to say that in a certain way we're discussing it that way, it's hard for this country. Because those people who do this job simply have to warn about the facts, the problems that if you don't correct them in this year will break your head in the next year. If you criticize this year, next year you come to power you're not able to fix it, it'll break your head. That's why I was saying that some of the findings in this report, please just one more sentence, unfortunately, are breaking our heads in the 2013/2014 budget. And that's why we have to be fair to ourselves and to Croatian citizens, and let politics go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69272	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69273	A report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2013 on audits carried out. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2013 and the audit reports shall be adopted. Please, who's in favour of the proposed conclusion? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 112 votes to accept the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69274	- The report on the effectiveness of the collection of income in units of local and regional (regional) self-government was submitted by the State Audit Office on the basis of Article 9. The State Audit Office Act. The proposal for an act was published on the website of the Croatian Parliament, and due to the extensiveness of the material in writing, each club of representatives received a copy. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Now I ask the chief state auditor, Mr. Ivan Klesic, would you like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69275	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the State Audit Office, the Office provided the Croatian Assembly with a report on the audit of the effectiveness of the collection of income in units of local self-government. Namely, the office carried out 21 performance audits covering all local units in 20 counties and the City of Zagreb. The subject of the audit was the activities of local units in the collection and control of the collection of their own income and claims for those revenues. As you know your own income local units are county, city and general taxes, municipal taxes, income from non-financial assets, municipal contributions and municipal fees and other revenues according to specific regulations and revenues from the sale of non-financial assets. The objectives of the audit were to assess the effectiveness of the collection, assess the effectiveness of the organisation and control of the collection, assess the effectiveness of the collection measures taken by local units, assess the effectiveness of the application of the legislative framework in the section relating to the collection of local unit income. Then assess the effectiveness of information measures on the importance and purpose for which income is charged and their impact on improving living conditions and meeting public needs in the area of a local unit. On the basis of the audit of the established facts, the Office assessed that the payment of revenues in local units of all counties is not effective enough and recommended to local units to improve the effectiveness of the collection of revenue. For 7 local units, the towns of Bakar, Čakovec and Kutina and the municipalities of Blato, Drnje, Djelekovec and Hlebine, the office estimated to be effective in making the payments. In order to increase the efficiency of the collection, the Office proposed, among other things, the systematic and continuous implementation of the prescribed collection measures for full and timely collection of revenue with the aim of avoiding limitation and write-down of claims, the calculation and collection of tightening interest, with a view to increasing the likelihood of payment of claims within the deadlines of maturity. With the Tax Administration, negotiate an obligation to inform the local unit, at least once a year, of the tax rulings issued, of the bonds which did not settle have an obligation to the amount of outstanding liabilities and of the measures taken to collect them. To rent commercial premises through a public tender and at a market price, and to continuously publish data on the free commercial premises to be leased, taking into account publication costs. Then, agree on the obligation of a legal person to collect income from the sale of dwellings on which there was a tenant right to inform the local unit at least once a year about the eligible and unsatisfactory claims for the apartments sold, customers who failed to pay dues to the amount of outstanding liabilities, the measures taken to collect them, paid flats and paid funds into the state budget. Then make a decision on the billing and collection of municipal contributions and monumental rents and, in accordance with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions, introduce a charge of taxes on the use of public areas, taxes on holiday houses and taxes on a company or name. To supplement the provisions of the Law on the municipal economy in the section relating to a clearer definition of the date of the start of the obligation to pay the municipal compensation, for example, the date of the authorisation of the competent authority for the use of the building, the date of the purchase or the gift contract, the date of the power of the succession solution, the date of the lease or lease contract. Next, amend the legislation relating to the fiscalisation of cash in the part which determines the jurisdiction in order to establish the obligation to supply data for the calculation and collection of taxes on consumption to the tax authority concerned. Consistent the decision on municipal compensation with the provisions of the Law on the municipal economy, the decision on cemeteries with the provisions of the Law on Cemeteries and the decision on municipal taxes with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of February 2007. It shall then adopt acts governing the management of cemeteries, conditions and criteria for the payment of compensation for the award of the cemetery and the annual fee for the use of the cemetery and the keeping of the grave records in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Cemeteries. To collect from tourist communities in the area of local unit data on the assets of the residence tax and to take measures to obtain income from the tourist tax belonging to the local unit under the House Tax Act. To obtain the necessary information from the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency to determine whether public communications network operators use land owned by a local electronic communications infrastructure unit and if they use them to take measures to obtain revenue from the right of way. Then supplement the provisions of the Law on Real Estate Tax and the Law on Inheritance in such a way that courts and other bodies are obliged to deliver their solutions and decisions to local units or to deliver the rightful solutions to the competent tax authority. To amend the concession legal provisions in such a way as to regulate in a simpler and more effective way the concession system and to monitor the payment of concession fees, and that complete and timely data have all stakeholders, in particular those who make revenue from concession fees. Systemically implement measures to inform the population of the importance and purpose for which budget revenues are charged and their impact on improving the overall living conditions in the area of units of local self-government. The State Audit Office estimates that the implementation of these recommendations would increase compliance with the laws, regulations and effectiveness of the collection of income of local self-government units. Since the recommendations apply not only to local units but also to other state bodies, the State Audit Office also submitted the report to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Administration, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the Ministry of Tourism, after the end of the audit, with a view to taking action to carry out the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69276	I thank the chief state auditor, Ivan Klesic, and I also apologize to him for mispronounced his last name at the announcement. I ask if the Committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the CNS, a respected representative, Vice-President of the House Milorad Batinic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69277	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, state auditors with associates and associates. It is always interesting to discuss the reports that we receive from you in previous discussions last year, as I will always point out this is an extremely valuable document, even if it is only a matter of reviewing the effectiveness of the collection of income in local and regional self-government units, an excellent indicator of the situation in cities, municipalities, districts regarding ability, teaming, how individual units of local self-government work. This report sets out certain recommendations as well as how to improve the functioning of local self-government units, indicating certain possible improvements in legal solutions. I hope, as I said in previous years, that I would believe that you are delivering these reports to the competent ministries in which they are, that certain recommendations can be found from the Ministry of Finance, Administration, Regional Development, Justice are right, because in these recommendations you have presented certain improvements or certain problems in the functioning of local and regional self-government units. The report is in itself an extremely valuable substance, above all, from tables where we have from the number of inhabitants, the number of households, the number of residents employed in local self-government units, and also what is important is both incomes and receipts in local self-government units, or simplified on the budgets of local self-government units. You have also made certain recommendations aimed at improving the functioning of these units of local self-government, of course this report, in addition to the regular audit report you carry out each year, would be a good addition means that you give a single report integrally, this report, an audit report, and it would also be interesting what you have carried out and what you always implement in one part of the units of local self-government, one segment of efficient management of unclassified roads. Then, of course, you would see that the original tax revenues defined by the Law on the financing of units of local self-government are added, and you would see the possibility and way of future functioning, the future structure, or with the purpose of decentralisation that we are talking about. You would also see which units of local self-government all of these recommendations that you have listed in your audit report, which now and which is more than a very small number of units has been assessed I would say to your terminology unconditionally, they all have less or less conditional opinions, meaning how capable they are to do so and to what extent they are limited by the number of employees or all of them talking about the revenues themselves in units of local and regional self-government. I hope that one such material will practically think that you have everything, it would be very interesting to have it as a base, a basis that we can discuss more concrete and quality what is a topic can always be more or less in each item of the agenda that is being discussed here we always get attached to that part. What I would also like to say, I must admit, I am a little surprised by certain qualifications to say, recommendations, that is, these crosses to be more precise in certain environments, because it speaks of the number of recommendations and what was wrong. I see the efficiency of the collection of my own income. I don't think there's a local self-government unit where you didn't give a recommendation, so it's better to do better. Also, what is extremely important to me and I was pointing out in this report when we had a revision of the previous year, means one recommendation to the tax administration itself, which in most local self-government units collects the original tax revenues for local self-government individuals. I know from my own experience that we've been looking for exactly what you're looking for and what every unit of local self-government should have when it comes to city taxes, that we have a database, that we have an up-to-date record and that we can respond in a timely manner. Unfortunately, for the third term, I have failed to agree with the tax administration, so I say once again that I appeal to you to make a recommendation to the Ministry of Finance in this matter, I can agree in one part of the interpretation relating to the Tax Code that it is a tax secret, but I cannot agree that it is a tax secret if the tax secret is known by city officials who are in some way state officials, meaning, and certain tax officials know it, which are less, so to speak, let's say at the rank of some sort of liability and the work they do itself. As far as certain city taxes are concerned, I know from experience that certain environments are well noted, as regards the very communal fee that is exclusively urban income or municipal income, they simply do not charge. Especially those environments do not also charge the test fees, there is also a recommendation of yours which I support, amending the Law on the Communist Economy. However, the same question arises why do they not charge those revenues? In particular, I know a number of municipalities in the Varazdin County that have income per capita at an annual level of 300 to 600 kuna. And I can understand that, they just don't have anyone to charge from. I also know that certain units of local self-government that have 5 and some even 10 times the revenue, in the same way, I would say savings to my citizens, and they don't charge it either, so we can't share the responsibility equally for each other or for the other. As far as I was concerned, I was just saying, certain recommendations, I absolutely support, and I can also tell you some of the experiences that we had in the field of local self-government units, that's, above all, electronic communications, we simply don't have a database to communicate, or contact the authorities, and that we could also charge that part of the income. I hope that in the future, that will change exactly everything with a goal of increasing their incomes on that basis. As far as these tables are concerned, I'm not going to comment, and I also said that it would be extremely important to substrate the competent ministries. What I can't agree with, especially for my environment, is informing citizens. There is a recommendation that I should better inform my citizens, simply exits the monthly town paper, websites are updated daily, via radio stations citizens are informed, every village has an ad board where practically everything that is important for informing citizens have an insight and daily communication in the city's reception office can get valid information. Now, the question is, to what extent are certain citizens, they want to know certain information? She's available to them, the question is if they want to be informed. It's something of course that you can't give an answer, it's theirs, but it's also especially this part, especially now as regards certain legal solutions that we're simply applying, aware of exactly the part where I said that certain units, are mainly about some smaller municipalities, poorer, poorer cities that simply don't have financial opportunities on a daily or even weekly update of data on their websites, let alone that they might issue a certain message as an informer that they can inform their citizens. With this note going to every household and each household is monthly informed, from budget, programme, activity, meaning every kuna spent in the budget, they are informed, they know what it was spent on. But I'm saying it should also be brought into the context of what I was saying about income itself, is it 500 kuna or by someone as many as 8 and 10 thousand kuna per capita. And finally once again appeal to you, that's why I'm saying this from this pay phone, all of your recommendations earnestly, please send to the relevant and competent ministries to get acquainted with it in detail, and I would also like to ask you to agree to an integral document on the functioning of local self-government units, meaning from income, from all of these statistical indicators you have, and I also hope that this document, that it will also come to our assembly benches. I'll support your report with a desire to get that document integrated as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69278	Thank you. Damir Cain has applied for the Independent Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69279	I didn't know they'd be moving so fast, but we're going in this order. When we talk about the revenues and receipts made to the local unit for 2011/2012. The year then we see that the total revenue achieved in 2011 was 21.8 billion kuna and in 2012 21 billion kuna and 992 million kuna. On the other hand, the revenues of the state or rather state expenditure amounted to kuna 118.7 billion. So, on the 5.3 kuna that would belong to the state, the local self-government belongs to 1 kuna. The total revenues and receipts of the city of Zagreb, County and Cities were reached by 158.8 million kuna or 0.9% more compared to 2011 while the revenues of the municipality were achieved by 58.6 million kuna or 1.7% less compared to the previous year. According to local government levels, 39.4% of all incomes and receipts for 2012 were achieved by cities, 29.1% of which the city of Zagreb, 16.1%) of the county, the municipalities although the number has them most participate in revenues and receipts with 15.4%. And I'm just saying that according to the amount of revenue achieved, the largest number of local units of them 338 or 58.7% achieved revenue, the incomes of less than 10 million kuna, between 10 and 50 million kunas of income and receipts were achieved by 171 local units or 29.7%, and 64 local units or 11.1% achieved income and incomes from 50 to 500 million kuna. So the only city in Zagreb, the town of Rijeka, the city of Split in 2012 made more income than 500 million kuna. When we talk about the revenue achieved and the receipts of local units for 2012 I will put only emphasis here on the County of Istria. These revenues were achieved in terms of a total of €459 million without utility, in such a way that tax revenues amounted to €667 million, tax and income tax of €525 million, real estate tax 61 million, county income, municipal etc. 80 million kuna, helping 146 million kuna, income from the property of 136 million kuna, from administrative fees 336 million kuna, etc. I repeat, so 20 counties plus the City of Zagreb achieved income of 21 million 992 kuna or 5.3 kuna goes to the state 1 kuna remains local self-government. What is interesting is that on 31.12.2011, the units of local self-government had 8.6 billion kunas of unpaid income. With $5.4 billion, these were business revenues, and the rest of the property sales didn't come true. Of the 5.4 billion, the majority refers to administrative fees and utility fees. The most unpaid revenue is in Zagreb 3.2 million kuna, Split-Dalmatia County a billion 200, Primorje-goransko-goransko 663 million kuna and in the County of Istria 536 million kuna. This depends largely on the economic situation in which our economy is, above all, our citizens. As time goes on, especially when we have citizens in mind, because of the increase in their personal indifference, I believe that these ratios or those ratios can change radically upwards. I said that the proceeds in the County of Istria amounted to these mentioned billions of 469 and a billion and 500 million kuna respectively. 6 areas of audit stated, when we talk about this collection means the collection where they notice the lack of payment of their own income, then the collection of the database actually goes to the accounting records, etc. And what I'm talking about Istria, I couldn't believe that by all these points, a total of 6, the worst score was the city of Buzet, and from the municipalities of Kršan and Oprtalj. So the city of Buzet was in general negative with the municipality of Kršan and Oprtalj, other cities had irregularities in 3, 4 or 5 measures. It should also be said that the claims of the County of Istria in 2010 were even higher than in 2011, 2010 amounted to 597 million kuna and generally local self-government in 2010 sought 8.9 billion kuna, 2011. 8.6 million kuna. No matter what, and bearing in mind these very relations within that 21.9 billion kuna or nearly 22 million kuna to be more precise 21 billion 992 million kuna 281 thousand 162 kuna means. The city of Zagreb has 6.4 billion kuna, or I said 20.1% of total revenues. Unfortunately, in the county, only 16.1%) and as far as these municipalities are concerned, we're here at 15%. The state, regardless of its maturity, is for one radical decentralisation but also for one reorganisation of the entire structure whether it is a social, whether it is a state administration, whether it is education, health, and local self-government. As far as this audit report is concerned, we have nothing to add, nothing more important would be able to track it locally, and believe that there will be a change in economic situation and that the economy and citizens will come into a situation so that they can monitor or meet their obligations more painlessly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69280	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club will speak Đurđica Plancic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69281	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the respected chief state auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the State Audit Office Report on the audit carried out and the effectiveness of the collection of income of units of local, or regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia. According to the pre-defined criteria, the audit was the activity of local units to collect and control the collection of their own income and the claim for those revenues. The State Audit Office is a truly large business involving all 576 units of local, regional self-government in the period from March 2012 to March 2013. Although the activities and data for 2010 and 2011 have been analysed, the results of the audit by our court are still very current. More than 3000 pages of the Report show the basic data on each local unit generated by its own income by species, claims by species and maturity, and finds and recommendations for increasing the efficiency of the collection of revenues collected by county and individual units of local self-government. It should certainly be commended to the State Audit Office for a very thorough work in which the efforts of all the district offices have been made. The report also contains indications of local units on the findings of the audit that give us the reasons for the irregularities that have occurred. The audit results give us answers to questions. First, whether the collection of your own income is effective. And secondly, if it is not what should be done to increase efficiency. Total revenues and receipts of all local units in 2011 were made at €21.9 billion and were lower by 3.5% compared to those achieved in 2010. In doing so, the biggest drop in revenue is in the municipalities of 5.5%, then cities 4.3%, smaller city Zagreb 2.9%, and least county 0.3%. The data on the further reduction of the total revenues of local units are not surprising in view of the trend in the reduction of economic activity, as well as the growing shortages in the state budget or county budget. The question, therefore, of which more effective collection of its own income becomes a first-class issue for each local unit. The total own revenues of local units in 2011 amounted to 6.9 billion kuna and decreased by 2.1% compared to that achieved in 2010. In the structure of total income, their own incomes take part with 31.4%, which is different by county. Their participation is the largest in Istria County 48.4% and at least in Krapina-Zagorje 18.8%. Local units at the end of 2011 show claims of 8.6 billion kuna, which is also 3.4% lower than in 2010. Thus, the share of claims in total revenues was reduced from 39.2% to 36.8% at the end of 2011. However, the ratio of the claims made and the total own revenue is much more unfavourable, and the claims in certain counties are more expensive than the total annual revenues. The city of Zagreb is 43% higher and in Split-Dalmatia County it is 62.3% higher than its total income. Most local units during 2011 made a write-off of the claim. It should be noted here that only in 2012 did the Government adopt the Regulation on criteria, criteria and procedure for deferral of payments, payment of the debt, and sales, write-off or partial write-off of the claim, which finally gave local units a substantial ease in the process of collection and write-off of claims. A number of units did not charge or charge legally tightened interest on bonds that do not pay obligations within the maturity period. As I have already said, paying for my own income is a vital question of the functioning of local units, so we are surprised by the fact that as many as 49% of local units have not introduced all the revenue they could and should have made according to their regulations. Even 159 or 27.6% of them took absolutely no collection measures, 90 or 15.6% of all available collection measures only made warnings. Incomes that were not charged for various reasons were grave fees, monumental rent, holiday home tax, income from residence tax, compensation for the right way, and very often income from renting or selling business premises or land. The audit identified errors, irregularities in most local units from failing to collect individual revenues, then failing to organise and control the collection of revenue, keeping accounting records in databases, and almost all in insufficient information on the importance of public income, their purpose and use. It is necessary to single out and commend the rare local units to whom the State Audit has not found any objections and which effectively collects its revenues, which are the cities of Bakar, Čakovec and Kutina, and the municipalities of Blato, Drnje, Djelekovec and Hlebine. The State Office concluded that the collection of revenues is not effective, and that there is still plenty of room for it to increase both by the legislator to improve regulatory and local units themselves to take the necessary measures. And now I will look back, with the aim of sending units of local self-government to take action The Office of State Administration has made 2404 recommendations that will be of great benefit to them in harmonising their business with the regulations and increasing the efficiency of the collection. I'll look back on the most frequent irregularities and problems the report warns us about. The collection of county, urban and municipal taxes was transferred by most units to the IRS. The findings of the review show that cooperation in this relationship is not satisfactory. Namely, the Tax Administration does not provide units of local self-government with analytical data on debtors, issued solutions and collection measures calling for tax secrets. Units thus do not have the ability to influence effective tax collection, so they have not taken appropriate measures. Despite the sometimes agreed obligation, the Tax Administration does not supply analytical data because it represents an additional job and burden. There was a problem of poor tax on holiday homes, primarily due to difficulties in identifying the owners of these houses, their OIBs and their address. Although there is a prescribed obligation for the owners of these houses to regularly report to the tax authority their property they do not do so and local self-government units do not have the instruments to force them to do so, so they are able to do so in different ways. In doing so, the big problem is also the uncharging claims resulting from frequent changes in the owners of these properties, and the Tax Administration refuses to write off outdated claims without a clear indication of previous owners. The tax on inheritance and gifts also identified the problem of determining the debtors because there is no obligation for public notaries to provide local units with solutions on inheritance and donations. It is also the same problem when collecting taxes on road motor vehicles and vessels. The bodies where registration is carried out shall also not have such obligation to provide information on the owners of vehicles and vessels. The audit regularly and also in this report finds that most local units lease their business premises without compensation and without carrying out public tenders, contrary to the provisions of the Law on the Rental and Sales of Commercial Space. And most often to associations and other non-profit organizations. The strict interpretation of this regulation creates constant problems for local units. In an attempt to remove this misunderstanding from the associations of cities, it has already proposed additions to this law, under which its provisions would apply only to market-based entities. companies and craftsmen, while local units should be left with the freedom to assign, under softer criteria, a space to work for non-profit organisations that their partners are in the field of public service, social care, social care, culture, sport and other areas. The calculation and collection of revenue for the disposal of waste units of local self-government has largely been entrusted to companies owned by them. Often without an adequate agreement on mutual relations and without obligation to pay these revenues into budgets, they do not have information on the amount of obligations of citizens and the measures taken. There are also problems in the payment of municipal fees and contributions due to the lack of knowledge about the sale of real estate, the change of owners or users, the termination of the work of a company or crafts company, but there is also a problem because the Law on the municipal economy does not specify the time of the creation of the payment obligation and the compensation. Countys face the problem of collecting revenue from the compensation for the use of maritime goods. The vessel's eyewitness, or the yacht's register, leads the port captains. However, they are often not up-to-date, nor are the data clear to the counties due to the development of a solution. A solution in which these eyewitnesses in port captains lead towards the vessel's berth has not proved to be a practical solution. Local self-government units face huge operator resistance in an effort to collect revenue from the right path. Most often, the operator did not create a water cadastre or ask that the local self-government unit prove that these are public areas owned by them, which is certainly not easy to fill. So here it is necessary to insist on the active role of the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications and the strict application of the Law on Electronic Communications. Finally, the revision has shown that legal regulations need to be developed on the one hand, and on the other hand, local unit leaders need to take serious action on better organisation of their services, and all to improve the payment system. The rules to be completed are as follows: the Law on the municipal economy, the provisions on fiscalisation in cash, the legal provisions on the registration of boats and yachts, the Law on the hire and sale of commercial space all in a way that is binding means that tax authorities deliver appropriate data to units of local self-government, then the Law on Inheritance and the Law on Real estate Taxation, so that both courts and public notebooks are obliged to deliver solutions and decisions. Finally, the law should somehow oblige all competent authorities to publish any changes relating to the transport of real estate, the establishment and termination of the work of companies and crafts. On the other hand, the tasks of the units of local self-government are to introduce the payment of all the revenue for which they are given legal opportunities, to review the possibility and economy of taking on an independent charge as many of these revenues as possible, to take all the required measures for the collection of claims, and to prescribe and apply the criteria and criteria and procedures for the postponement of the payment, the payment of the debt and the sale, write-off or partial write-off of the claim. Continue to work on updating the bond database in its area, with the Tax Administration to negotiate the obligation to supply analytical data, to establish land records and other assets in their possession in order to obtain as much income as possible from the lease and sale of assets. Continue to improve the information system, bring and implement the population information programme on the collection and purpose of budget revenues, spending and impact on meeting public needs as one of the very important instruments for better payment. Although most local units estimate that there are not enough professionals to collect and control the collection of income, leaders should also consider the benefits of better teaming and the duration of further education of their employees. It is also necessary to improve cooperation between local units and state authorities that have data and exchange them with each other. Finally, none of the reports are self-intentional but should serve as a basis for analysis of the situation and for taking measures to address the identified problems. So we hope that this report with all information and recommendations will be a good basis for responsible leaders to take the necessary measures to make the revenue collection more effective as a basis for the more efficient functioning of themselves but also of society as a whole, and therefore the SDP Club will accept this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69282	Thank you. We have registered two replicas, first respected Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69283	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I've been following your debate closely, and I agree with most of the thinking and that part, especially where you offer certain solutions, but I've come forward because you mentioned two municipalities from my county, these are Drnje and Djelekovec, who can be examples of this, but this shows how here our unit of local self-government is concerned, how they care that these budgets are filled, that they solve all kinds of problems, so those who ask them to do so but are also facing countless obstacles in their actions. So if they charge and secure, they go into some capital project realization, then there goes that famous public procurement, and there's immeasurable, now it's not enough for those professional complainants to move forward... Now at the beginning, by the time they lift up, already these measures have perfected their mechanism that it's terrifying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other thing is that I noticed and that's what you were saying about that fee for associations, for associations, and there you are really agreeing to that part. So these associations come all the way into these units of local self-government to look for funds and they should be supported so that they can function because they keep their lives above these spaces and cultural and sports and all kinds of things, and I think that they really are of immeasurable importance and, in any way, make it difficult for them in the legal procedure that they can't achieve, I think that this is difficult and should be kept in mind and in this sense, and this proposal of a legal solution is certainly welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69284	Second replica, the esteemed Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69285	Dear Vice President, distinguished auditors and colleagues respected. As far as the revision is concerned, we have nothing special to say, people are doing their job correctly, I can only commend it here as the former head of the local administration and people who come to the audit because they are correct and do professionally their job. However, the point is what you were talking about, which is what problems local people who run local units both local and regional self-government and we need to find ways to help them, because here is Mr. Milinkovic, and you have highlighted several examples where local administration leaders are powerless and you know it from your own example what you could do and what opportunities you had for realising and collecting certain old ones. There's not a local leader, there's a lot of them here, and there's a lot of them in the sitting parliament, who don't want to charge because he wouldn't be normal, wants to charge his income, but what tools are available to him, and what he can do to get a review or someone on the side, so he's giving him a lecture and they're doing it by law again and doing what they have to do. But we are now responsible as parliamentary representatives and the government of the Republic of Croatia that we should propose, which we need these experiences that we have from the local administration, you have listed here a few that we now have to potentiate and try to get rid of because they charge space to maritime good associations where there is a general mess where nothing is recorded, where units, for example. Countys have no means at all to go to solve the quality of maritime well-being because you have to book it, first register it and book it from cadastrian to court and then there's a general mess and now you ask that leader to charge it, he didn't charge for maritime good. That's tragic. That's why I think and I appeal that here you and everyone here at the head of the local administration have to potentiate the change of such laws and we help the leaders of local self-government because we know how much trouble we had when we were there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69286	Thank you. Now we have exactly that much time to hear the positions of the HDZ Club, so I invite the respected representative Tomislav Klaric to come for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69287	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, state auditors with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we have heard at the previous agenda points, which means a report on the audits carried out. Here in this report, in an audit of the collection of income in units of local and regional self-government, I will agree with all those who highlighted the importance of the audit findings in that sense of improving the mode of work and in units of local self-government, regional self-government should do something more effectively in the work of the ministries. Why can we say that the good side of this report is that we have in one place an analysis of the entire region of the Republic of Croatia in 21 counties, 127 cities, 429 municipalities, 577 units of local and regional self-government. What is important in this report, and perhaps is often neglected, is data from the tables, and I think that all those who have considered abolishing the units of local self-government in criticism of local self-government should take a little closer look at these tables, which clearly state how many units of local self-government, how many employees in these units of self-government and what every analysis is saying since the formation of local self-government units and today's establishment here in the analyses that we've been doing in the Primorje-Gorski County, all the units of local self-government that have come out of the town of Rijeka, have formed on their own some and up to 990% have increased their incomes with no significant increase in the number of employees in the area. As far as budget users and local self-government units are concerned, see Table 6. The table shows that almost 526 local self-government units have up to 5 budget users, it is likely mainly children's kindergartens, city libraries, institutions of the type where small units of local self-government can improve the quality and standard of life and standards of their citizens. While the rest of these include larger cities, there are up to 40, or larger cities, county and county headquarters. What is certainly worrying is that even though the parallel data in 2010/2011 was created here. where there were no major income differences between 2010/2011, mainly these differences are reduced to some 99 % and somewhat. It will be interesting to see the data in the next audit reports where the current situation will be compared. I with whatever leader and colleague from local self-government units in the area and the Primorje-Gorski County and other counties I have spoken to, all of them, and I say that it has never been worse than it is today. On the issue and pressure on local self-government units, by imposing further obligations that these units of local self-government will have to respect, and by taking over and reducing the income we surely have. As for the recommendations of the State Audit, they are good, useful in any case, and we need to respect them. I don't think you should, someone's here, it seems a colleague Gjurkovic mentioned or your predecessor mentioned those crosses in the table, which units of local self-government didn't get any recommendations or instructions. Otherwise, the audit finds that there are 2404 recommendations throughout the area. This does not mean that these units of local self - government are ineffective or that they did not want to, that is, try to comply with all these regulations. However, a whole series of inherited situations simply restricting local self-government units from effectively charging all their incomes. I've already talked here about catastra problems, and here in the review report mentions the service of the routes of electricity and telecommunications networks. A large number of units of local self-government are simply unable to collect such revenue because neither operators nor we in the areas of local self-government units have such information as to how accurate the construction of a network of ownership of these roads is, therefore, a totally unsettled situation on a large, large number of local self-government units and it is simply impossible to avoid overnight, without obtaining any such opinion or such guidance. I can speak freely that this is so future here, you have also seen in the report that between those three cities that have not received any practical opinion or guidance, we have already made a meaningful and effective payment, but I am not saying this for reasons to praise someone but for the very reason that it is a difficult and long-term path to this goal. So it can't be done overnight regardless of its findings, regardless of all the effort within local self-government units, without any major problems and any advances that should be done before. Here, you were talking about charging the utility and income units of local self-government. I am proof that it is impossible to achieve and make a better charge for you and this Law on the legalization of illegally built objects. So you see how many tens of thousands of requests are for payment, for legalizing illegal units of the local self-government unit. I responsibly claim to you today, no matter how much we work in the field, we do not have accurate data on the areas of family housing units in the area of local self-government so that we can precisely calculate the municipal fee. Simply for the reason that the founding state was such that it occurred, already on built objects that were shown on the surface to significant extensions, to additions, to new constructions of which there is no accurate record. In order to achieve some precise record requires significant costs that in smaller units of local self-government are simply impossible to do in a short period of time, it is to record the air, GIS maps, complete processing of the entire terrain, and then record and measure each facility in particular in the areas of units of local self-government. Here you have touched the holiday house, we have a situation like this, and also in the European Commission's report on wealth, let's call it, our people in real estate. Some have two, three residential houses that they have inherited from their parents or not. Do they consider such an object a holiday home if someone lives in a bigger city, and during the summer, they are temporarily staying in this inherited house, which is the fact that it is? Here in the field we have such situations, today people come up with some kind of electricity payment where it is seen that they only paid for the flat and as trying to prove that he doesn't stay in such a place, he doesn't use such an object, he simply needs to educate all our citizens because they simply don't know all the problems. What is a particular danger and what will happen to us in the coming years, and it will be seen, I am convinced, although it is certain that the State Audit could not do this job to make an audit in 2012/2013, I think that these indicators, and especially this 2014 will be very, very bad with the basis of the income, i.e. the budget of the units of local self-government. We abolished the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, yesterday also mentioned Gorski Kotar Fužine what is going on up there, the damage is enormous both on the infrastructure and on the facilities. What will those units of local self-government manage to do when we recently took those revenues on which they were counting on credits from here in the Parliament? It also mentioned here the relationship between the IRS and the data they provide to local self-government units. In a few years, we've been fierce enough to say not to fight, but to look for certain data in the end, and we're going to say it ourselves. And when we left alone only then, with two employees in two departments, we simply managed to earn all the tax revenue we needed because we no longer went through the IRS to collect it. And finally, why pay those 5% based on a contract with the IRS when those 5% can enter the budget of local self-government units. What remains to be charged by the Tax Administrations, and I think that there is no question more after the introduction of the fiscal registers, it is a consumption tax because I think there is a very effective part of the collection of these revenues. Here's what we have to say about the company's problem. A large number of smaller units of local self-government have shared some kind of municipal society with larger cities and municipalities, and I think that's the big problem. If you look at the findings of the magazine of the city of Rijeka, and I will touch the city of Rijeka because I live there and I know the problem well, the folk proverb always says "Whoever is stronger, that quacks" those 50 and something percent in the decision-making means exactly what you can read in the find of the review for the city of Rijeka, so it happens that we other co-owners of these commercial companies don't have too much or even the power to decide what will be done with these funds. And here we see that part of the funds that we show in our budgets, which are calculated in the price for the development of municipal societies, is only shown in our budgets that this money never enters our budget, but remains in the accounts of companies and utility companies, and then they develop with these funds according to the direction of the majority owner and I think that part should be processed in particular and should be dealt with in particular. Because it can't be some kind of utility company with the resources that comes into the price of development, and it's being charged in the area of some local self-government unit with this money baratate in a way that lends to some extra companies or a city that's in co-ownership for some ten jobs, and we know the Law on the municipal economy for which these jobs are intended. This is not a criticism in the city of Rijeka, but a problem that is obviously not only ours down in the coast but probably in the wider area of the Republic of Croatia. So here's what to say in the end about the audit finding, you could go a lot in detail what and how and what difficulties are all in the field. However, one of the interesting data throughout the Republic of Croatia of all 577 units of local self-government including cities, municipalities and county 320 units of local self-government have up to 10 employees. So that part of the story is the entire field of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of their development or not development, on their incomes or incomes, but those up to 10 residents in these 320 units of local self-government are a service to their citizens. Is if you look at any part of the Republic of Croatia and even the most underdeveloped of these units of local self-government are some kind of development generator, building if nothing else maintains any unclassified roads, improving the standards of their citizens, and with the minor resources they have. While the former large centers were exclusively vacuum cleaners and people and money from that wider area and they only did what was in their interest while everyone around them were some kind of tails where they invested if invested on the basis of some political will. Anyway, here's what I'd like to say to you. I thank not only you, because you are here in Zagreb, but all your people on the ground. Each of their remarks and these 2770 and how many instructions and recommendations you made. I don't experience them, and I don't think anyone should view them as any kind of criticism because these are useful advice on how to improve our work on the ground, how to improve efficiency and how to be as good as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69288	Thank you. We've reported several replicas, but unfortunately we don't have time for them right now. We'll hear them at 3:00. I'm setting a break. Thank you. It's a 13,28 o'clock meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69289	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We have replicas of the presentation of counterparts Tomislav Klaric, Josip Boris. He's gone. He's losing his right. Jasen Mesic Thank you. [[/Intruder Mesic: I withdraw the replica. Thank you.]] Stephen Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69290	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I almost pulled the same thing because it was a distance, so we forgot a little bit about it, and here I am with my colleague Gjurkovic, but I remembered, because I realized that my colleague Klaric really knows this problem. From your debate, it was possible to read how far you are directed, because of course when you come from that area and face it daily. But I was particularly impressed by the alleged that some units of local self-government have increased revenues to 900%. It is indeed one piece of information, including this information that I am particularly pleased that three municipalities from my county of Drnja, Djelekovec and Hlebine are the most effective on that list. That is true of the one with the importance and concern of these people and their finances, but of course also to improve the quality of life from those built-up miles of waterways, unclassified roads, asphalting and everything else. This gives for the right to the claim that these units of local self-government have shown the meaning of their existence, and I have always emphasized that domestic players are the best, have the best view of the terrain and bite them best, and therefore should leave them to do what they know well. But it's certainly worrying that how much more obligations are given to them under these circumstances I am witnessing in the social care segment how hard these efforts are and what we are exposed to without talking about that legalization. It's a special topic where our locals in these units are exposed to immensely high costs. The costs are too high, they can't settle it. We, of course, try to make it easier for each of us in accordance with our own possibilities, loose ourselves, to help them in some way. But it is too heavy for them and insurmountable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69291	Thank you, too. Answer, colleague Klaric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69292	So here's my colleague Milinkovic, thank you for not forgetting the topic we talked about and the question you wanted to ask after this break. In fact, the two of us agree because we come from this segment of units of local self-government, I think and I stick to it and all the time here performs in such a way that the units of local self-government, regardless of what anyone has spoken about them, and that is the fact that I pointed out that regarding the find of the State Audit that every direction of the State Audit leads to the quality of operations of local self-government units and there is the fact that many of these units of local self-government, including those you mentioned which small municipalities are effectively doing that part of the job, is only one of the evidence of their justification for existence. And this data that some even up to 900% increased their revenues from the moment the units were created of local self-government was created in '94. Your year is definitely a true piece of information. What's gonna happen to us anyway, and that's what I said, and I hope I made myself clear. When data are compared after the 2012/2013 State Audit find. A year, that our incomes will fall drastically and with new legal obligations impose and the obligations of local self-government units are increasing. And I think that through the legislative framework, respecting the guidance of the State Audit will have to do one very, very big job and start thinking about local self-government units in one other way. Here I forgot to say in the debate that all the budgets of the local self-government unit are in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, and we see that the total sum is about some revenue of 21 I think a billion kuna, we cut from 25%. So 25% of these 21 billion go into the state budget because we're all VAT bonds for our work and the work we're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69293	Next replica, Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69294	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I think of course I agree with you as well as other speakers when we talk about the problem of local self-government in one segment and about the problems of decentralisation, falling income, etc. However, what I would still like to refer to and what is the problem of local self-government which is not related to the general situation but what is clearly read from the Office of State Audit which has supervised 13 counties, 36 cities and 15 municipalities as a single sample, which is that irregularities and failures in the area of the Budget Law... the calculation plan established by all audits of the affected budget users which is not in line with, of course, the debate on how much they have problems of course for income and organisation, but it is very questionable and very bad that in fact none of the covered has satisfied all of these segments that are related to the clean law, for pure accounting to say so in a way and it is necessary to particularly stress and in particular need to know. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it would be good, of course, if all the councils, i.e. the county councils, were informed of such access because the legality and mode of work, the respect of the law at least in this segment, which is related to the booking and the procedures related to the recording of income and expenditure, are key so that, of course, they could further upgrade and open up the story and decentralisation of other problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69295	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69296	Well, here's a colleague in the previous reply to the replica I said a few words, but in the presentation, I made myself clear. So, this 2770, as much as there have been recommendations during the findings, all these recommendations I really don't experience and I don't think anyone in this country or in the units of local self-government, and even what you're talking about should not be seen as a criticism or any major problem except a guideline in how better and more effective you are doing. The fact is that if we take the expense side and look at the Law on the municipal economy, it is a fact that every unit of local self-government will have some conditional opinion about the unintended spending of funds if its revenues from municipal income are higher than those of tax revenues, and it has to spend them on exactly what I was talking about that imposes on us are getting bigger because social benefits are increasing, the state is giving up on health care services and they declare it kind of above the standard. Local self-government units, if they wish to retain them, must finance from such other incomes as are intended under the Law on the municipal economy. And it's normal for a state audit to give some kind of conditional opinion when it comes to seeing all that paperwork. And about that, and also the announcements by Minister Linic, who are linked to the taxation of real estate, go precisely to the point that these revenues replace the intended revenues of the municipal so that they can serve all those obligations that are in front of the units of local self-government. Neither we, nor these four municipalities, nor these three cities in the Republic of Croatia who have no conditional opinions or guidance, because they regularly collect their incomes did not achieve it overnight, but this is one process that lasts for years from the findings to the findings and gradually perfectes. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69297	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate. Jadranka Kosor and club HGS. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Boro Grubisic, HDSSB club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69298	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, sir of the State Audit with the Director. What to say about the report on the audit carried out and in connection with the collection of income in units of local and regional (regional), I hope that soon it will be only regional and not synonym regional and regional, or county, self-government? In addition to the fact that the report is very concise and clear, it speaks about all the data but this is also a very interesting report and I would say from the sub-indicators the statistics from which we can read a lot. We can actually read a lot about the state of income, expenditure, claims in local self-government units. Well, I've tried to figure out some things through the tables, and first of all, I'm going to look back at the state of Brod-Posavina County, like a county that has the lowest fiscal capacity in the country of Croatia of all 20 counties. We used to get information at the County Assembly about this fiscal capacity, we haven't had that information in the last two years. But from these tables that are attached to this report, a lot is read as I said. So let's say, starting with what Mr. Klaric was saying, which is the number of employees per unit of local self-government in all 26 municipalities in Brod-Posavina County no more than 10 employees. So in each of these municipalities, is there no more than 10? 2 cities that exist in the county one has up to 40 and one has so more than 50 and county more than 50. That's one piece of information. Now that we see that Brod-Posavia County is about 3.5% per population and even per area of the Republic of Croatia, then we can see that the number of local units according to their own revenues for 2010 was 10 municipalities of 26. Or 8% of the entire Republic. Which is very much given this information about the number of inhabitants and the area. And there were 16 other municipalities in that second category of up to 5 million kunas of their own income. Which is 7% of all municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. When we add these up to a million and over a million to 5 million municipalities of all 26 municipalities in Brod-Posavina County belong to that category, which is a total of 6.5% of the municipalities of all Croatia. And only 3.5% is Brod-Posavina County per capita. Thus, the fiscal capacity of the entire county can be easily matured. If Mr. Maric says so, maybe he disagrees as a financial expert in that, but somehow I would say so. This was for 2010, similar data slightly different and the schedule of municipalities was in 2011. Mostly that trend has been held back for Brod-Posavina County. And this data that is the sub-arrow state audit will also be excellent data for discussion in the County of Brod-Posavina and in connection with any strategy or economic shift and other those economic arguments and parameters which can be argued and realistically considered the economic financial framework of the Ship-Posavina County and all other counties. In doing so, I am not exempt from any other county in the country of Croatia, it is not Denmark that someone would not misjudge it as Shakespeare did, but we are here somewhere. Especially according to that statement about the state of Denmark. According to the number of local units according to the revenue achieved from the state or county budget is about similar, so the aid received from the state and from the county budget is about the same information so that everything I talked about in the replicas when I talked about concession fees I received information that someone already said here that actually when it comes to concessions and in Brod-Posavina County based on a decision or a solution or found in the Ministry of Economy mining office only in Europe there are supplies of calcite, if someone doesn't know what calcite is, it's about something like limestone that can be used and even for the purpose of producing livestock flour and livestock food, etc. So calcite. This calcite is located in the area of the municipality of Podkkraj but here in these papers of state audit I found something that I didn't know and I have to say thank you gentlemen from the state audit for teaching me through this text that the concession is actually charged by the state and according to the contract with whoever has the right to concession and then is then allocated according to certain national, county and municipality ratios. Even someone here said that if the county is looking for it or the local unit if it does not seek state, it has no obligation to notify the county or municipality of how much stone or that calcite was dug during 2010, 2011 in the area of Brod-Posavina County and certain municipalities. This time it's the municipality of Podkrkalja, where the huge quantities and deposits of this calcite are said to be the only one in Europe, very valuable. Marked in a mining department of the Ministry of Economy as a pv, pv special value. Furthermore, 140 km of the Sava River flows through the Brod-Posavina County with all possible gloves, bandages, curves and others we have in abundance of sand and gravel and I personally know those who exploit this sand and gravel on the banks of the Sava River and on both sides to understand each other from that Bosnian dish? We know that it was the government's decision not to subdue the coast for ecological reasons, and I don't know what it is and that it's not jeopardizing bird habitats, so for a while there was a ban on exploitation, so we bought gravel to build houses and rebuild in Bosnia, and those who were next to the Danube in Serbia, over the Apatino and so on, which was absolute nonsense and nonsens, so the Sava River is on our side and the gravel has arrived and the gas has been reduced so the ships couldn't sail, etc. Denmark is not watery in many places, but when it comes to exploiting ore-richness, then it includes both sand and gravel, and it falls under contract with the Ministry of Economy. I know that for the past year, although it is not about these two years they are covered by the revision, so when adopting the report on the budget spent for 2012 write a nice concession for the mining wealth 0 kuna, Brod-Posavina. This means two things, or the county did not go towards the Ministry with a request to repay the money that was made or the concessionaries did not report any profit, income from the job that, for which they received the concession. Or the state of kicking along with the county did not transfer the money, so three things to the county and to the municipality. Generally the municipality of this Podkkvalje which is a very interesting name and strange but has a huge wealth in calcite and county which has 140 km of the Sava River has 0 towers of profit, income from concessions to exploitation of mineral wealth. That's one thing. We will not talk about guilt, there is no need for revision, but she warned in her report that there is no coordination with the ministry and knowledge of how much it literally states how much it has been achieved from the mines. The other thing is the tax administration and the relationship of the County of Brod-Posavina with the Tax Administration. I heard worse than my colleague Kresa Bubal from Osijek-Baranja County that it was arranged with the tax administration that Osijek-Baranja County directly manages tax revenues which are defined as county incomes, county tax pardons, and the Brod-Posavina County for these two years, 10 and 11 left to the tax administration therefore its tax revenue and then writes here that there was not enough coordination between the tax administration and the County of Brod-Posavia about it, about not saying the redistribution of cakes of tax returns etc. And then the state audit rightly warned of these two things that could be very important in increasing above all the increase in the revenues of the Brod-Posavina County. I hope that today, this is now 2014, that already after that there have been some changes in both of these things and that the revenues and I know by the 2014 budget are much larger, it seems that there have been some shifts. Oh, God. Then let the state review what's called unconditional opinion in the area of Brod-Posavina County. So, what was said, therefore, is that, literally or in a sentence, the financial audit has found that some local units have not introduced all taxes, there is thought primarily of the tax on income and taxes on holiday homes, I think that this in our Brod-Posavia County is not current, but that there is no taking effective measures to collect claims, that is what exactly in our county is very current. The second writes, in fact, no relevant records have been adopted, and there is no data on bonds, i.e. debtors according to types of income, and in fact for these two years the report relates to the tax administration. And thirdly, local units don't have enough experts to collect and control the collection of income, I don't think that's true for Brod-Posavina County, that it has a sufficient number of professionals to collect and control the collection of income. Mostly, I say, these data from the State Audit report are very useful and here, at the first session of the County Assembly, it will be very useful when we are, not because we would be party to or politicised, but because we would like to help those units of local self-government as well as the County of the Ship-Posavina right in our achievements, possibly increasing the achievements on the revenue side, in exactly the way I have said it. In addition, the report also states that the reduction and referring to, in income from taxes and income cuts made in the amount of 157 million liquid aids that have been achieved from 126 million kunas that the state owes, therefore, to the County of Ship-Posavia on the basis of these decentralised funds provided for in the budgets, but are, not paid into the county budget and then we have some imbalances between the budget and what is therefore due to the non-payment from the state and funds decentralised, we have a problem that must then be addressed by the rebalancing of the county budget. All in all, very useful data, precisely presented and thanks to the State Audit, this report on the audit carried out by the HDSSB club will accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69299	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Tomislav Klaric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69300	Well, fellow Grubisic, here's what you mentioned to the municipalities in your county, up to 10 employees, and then you mentioned a rock of calcites and some of the things that are being taken out there and everything else that these units of local self-government could make an income and you mentioned the tables. Maybe we all skipped table 7, and it tells us about the revenues and receipts of local units for 2011, for all of Croatia all units of local self-government and look at the percentages. So more than 2/3 of all revenues in the area of the Republic of Croatia are made by the city of Zagreb, those of several major cities, municipalities of 15.9%, and there we have that part of the developed municipalities of which some have far larger budgets than some cities. And we come to what I've been talking about all the time, the law that we've passed, about abolishing the status of mountain-mountan areas, the status of special state care and the incomes that someone else is making in the area of these and such units of local self-government like yours. The mountain Kotar of the richness of these forests is being pulled out of Gorski Kotar to return it, and the towns and municipalities are practically having some prominence and looking at these few people who are employed in the Croatian forests, it is based in Zagreb. Croatian waters, atrocity of water resources, are located in the area. HEP, we have the Municipality of Fužina, we have the Municipality of Lokva who have lost revenues based on municipal compensation because of those two accumulated lakes that have been charging neatly, now they even have to return. And we're looking at the situation in that part of the state these municipalities are in, and I don't know how effectively I can charge the revenues when they're in that situation. And if I don't say these banal things that are related to the recommendation, the collection of the cemetery and the collection of this, the collection of the gross of all revenues ends right where they are listed in Table 7, in large cities and the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69301	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69302	Yes, colleague Klaric, thank you very much for your support. In fact, the HDSSB has been working from its own draft and is trying to show that Croatia is a highly centralised state and is trying to spend some time in some legal frameworks to set up so-called fiscal decentralisation, which is not going. It's the only Greek state that's more centralized, and that's why we know, they say it owes you to Greece, and it's obliged, right? So Croatia is second from the bottom on the European countries' tables. What you told me about mountainous and mountainous areas, just like the municipality of this Podkklalje, a mountain-mounted municipality of special state care and has huge findings of this calcite marked PV, special value. He knows Mr. Shuker, he worked there at the ministry, right? So I know personally and the people of that community say that they are, and now this is a new time, not covered by the revision. That a million cubics, not tonnes, of calcite were exported in 2013 in 15 days, and that the municipal register and the county register remain, therefore, denied for funds belonging to the law. Why and how, there are three reasons, I don't know, I led them, so we'll also see in the county who's responsible, so actually for that. I'm not calling anyone to get along. And that according to the law tax belongs to the place where the headquarters of a particular company is so it is normal for HEP in Zagreb to go all the way to Zagreb, so Croatian waters the headquarters in Zagreb and so on. We're talking about decentralisation that would change that, too. So if we were to move the company's seats somehow differently or I don't know, then that would be different. Unfortunately, we remain still, so we proposed in the Constitution a change and regionalization as one of the possible mechanisms for changing that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69303	Igor Czech replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69304	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Grubisic, you have entered the very core of the matter in your debate, and I will start from the very end where you supported these reports from the State Audit Office. I agree, they contain truly valuable data from which I believe we can all learn a lot. You also mentioned calcite in Podkkraj and springs of sand and gravel in the Sava River, but I think it belongs to some other legal acts, if I am not wrong about the Law on concessions where we have practically banned the extraction of that gravel and sand and where we could earn a certain amount of money, but our dear neighbours of BiH practically draws that gravel and sand from our side of the coast, sells it to us and we buy it from them. But what you haven't noticed, and I'd like to look back, is that we've noticed some shortcomings in the audit findings by county, where, for example, income from the lease of state agricultural land is not used in such a way as to return to agricultural production itself but spent for other purposes. So what should be noted, there are counties where they income 3, 4 or 5 million kuna and spent for other purposes, and they did not spend on the funds for which it should be intended. For example, repair of roads through parcels of agricultural land. You know the situation of Slavonia and Baranja yourself in autumn or spring when these roads are practically full of holes and mud. So it makes it impossible for farmers to walk to their agricultural parcels for which they pay the rent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69305	Thank you, too. The answer of my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69306	A colleague of the Czech Republic, anyone who comes to Slavonia today from state administration, from any other institution or agency, can see a visible difference between Slavonia and the situation in Slavonia and other parts, I would say all of them. And Lika's on her way, you see that when you go through the Dalmatino, so on the highway from Bosilev to the left towards Split, you can see that Lika lived after passing the highway. Slavonia when you take the A3 highway from Novska is a twilight zone, so you can see the impoverished villages, abandoned fields. And what will those paths be unclassified when there are no crops and nothing left of the old population? It is not clear to me, too, that this state, regardless of how it sees or cannot manage such wealth as is available to Slavonia and Baranja and all five Slavonian counties. Osijek-Baranja County has lost some weight in terms of fiscal capacity in terms of meat production, cheese, eggs, milk etc. So the strongest in Croatia. All the other 4 counties I have to say now without the politics of the HDZ mayors Virovitičko, Požajka, Brod-Posavina and Vukovar are at the bottom of the fiscal capacity scale of all 20 counties of the Republic of Croatia. And then what do you expect? We have nothing to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69307	Thank you. Ante Sanader replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69308	Vice President. Dear fellow Grubisic, you have already raised your line, and you have not heard what I am going to say. Okay. I'd like to look at two things, first of all, about the concession to exploit ore wealth what you were saying about calcite. The same situation is with the stone, but it touches another major problem, which is the decentralisation of the system. And then you all fight the quarry because it doesn't benefit the local community or the place where it exploits that stone but the horrors take away the other one, and then no one's going to quarry in their neighborhood and it's always a battle when it's taking a spatial plan because everyone's fighting the quarry, which is normal to fight to use exploitation... raw materials in their area. But precisely because of this decentralisation and because of this desire to attract resources, and when the funds come to them, then why would they have it in their area. And secondly, about your county of Brod-Posavina, you said they'd left it to the IRS. I wouldn't agree with you here to leave, they, like all counties, are looking for the only way to charge this to their own and the care of the mayor or the people who care about regional self-government is to collect the funds of their debtors and then it's their only option through the IRS because they hope to get through the IRS. Because the IRS has the instruments that, as you see now, this when a traffic violation is very simply charged because it is a single system, and so the IRS has its tools where it can be easier to charge than one county. And the latest you will see what will happen now that the whole system is a matter of complaints about public procurement, the state commission and these lawyers are charging huge tariffs and again a new problem to local self-government units. So you would... agree they're just looking for a way to survive and how to charge the funds, not that they're willing to leave something.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69309	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69310	Now I'm a colleague of Sanader's. Namely, I said that the Osijek-Baranja County itself made tax payments, did not leave it to the IRS. Who's there now in advantage and right? I don't know. We might see what the charging is, and then we could figure out what the tax rate is in Osijek-Baranja and Brod-Posavia, so let's compare it. But I don't have that information, and I don't have those plates either, so I can't say anything. Maybe next year we'll know something about it. When you were talking about stone, then the whole of Dalmatia could sell how many stones there are, but it's interesting that the Adriaticman on Brač, which no one has watered, garbage, eagles, digs, consumes fuel and fertilisers, and is lost, is that how you know. It's a very interesting phenomenon you're selling stone and you're lost. Well, that's a terrible thing. Of course the profit is being drawn to some other side, and that's what the whole thing is, we know everything and you know it as well as I do. Right? So the Slavons are God-fearing people, still unlike some others, and they don't mind digging calcite in the municipality of Podkkalja on state land. And that, even the concession, no problem with private property, can be dug calcite. But he's taking an illegal bath. There are huge amounts digging up, and maybe something very little two dots, and a million cc's are being dug up. That's the problem, that's the problem of this country. The state review can't do that, but the state's attorney and the DORH could. We were here with him yesterday, but I didn't tell him because a man can't tell the state's attorney how much he has.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69311	Thank you. Goran Maric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69312	Thank you, dear colleague Grubisic. You called me a little bit, so I had to react. But first, you commended yourself on the content of the report that it was extremely well-conceived, easily readable, that it was excellent. No wonder. This delegation you see is the most professional delegation I've ever seen here in the Parliament that has ever come. And when any member of this delegation, the Government has delegated to a member of the European Court of Auditors, it would not be ashamed, but has delegated to a person who is an expert but in another area. But she never revised a single report. And then we had a rather unpleasant situation. You also talked about concessions, how there are no municipalities and county benefits from concessions. So if you read the State Audit Reports you'll see that there's only one person benefiting from the concession, that no one else has but the concessionaires and that's visible. But the problem is that it doesn't react to the State Audit findings, it doesn't analyze and there's no reaction to improving solutions. So let's also say that unconditional opinion is not at all a problem to reach if it responds, but most say in this report that most have failed to carry out the tasks of the previous audit. So if someone doesn't execute orders from a previous review, they'll have a positive opinion. And is it a problem to carry out the tasks of the previous audit? Not at all. So it's not a problem to reach for it. And you're doing a great job of using the term economic and fiscal capacity. You are using it at the right time, and it is the fiscal capacity of your county, the municipalities because it stems from the power of the economy, and it is not there because the structure is bad. That's why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69313	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69314	Thank you very much. I told my colleague Maric that the fiscal capacity of Brod-Posavina County is the bottom of the bottom in Croatia of all 20 counties, and that is how it stands all the time. Right after that goes Požeško-slavonska, then Vukovar-Srijemska, then Virovitičko-Podravska. Only a little bit somewhere in 10 places is Osijek-Baranja County. When you talk about responsibility, when recommendations are made, I would call those recommendations advice, well-intentioned fatherly or motherly advice of the State Review to those who are in power and who decide and have executive authority. No different, no orders, no recommendations, no directives as the EU says, but fatherly or motherly, not to say prayerful advice on how and what to do. About the fact that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia know nothing about this, or the county. They don't have any, people don't enter the People's Newspaper, they don't follow, they don't read, they don't have any. 7% has the Internet, the broadband isn't in Podkkraj, it's not halfway up our Slavonic Deal, and I can't even track it. And the elections should be the ones that will assess those who do not make recommendations, i.e. the State Audit advice. The government wasn't ashamed of Perkovic either. Look what they've been doing these six months. So they joked and dragged Europe and that Mrs. Reding, so they're not ashamed of either the fake or the state auditor who's not responsible for these things, and there's how you yourself said the experts in the State Audit in the method in the sai etc. which she might. But friendship, godfatherhood, birth of ruling works in this country and negatively affects Croatia's image in Europe. That's exactly the proposed auditor, then Perkovic, so ask God. We'll hear a lot more about what happened here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69315	Thank you. And the last replica, Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69316	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, not only you but in some and other debates we heard of course commendations for the work of the State Audit because they did a great job and made it clear, pointed out certain facts, provided certain findings and recommendations. But somehow I have this feeling of thinking like we're discussing some kind of statistical report that we're getting to know, and as you said, I'm going to quote you useful and useful information. So, the State Audit Office says everything it writes is binding. So this, apart from being useful, usable information as far as possible and as far as anyone gets into a little trouble either on the Internet or, of course, in view of the Public Information Act, is absolutely available to every citizen not only to Assembly representatives or councillors. This isn't just useful, usable information. These are binding and binding recommendations, and we certainly also know from previous reports that there have been not only misdemeanors, but also criminal reports following the findings of the State Audit Office. And I think that level of debate when we are discussing the work of the Office of State Audit we must and raise us in the Croatian Assembly to a level of binding and what is constantly being passed, and rarely implements it is the responsibility of those who do not carry out the obligation, especially when we read here that the law is not implemented. Then what are we talking about? What useful information. The law is not implemented, so it must be implemented, there are certain sanctions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69317	Thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69318	Col. Gjurkovic, when former state auditor was respected and respected, Šima Krasic otherwise published data from Klobuk in Herzegovina that privatisation and conversion to the Republic of Croatia had been made and estimated that, I do not know whether the INTOSAI method was then in question or not, but perhaps another, that more than 85% of the company, starting from Dukat and beyond, was criminally privatised in the Republic of Croatia. Nobody even blinked. So, the State Audit assessment that was completely here at the Parliament I listened to her R.H. didn't commit anyone. State review isn't a repressive apparatus, it's an advisory apparatus. So we can change the legal framework but that doesn't fit the EU directives either. So the State Audit is completely different than the DORH. Then we should use the DORH if that's what we're gonna do. Unfortunately, I wish we could do a few or not knowing how many criminal charges, but we can't if the opinion is conditional. There are also unconditional, or unconditional opinions on crime, and some measures have been taken. For example, in the Municipality of Sibinj in Brod-Posavina County, I think that also in Virovitica-Podravska County, one municipality was one year ago, 4.5 years ago and that measures were taken towards the executive bodies in those municipalities. So, you're saying the State Audit opinion is binding. Well, it's binding, but it's not, so it's not a repressive apparatus, it's a MUP of the Republic of Croatia or a judiciary, is it? It's information that can be useful. But the State Audit is filing a report, that's not true, is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69319	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Nadica Jelash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69320	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your respecting the state's chief auditor with his associates and associates, colleagues and colleagues. This today is the first report of this kind, so the first report on the effectiveness of the collection of income in units of local and regional (regional) self-government, and I agree with my predecessors who said that this is indeed a quality basis for discussing what kind of local self-government we have right now and what kind of local self-government we would like. So this is one good contribution to the debate on the reorganisation of local self-government. Thus, and all the criticisms that have been raised today at the expense of local self-government, and for which some colleagues and colleagues have now called me under this pause, so all these criticisms have been made today just to get really one effective and one good and rational system of local self-government. What can be read from this report? First of all, it can be read that Croatia has as much as 576 units of local, or regional self-government in 2011, because that year is the subject of this revision together with 2010 so they have made revenues of 22 billion kuna. Generally known is the fact that local self-government in Croatia is fragmented, that it is atomized. Almost 70% of all local self-government units have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, which in itself points to the conclusion that the system is irrational and that it really needs to be changed. That too much public money is spent on the cold drive of these units of local or regional self-government rather than meeting the needs of the local population. These claims also confirm that over 30% of local self-government units have revenues below 5 million kuna, and even 56% of them have revenues below 10 million kuna. That's what you can see from the table that we've been presented. It is even more devastating when it comes to local self-government's own income. So two-thirds of local self-government units have their own incomes of up to a million kunas, just one million kunas. This low representation of own income in total revenues is actually the reason for this high dependence of local self-government units on support from the county or state budget. Only 7 units of local self-government carried out an effective collection of their own income in 2011 and did not establish any illegality and irregularities in that area. And indeed these units of local self-government deserve to be counted individually on general joy and Mr. Milinkovic, he is not here, Mr. Klaric, but also on my personal satisfaction. Namely, it is about the cities of Bakru, Čakovec and Kutina and the municipalities of Blato, Drnje, Djelekovec and Hlebina. What are the reasons for these low incomes? The most important reason is that almost half of the units of local self-government so each other did not introduce all the incomes they could, in fact, have been made. I am personally familiar with the cases of the conduct of some units of local self-government when asking for support from the state, and the state then conditioned the granting of its assistance by introducing all the laws of the intended revenue. So these municipalities, because they are concerned, are willing to introduce some income, and they do, for example, income tax, but in a minimum amount or percentage, so 1%. It's just that nobody can tell them that they haven't met this requirement that they've introduced all the revenue and that they meet the conditions for obtaining funds from the state budget. The next reason for low income levels in local self-government units is that almost 37% of the revenues that local self-government units have imposed, so every third potential kuna, local self-government units have failed to collect. This means that local self-government is literally leaking money through the fingers, and municipalities, cities and counties just have to say it doesn't work too hard to collect as much revenue as possible. One reason is that they don't object to their fellow citizens. So it's incomparably easier to ask for insufficient income from the state. The State Audit Office's report shows that in 2011, local and regional self-government units have shown as much as 8.6 billion kuna claims and it is indeed unacceptable that a large number of local self-government units are not taking any or just those initial measures to collect these strong claims. The State Audit Office has issued a total of 2404 recommendations to units of local or regional self-government for each audit area made since the collection of revenue as the most important area for the functioning of local self-government, which is also the primary subject of this audit to informing the population of the importance and purpose of budgetary revenues and their impact on improving living conditions and meeting public needs. Similarly, the State Office for Audits has made observations on which some laws should be implemented and complemented, for example, the Law on the Communist Economy, so that the laws are clear in application, and here I have already said the responsibility of the Government today, but before all the Croatian Parliament as a legislator, that it is the right laws that create this legislative environment that will facilitate the functioning of local self-government. With that in mind, I'd like to point out a very current problem. It's about county hospitals that are in line with huge debts, huge losses, and that should be remedied in the coming time, as we know by government money. In principle, the obligation to cover the loss of hospitals is in the counties, as their founders. Which is, in fact, contrary to the fact that countys at the same time have no possibility of affecting hospital costs, above all, to employees' salaries and we know that this cost is absolutely and relatively high in total costs because employees' salaries are defined by collective agreement. Therefore, on the one hand, the county has a responsibility to cover losses and on the other hand it does not have any potential to influence the level of costs. And to conclude, therefore, local environments must certainly be more engaged in the development of this one culture of payments in order to meet the common needs of all citizens, the collection of income is as important as the availability of incomes and assets as well. In this respect, both local leaders and representative bodies should pay far more attention to the reports of the State Audit Office and not, as is unfortunately often the case, only to be taken into account because there are no sanctions in these reports and still work on the old ones. In my case, I am aware that the audit report is even declared an official secret and is not given to council members for consideration or at their disposal. Contrary to such examples, it would be ideal for audit reports to be made available to the citizens themselves, so at the moment it seems difficult to perform, but I think it would be excellent. Something said by counterpart Grubisic, there may be fewer cases where citizens are re-elected by leaders who have actually wronged themselves in making their fellow citizens' money available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69321	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Jelash in his opening part of the exhibition you said that the territorial structure in the Republic of Croatia is not good, as I am and letharic... which shows that 70&a unit of local self-government is below 5,000 inhabitants, that it's defiled seems to me that's exactly what you said, and that's why it's not good, unadjusted, expensive, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to say that for 11 years, since I was the head of one of the island's municipalities, and I've followed up pretty hard on all the studies, analyses that talk about the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, I haven't found a quality study that would go after it to indicate that such a territorial structure is unadjusted. This is mainly about the need for the overall system of units of local self-government but valid arguments to be neither financial nor organisational nor any other which would follow your findings. Well, it seems to me that a lot of times this grade is flat and not accurate. On the other hand, part of you deny yourself when you talk about 8 units of local self-government that are effective in charging your own income. Of these 8 units of local self-government, 5 are municipalities that are just below 5 thousand inhabitants and which in a certain way testify that local self-government units can also perform the basic tasks of the Law on Local Self-Government. And I am one, so I come from the Municipality of Blato, which has been effectively charged and I hold that often times the costs that would be reduced by the number of units of local self-government to represent an additional cost to citizens who should meet their needs in local self-government units where they do not live today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69323	Thank you. Answer, here's my colleague, Jelesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69324	Dear counterpart Bačić, I am pleased and truly sorry that I missed when I spoke individually about municipalities that respected the collection of the estimated incomes of local self-government units, so the Blato municipality is one of those and I congratulate you on it as Blacanin, but the fact that we have among 7 such units 5 municipalities does not actually confirm or deny this thesis. I really believe that this kind of atomization or fragmentation of local self-government units isn't good, it's not rational. Imagine how many deputies it is, how many deputies it is, how many administrations it is. Although in the end line, if there were more wills to connect, if some jobs were to be done together, I think one step would be made for the better. However, there is no such will.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69325	Thank you. Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69326	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelash, I really did not take your observation and discussion as a criticism to the units of local self-government, but you did draw attention to something most often written in the findings of the State Audit, which was not recorded claims and no measures have been taken for, appropriate measures to collect the claim. You see this most often, but we need to distance more and distinguish between the good and the bad, and that is our task, to point out that not all are the same and that there are those who repeat mistakes, that they do not record claims year after year and that they do not take appropriate measures to collect income. And to take collection measures, it's the simplest business activity. For this you do not need to go to seminars, or train professionally, or go to school, you do not need any special experience, it is simply the simplest administrative activity to take the collection measure. And it's only responsibility, or irresponsibility, and if they choose to be responsible, you've solved the problem. If they choose to be irresponsible, you have a problem. But we also have a legal problem. I think you should consider finding a legal solution. If the State Audit has found and given an unfavourable opinion, some establishment, that automation must be removed from the director or director of that institution if it has an unfavourable opinion because the State Audit is tolerated, I observe carefully, they also give conditional opinions at the border where it can be given unfavourable. They never gave unfavorable things if they didn't have to, and they could have given some of them an unfavorable amount, but they stopped a little bit, and that's why the head of the organisation must be unfavorably removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69327	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, pal Jelish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69328	Dear colleague, I fully agree with you that you need to distinguish, you really need to distinguish those good leaders of the local self-government unit from those who are not doing well. I really agree with you in your claim that the State Audit Office is willing to give a better one, so to speak, an assessment or opinion to those on the border, as well as a conditional and unconditional opinion. What really hurts in this whole story is that one hardness in a number of units of local self-government, or their leaders, to insist on the fact of irregularities and illegality and then actually appreciate the complete system. It is indeed unfair and I think indeed, I agree with you that this should be distinguished and therefore, in my previous debate on the previous agenda, I spoke of the responsibility and political parties to run for those positions of local leaders for people who are also professional, but above all responsible for working in local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69329	Thank you. Ante Sanader, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69330	Thank you. Dear colleague Jelash, I respect your opinion. I don't know you, I met you here in the Parliament, but I feel like you've never worked in local self-government. You look more like someone who worked at the IRS, maybe I'm wrong. But from your discussion, that's what it would be like. In fact, I absolutely disagree with you, your entire discussion, it doesn't mean anything to you, normally. But your whole discussion was in that sense that you simply say the local administration was fragmented and that's the main reason that nothing works under 5,000 and so on. Okay, maybe we didn't get along, but look. Look, I'm not gonna say this about the HDZ, so it doesn't turn out that I'm speaking here as a HDZ man right now. Look here, three of your chiefs here from small backgrounds, look at the successes they've achieved, that and such small units of local self-government, something that would never have been achieved and done that Komiza had not, in fact, had its own area, if it had been under a common community of Vis, it would never have achieved the successes it achieves when it is self-sufficient and it takes care of itself. But you won't touch the main problem here. What are the responsibilities of these small units of local self-government? And don't underestimate that these little people are less valuable or less capable than some big ones. Basic problem, how many legal options do we give? How centralised we are and how these people are not in a position to do something. It was said here that you left there to the IRS to do something about it. Do you think they are incompetent? Either one of our mayors or mayors who has to go to Zagreb to some ministry to pray for a sewerage between two of his small places. What do you think he's incompetent and that the minister is capable and smarter than he is so he knows how to make a sewer between two small places? So there's a basic problem. As for the audit reports, they are available to citizens because every audit report goes to the city council, the municipal council and the county assembly. And all citizens of their party have the opportunity to see that audit report, so they're not a secret citizen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69331	Thank you. Answer, here's my colleague, Jelesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69332	Dear fellow Sanader, so I will repeat, indeed the effectiveness of the units of local self-government, so I will say without a difference in size depends on the agility of the leader, i.e. on the enthusiasm of the unit leaders of local self-government. At the same time, however, I will say that I think that indeed local self-government units have too many powers, so simply with the existing administration, they are unable to work. It would be very good if these powers were transferred to several levels, i.e. local self-government units, I mean specifically cities and municipalities, doing what they're trained to do and doing it quality way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69333	Thank you. Ada Damian, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69334	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague Jelash, I have to refer to your debate as the head of a unit of local self-government that counts below five thousand inhabitants and I'm going to say very successful municipalities that are even in the fifth category of sustainability mean 125% above the average of the Republic of Croatia. But I have to say in defense of the leaders and the local self-government units themselves that sometimes we forget some other problems about the collection of income in local communities. No matter how hard we try, it's really impossible sometimes because our citizens are burdened, and when especially for a communal contribution, you go into forced payment, you just can't even get in line because you're loaded. I think we have to be in all of this because local self-government units are the only ones who care about their citizens and are trying to improve their lives and, therefore, we have to be sensitive to them in some way. I agree that debts must be paid but sometimes in local self-government units, you have to think about it in such a way as to try to make it easier for citizens to pay their debts back, maybe for one longer period, and then it's treated like a bad payment of debts. So I think that everyone in the local communities is trying very hard to increase revenues every day, and here I will say, for example, my municipality that year after year, we are increasing revenues but perhaps in a more humane way, although this may sometimes be read as worse revenue collection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69335	Thank you. Here's your answer, pal Jelish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69336	Dear colleagues, Damjanac, I am very pleased when we talk about such positive examples of the functioning of small units of local self-government about their success. So the truth is that local self-government units are needed because they are closest to the citizens, because they understand their needs best because they can most certainly meet them. But I repeat, we need exactly that number of local self-government units. As for the possibility of collecting individual donations from our citizens, so we have taught citizens a level of standards that are difficult to maintain in this recession situation. So our citizens must become aware that in this situation I simply won't say some privileges but that level of standards is very difficult to maintain. But I agree with you that we should have developed this one sense of understanding with the citizens, but I think that's what the State Audit Office perceives on the ground. So if there's a possibility of charging individual incomes to wars, I don't think that should be a problem. It's important to collect the revenue.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69337	Thank you. Today, Shaw's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69338	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Jelash, you have elaborated this issue very comprehensively and precisely, and I think it is also indicated to these materials for this key moment regarding the collection of income, but there is no question in these discussions about the content of the work of the local self-government. Local self-government sounds so very nice, but whether we have in mind the content of work and local self-government we talk about municipalities, and under municipalities it is understood that citizens in these units exercise certain rights. However, as certain powers of authority now stand for the municipalities, they are in practice a modified form of the management of the municipal company, except for the communal problem, almost nothing more they can do or do. Here you pointed out that they are more and preferable to charge or funds for the state's money than to collect their incomes. In practice, they can also confirm the collection of revenue in particular from these various contributions, etc. The problem is that both the population and the rural environments, farmers simply do not want to pay for everything until they realize what they are asking the state to do. In this case, various incentives in agriculture are at stake, and if you don't get paid by one who handles 200, 300 hectares, then especially not one who doesn't have or doesn't have a 5.6 hectare. So this problem is somehow connected. I would just add in one more sentence you have very nicely pointed out to the structure of these municipalities that almost over 1/3 given the structure of 1/3 of these municipalities were not able to either bring spatial planning documentation or bring a programme of availability to agricultural land. I don't know what else is going to happen to reorganize this whole thing together.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69339	Thank you. And the next replica of Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues I see I would down in Dalmatia tell me that you have a little light on these leaders local self-government with your comments and in fact you just lit a little of course and they just want to say that they didn't charge, they weren't effective because they had compassion with the citizens is it hard to pay them. This is about only one fact that there are laws and regulations that have to be implemented, and they have enough instruments to enable citizens to even write them off to give them to wars that are in accordance with the law only those decisions should be made, not to charge. And one important thing when we are already discussing the State Audit and all useful information, advice, recommendations and obligations that we are reading from these audits and all others is that essentially every revision that comes out of the State Audit Office under the Information Act and the right to information within 7 days is available to the Office of State Audit and is, of course, available if someone is looking for any citizen and in writing, etc. Therefore, everyone can read it. And I also agree with you that it is not that all municipalities and cities that are reported are part of the State Audit, or all those who are budgetary users, or legally binding on what the audit is doing, and all the audits that are made to city councils, or all the competent institutions, because they are obviously not exactly like that so that they can be praised.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69341	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Marijan Škurić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69342	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the distinguished chief state auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I am as mayor, above all, can truly express my satisfaction and congratulations to the State Audit Office on this very quality report that is here before us. She thanked us for that because, let's be honest when we in cities and municipalities hear we're having a review all of us have some problems and discomforts, let's see what and how it's going to happen, if we've done all right. But there's that, that's the quality I'd like to commend that, apart from the findings, that there are recommendations and that there are opinions. And those are the opinions that I can say for the first time that they may benefit us in local self-government. Because we always look like it's all our fault, so I don't know how we'd like to do something on purpose that we have a negative finding of the State Audit, that we have some kind of measure by other state offices towards us. What I still think is that the vast majority, almost all of my colleagues, want to do something in the spirit of the law, something that becomes the development of our cities and our municipalities. And that's where we need help. We need help because here today we have had many analyses and now I would not particularly repeat in this report, but help in a way that really has a large number of cities and municipalities. What's average here is said to have a pretty large number that's below 5,000 inhabitants. We have a large number of cities and municipalities that have incomes of less than 5 million to 10 million kunas. And then when you know in that part that really when you have smaller fiscal burdens, then there's the problem with people who know something of quality for you to do. Let's face it, it's really a problem. What's the problem with all these measures and things that and the legal provisions that come before us every day that we have to solve in that part. And indeed after the audit and all the counties have been carried out, including the city of Zagreb, all 126 cities and 429 municipalities, we must indeed realise that the failures and irregularities were found in all local regional units except those 7 who had a positive opinion. Of course, after these 2404 recommendations, I speak as mayor and the captain, we must respect that in a very good way and we must put it into our decisions. And indeed if we mention that according to the report, the audit does not carry out any information to the public on the importance of public income, on their purpose, on their use. When we have problems with all the irregularities related to the possibility of the introduction of individual revenues, when certain tax revenue collection problems, income from non-financial assets and other revenues are defined there is indeed once again a question of what we are doing in the units of local, regional self-government and which we are doing to our society. I don't think that's true, and there's a lot of these things we want to do in the spirit of the law. What we need to implement, which is the efficiency of the collection of income, legislative regulation and of course we have quality databases. We need to have accounting records of the claim, the organisation and control of the collection of income and, of course, inform the public. It's got to be transparent, but we're talking about some transparency. So here's this report already today and before on the Internet and this debate of this House that everyone can hear, see, so there's no secret. Everyone can hear and need to hear, because really in that part when you have information with one quality debate we can come up with the best solutions. What I would say in that part, though, is that when we look at the values of the revised claims then for 2010, the claims are recorded somewhere around 8.9 billion kuna. Compared to the income achieved, that's almost 40%. That's a lot, and for 2011, we also have one such analysis where we have claims of 8.6 billion per year's income of 22 billion, which again accounts for 37%. But we must also point out that the city of Zagreb with 3.2 billion claims has a 37% stake in the total amount of demand for all cities and municipalities in Croatia. This may speak of one thing, that we thought that in smaller municipalities where we do not have such professional resources or fiscal capacity, or any appropriate help to make much greater mistakes. Zagreb has denied it. If we see here that Zagreb has neither introduced any payment measures, then we must also say that the truth is different somewhere. Speaking of effective revenue collection, we as mayors and commissioners are in the same dilemma. The dilemma is that, first of all, you have an obligation not only to the State Audit when it comes into control, but also to the legality of determining your measures, procedures, acts, decisions. At the same time, you are also responsible for your citizens. We all know that when we define the procedures for the collection of claims, then you are in a dilemma about whether you will first and foremost be able to pay some part of the decision on the implementation, notice or other measures to collect that claim to citizens who know that in these difficult recession times you can't pay for it. If you do that then we know what you have, then you take pictures and you read in the papers how these mayors, the mayors don't have moral social sensitivity, etc. At the same time, when you have to decide whether you have to make an economic operator an effective collection of income, you know that he's in trouble, you know that he's hiring a large number of workers, then the question is what you're going to do and how you're going to do the procedure to be the best according to the State Audit, best according to the law, and especially according to the economy in that part. It's hard to believe at this point today that we're adapting it and we're really trying to do what and how we're doing to help everyone, the mayors are finding solutions. And we need to find solutions, but we need to abide by all these conditions that I've said. And that revision is then whether it behaves then bureaucratically, and it's a shame that you have a legal decree, this and what you had to do, and the other one doesn't care. I repeat what I said at first, no one is crazy enough to go do something he doesn't need to do and be punished by law after that. There you have really defined to the extent of effective revenue collection what is really not in the authority of the local administration and what is difficult to help. The measure of the collection of city and municipal taxes, which we have largely given to the jurisdiction of the Tax Administration. There's one reason why, so because these measures I said you don't have people, then you give it outsourcing that someone else is doing it for you. Or you'll hire a man. And if you hire a man right now, you'll be watching the paper again as you increase the cost of the city, you hire people and other things. And here it's well defined that we can't really have control so far, but now here's your measure and attitude with the IRS and certainly we have quality cooperation and we have a better charge. What you said about the same local unit that... from the holiday tax, yes, you know what legal powers are, you know what citizens need to do and they don't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now, really, we at the local administration have to take many measures practically from the client to the client, to the people you have to report it to and direct the executions. It's our fault again because we didn't do what we had to do. Then, regarding inheritance tax and gifts, yes, it is again defined that the tax administration is not obliged to provide data to the local self-government unit. Much is not in the obligation of others to us and we in our intelligence so far, I hope after such a finding of the opinion that we will achieve much better and better quality cooperation on the collection itself. Not to speak about the incomes of the communal contribution, it concerns how to charge the public, the owners of this municipal contribution and the fees very high quality of their ability to charge. What you would really say in the end as a conclusion that the units were always apparent on the report of the audit carried out. In addition, most local units clearly state the circumstances in which failures and irregularities have been made and the reasons why the collection of revenue is insufficiently effective and state that they will be followed by recommendations from the State Audit Office. That's what we all really think, what we feel and what we're going to do. And perhaps also one request that review, meaning State Audit, a little more really be available to us, open the door in the advisory role although it is not her task but all of us can at that point one, you have more knowledge and experience, help us to safely next year reports that will be much better and better for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69343	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Branko Hrg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69344	Thank you very much. You spoke from practice, and everyone who tried to be in local self-government can actually agree with your debate. What is true is that the recommendations and opinions of the State Auditors must certainly help local leaders and therefore improve that part of the job from year to year. At the very least, such thinking and opinions and such recommendations are most helpful. You were talking about a claim-dealing dilemma. Today we are constantly talking about how local self-government should exploit all its potentials and charge everything from citizens. So, to those who haven't tried to live with people and be with them and be with them every day is very difficult to explain what you know yourself because it's clear that it's very difficult to drive someone out of the apartment with the kids because he didn't pay for the apartment. It's very difficult. We can give it to a lawyer and we can do it, we can get the family out but I'm asking you who has the heart to do it? These are the things we meet. On the other hand, it's mentioned here in the report, of course, and you have these cases in your city, talking about these housing apartments. Here we are now slowly in the local self-government freed from this burden and these concerns since the state took practically those apartments together with the tenants back to our will they were prescribed back to the state so we won't have any more problems with the collection of claims because we have enough. Those who were able to buy apartments they also bought, those who remained in principle are in social status and very difficult to pay for something like that. And what matters is, you said you didn't have people, that you were working for yourself. Believe me, do whatever you can for yourself with your own capacities. We in Križevci took over from the Tax Administration the collection of this tax on drinking consumption, we increased ourselves 32% of the charge compared to what the Tax Administration did. In our existing frame, we didn't supplement anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69345	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Skuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69346	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague I agree with you, the problem of billing, especially on our local and regional self-government where we all know everything and we know absolutely what this situation is. But of course, the same definition is that we need to redefine some kind of procedure. And the procedure is, she makes one frame. For example, the procedure that up to 1000 kunas if we have outstanding claims within a year can be cancelled. If it goes more than 1,000 kuna, we need to run some other measures. If the person or citizen is under constant social assistance, we can write it off. If no one in this family is employed, we can write it off. So there's got to be some procedure behind which, by some consensus, we're going to stand by and say, here's what we're about to do. What you said about the part of taking responsibility, or within professional services in my city, where we have 10,000 residents and slightly less for 8 employees. And I think in that part I can say with pride we are among the better cities in Croatia, 8 employees. And I can tell you that we're so effective that since I'm mayor here for almost 12, 13 years, not for a single moment for a month or a year we haven't gone into the budget minus, we haven't had... nor have we had a lack of liquidity, we have done the other things professionally, operationally what we need and at the same time we have done 14 projects from EU funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you need to look at the possibilities that it's aurcorsing, to whom to give something else but you need to know why and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69347	Thank you. And Ante Sanader replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69348	Dear Mr. Skvaric, I'd like to refer to what you've asked yourself and what damage we do in one part of your exposure. I think the local administration does not do any harm, but here it is seen that there are two Croatias that can say but also two views of life, one is those who have never been in local administration and those who have never met the problems of citizens directly from them who have always decided or observed these problems in the local environment and have never had a chance to knock on someone's door, ask and to bring out their personal problem. And there's this debate we're having about our discussion here because that's all we hear here when we hear a statement of money leaks through the fingers of the local administration and she's not trying to collect it from her citizens. I mean, those are very bad grades. Or these mayors, the mayors don't cooperate with their citizens, or they feel compassion for them, because they will choose them tomorrow, so they won't charge them anything. But you said all the important problems, this daily problem that the mayor has, and then comes as far as the question as they don't respect the law, these powerful men as they call them under quotes, local sheriffs, they don't respect the law, gentlemen need it in a short procedure with these mayors, the mayors, immediately take them out, and those who don't know, who have never worked in the local environment, no matter what those foreigners belong to. They say so and they act so, and that's why it's good that the mayors and the mayors are here in the Parliament because then they can, they can raise their voice, they should be mayors here and the audits, and as much as I'm left with, I'd like to appeal in the local middle of the mayor, the mayors need to consult someone because they come to the DORH, so take a look at this contract, so don't make an application for me tomorrow, so I'm asking you to help the mayors, the mayors when they come with an opinion give an opinion in advance and not what you do, and then I'll chase you, and I'll shut you up for a month in DORH or at BOK I don't know anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69349	Here's a reply from my colleague Skuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69350	Well, it's up to you to say that the question that we're doing is based on that part of the audit results when we read the machines, nothing's wrong, nothing's good. It is all wrong to ask whether we are doing damage, but we do not do damage in the best faith and we intend to improve the work of representatives of our local self-government and we want to improve the overall efficiency if we, based on, make it better for all of Croatia. Of course, once again, I point out the responsibility of the mayor and the mayor of the maltera, we are pigeons, now everyone can shoot us on the roof because we are guilty of everything and best until you find out who's going to be responsible for everything and it's our job and responsibility that we are here every day to find solutions and to get better and to really do it once again that we may not have the opportunity in this work to have some advisory roles and help us cities and municipalities no matter what. What's really happening is that when we ask someone or they say they can't give it to you in writing, here's maybe just oral recommendations or what's worse for you, then we'll know what we're gonna do. It's not good, it's not good for us or for anyone, and I think that there should be a little more cooperation and help for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69351	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Here you go, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69352	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's something I want to say about the revision of the 2011 audit report on local self-government revenue, 2010. I'll look back on the section relating to the coastal-goran county. I come from that county, and I think that some examples have already read a lot about what the basic problems are that the mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, but still the figures suggest something, they are who they are, and it is possible to read from them, and to establish that the importance of and the person who runs certain local self-governments and counties is very important. My county has 3.5 thousand km of square, 14 cities, 22 municipalities, 296 thousand inhabitants and 195 thousand housing units, 1.5 residents per unit. And the total revenues of 2 billion and 15 million kuna and are lower by 100 million kuna in 2011 compared to 2010a, of which own income of 768 million kuna, which gives them a certain part of the legal proposals. And they're smaller by 20 million than in 2010. Now that we take it, those two billion, one third of it's outstanding claims, 663 million kuna, sometimes it's arrived and one part of it doesn't work. That's terrible knowledge, so we're able to charge all the two-thirds of the revenue we've been given by law. My county had 177 employees at the end of 2011 and the total income of this county's own institution was 303 million kuna and 47 million kuna. When compared to local self-government, it's less of that 47 million than the city of Opatija that has 11 thousand inhabitants, that we know when we talk about counties how much their ability is and what they really can. It has a lower budget of its own income than the city of Opatija. Now that you have that 47 million kuna, then when you look at these claims, 11 million kunas not charged, out of those 47 that you have 11 don't pay, what, for what? That's the basic question? Who's to blame? The audit. That's what the leaders say. But let's move on, concession fees revenue, 14 million kuna. My mayor constantly boasts that there are the most established maritime goods borders in office not a single small part, 14 million kuna of concessions for maritime good where the county is smaller. The highest income of the county is the tax on the use of goods, road motor vehicles and vessels. 20 million kunas were cut off by 55,000 vehicles and 2,000 vessels. 20 million kunas that's the tallest part, and it's actually going to the County Road Authority. And now we're coming to the city of Rijeka. It is one of 4 large cities in Croatia, with a surface of 44 km square 6 times than the town of Chabar. City of Chabar 3800 inhabitants, Rijeka 128735. There's 63,000 housing units and two citizens per unit. Fifteen thousand people left the city compared to 2001. It's the largest exodus in decades. Can the local leader expect more income when you get 10% of your population out of town in 10 years? It's the same question that individual leaders will answer. Total revenue 769 million kuna less 40 million kuna compared to 2010. Today we are in 2014, and for 2013, they were already much smaller than compared to 2010 and are already approaching the border of barely 700 million kuna. Of which, 301 million are own incomes, and claims which are not rare in this report, but the phenomenon for large cities is 377 million kuna. So we have much greater claims of our own coming and failure compared to our own income. When we look at the city of Osijek, there is a different ratio of 123 million of its own income and claims of 90. Does something depend on the authorities or individuals that's the question? I will not mention or rather mention the city of Zagreb a billion 850 own revenues, and 3 billion 250 claims. What does the mayors suggest? That it's the most effective social program, the most effective way not to charge what you need under the law and you're all a good mayor. Here is a request from the city of Rijeka, for a municipal fee of 32 million kuna, city taxes of 23 million, a lease of business premises of 14 million, a municipal contribution of 10.5 million kuna. The average efficiency of the city's collection of Rijeka 76.5%, the weakest of all local self-government units in the county with the highest number of administration employees. Since 1 January 2012, it has increased the income tax rate from 6.25 to 12%, which is 100% higher. We're trying to make up for our losses. How do you manage real estate there? At the end of 2011, there were 173 free business spaces in Rijeka, and by June 2012, the number grew to 217. It says here that regular invitations to tender for the lease of business premises were probably excellent but one lady ended up with the indictment since she didn't carry out the contests obviously in the best way. According to data, the average invoiced price for 2011 is lost in these premises million and a half kuna in 2011. And then one good part, a colleague Klaric said about it, in the period from 2007 to 2010 a portion of the funds from the price of municipal waste disposal for the total amount of 27 million kuna is given in the form of a loan to the city of Rijeka and to the company in co-ownership of the city of Rijeka. By the end of 2011, 4 million 700 were returned, with a return commitment of 22 million and 300 thousand. So that relationship where the city guarantees the business of companies has shrunk in the city of Rijeka to the attitude that the city takes from that company its income to survive instead of being the other way around. But it can be done in the city of Rijeka. The state office has assessed with the right that the effectiveness of the collection of the incomes of the local self-government unit is not great. But what happened then? The audit report for 2012, the mayor looked at it and looked at its conditional opinion from you gentlemen in the State Audit, and he gave you a conditional opinion as an audit. So Mayor Obersnel gave a conditional opinion to the State Audit. It's a rarity. No one's ever done that before, and that's why this town needs to be remembered. And in 20 years, we've lost 35,000 jobs in that city. I'll point out that in this town HDZ has never been in power, ever. And now I will list the traces of some companies that once existed: Automotive, Shipyard Cantrida and Kraljevica, Brodokomerc, Brodomaterial, Brodooprema, Domus, GP Jadran, GP Kvarner, GP Primorje, Istria, IZO Mont, Jadrokolor, Construction, Kvarner Express, Lero, Meat Combine River, Metalographic Combined, River factory rope, Rijeka catering, River textiles, Rikard Benčić, Sladis, Slavica, Transadria, Tipograf, Torpedo, Factory of paper Rijeka, Vulcan and finally Rijeka Bank. The Rijeka Bank has survived since 1871, full of 132 years until it was taken by SDP personnel under its wing and disappeared in 2003, and it has been a contribution to having what we have today, because really when we put all these figures into one correlation relationship, the question is, who is responsible for almost nothing in that city anymore, that we have been living in it, that people are running away from it in a decade, that the HDZ was not in power, it was not, and 35,000 jobs are missing, and who lives well from the city and eats the policies that were being spent there? I think she made it because the city of Rijeka and its institutions became the best entrepreneur in the city of Rijeka. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69353	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Goran Maric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69354	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Boris, just when I wanted to mention the word "cut" you mentioned. A few dozen million of you have spoken of the unpaid claims of the city of Rijeka. Among other things, you mentioned unpaid rents for city spaces and roughly counting while you said that only half of the outstanding claims were charged should not be increased in the city of Rijeka from 6 and a half to 12, but could be abolished and the tax should not be in the town of Rijeka. Only that half of it was charged for unpaid claims. And double damage is done by such a policy. Individual debtors are rewarded, and workers are punished for having to pay out of wages, and thus creating unfair competition because some entrepreneurs do not have to pay rent or other obligations to the city, while reducing the salaries of workers. This reduces both purchasing power and consumption, which directly negatively affects economic activity in the city of Rijeka. Well then, it's no wonder there's more businesses there than in any city in such a location as Rijeka. And it's always done backwards as if it were done on purpose. You mentioned the Rijeka Bank. It went into the privatisation of the Rijeka Bank, imagine in privatisation in a way to buy it by a state bank. And all that crime was done there was not revealed, but the one with the directorial post in the other bank was awarded because he had covered it up as long as he was director of the Banks Control Directorate in the Croatian People's Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69355	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69356	Well, fellow Maric, that's what you said, and now there's only one part I skipped, but I'm going to say it, and about this particular increase in the cut. From 100% that was almost, 6.25 to 12. The city of Rijeka is in '91. Buy a property of 9900 m2 and three properties of a total area of 77670 square meters. It's a huge space. As the masters have established the revision, because simply the number of rooms that are rented and now more, they used to be hired, now they're gone. It grows from year to year because certain parts of the river have become like desolation. You're just going through some of the spaces that you went through 10 years ago, there's nothing. And then the mayor says he has the best social programme in Croatia, which refers to these outstanding claims that are higher than his own revenues for 60 million kuna. Who's to blame? We have heard a legislative framework that does not allow local leaders to collect effectively. Now, I've set an example of Osijek where this relationship is quite the other way around. Whether it depends on politics, on individuals, let the parliamentarians and Croatian citizens conclude it for themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69357	Dear representative Ana Comparić Devčić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69358	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'll look back on a few sentences said by my colleague, Boric. Well, first you were talking about county. In fact, it's from your exposure to conclude that you actually think that the county doesn't need them. I can agree with you. So suggest we maybe support you in one of your ideas. As for the charge, the municipal fees in the city of Rijeka, and you know very well that the city of Rijeka has several times forgiven the debt of the Third May. Why do you think? So to save jobs and May 3rd, what the government didn't want and wasn't able to do. You know that we also had a session of the city council on this particular subject and that the members of the HDZ in the city council did not support the idea that, therefore, to guarantee the Third May. You can laugh all you want, you were in Mr. Calmeta's vault at the time. You laugh and say the river is a wasteland. Yes, but look what Zadar looks like. I wonder how that's possible that the river wasn't getting anything. How much we fought for the bypass, what was going on. Come on, we've all forgotten, we've become, we're all suffering from amnesia, not amnesia. The people of Rijeka have not forgotten why they have not now given you support and will not give it to you so soon. You'll have to fight hard to get support. As for the big firms in the city, there's a river of job losses. In the town of Rijeka privatisation was carried out in the HDZ way and you well know that at the head of large companies in Rijeka were then your prominent members in the city of Rijeka. Well, you can be as angry now as you want, the truth always hurts. And for the end. 55 billion kuna states have not charged their claims. In 17 years of 20 and so many of you were in power, so I wonder where the efficiency is?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69359	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69360	Thank you very much. My colleagues don't need you to be nervous. I know you have reasons to speak differently, but numbers are numbers. And this is what it says here. I'm not what they say I pulled out of my finger, but this is what the report says. And I've tried to show how putting it in the overall framework can affect our thinking whether it's an individual's fault, whether it's politics, whether it's a revision or some legislative framework. That's the question that's going around here today. You don't have to be mad at all these failed companies and everything that's going on out there. As for the bypass, if Calmeta hadn't made it, she'd never have been there. It's a fact that you can't, he's done more for that city than Komadina, Obersnel, Linic and these together. It's a fact and you can't run away from it, and you can say whatever you want. If you were as capable as you claimed you were, we would be building today a highway from Crossroad to Yellow Lock. But as soon as you came, you promised, you gave up the same moment. Some have left their positions and we must conclude that you have deceived us as voters. Now, if you can do it several times in a row, that's quality. That's it. As for guarantees, how can someone give an illegal guarantee? And yet to build the HNK as a mortgage for that guarantee. Well, I mean, it was a skilled political game that just couldn't work at first, and it's called populism or demagogy in politics. There are skilled gentlemen from the Labourist. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69361	Can I get my picture and speech back?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69362	Well, he can.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69363	Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69364	I didn't think about it. The other night, we talked about populism when we had the State Officials Act and that pay cut, too. So I remembered, but good. So, I think we've made things more or less clear. But 15 thousand people when they leave and you don't effectively charge these claims you have, then you can say you have the best social programme, and then you can give the State Review a conditional opinion as mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69365	Thank you very much. Time's up. A new replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69366	I'm sorry you didn't mention concessions when it came to the city of Rijeka because for a period of three years we kept asking Mr. Mayor to send us concession contracts but probably markets and some other things were strange, so those contracts we barely got. It would be good to talk about the river and say how much concession income there is. However, it is obvious that numbers sometimes hurt, causing anxiety, and it is likely that Rijeka and the pool cause anxiety. But speaking of guarantees, look, someone didn't give Victor Lenac a guarantee because of some personal conflict and Viktor Lenac went bankrupt. Who saved him? He was rescued by the HDZ government and today there are 700 almost 900 people working there without a problem. And as for that guarantee on May 3rd, the best thing to do is to have a representative body of a single unit of local self-government for political reasons make a decision that is against the law. Well, that's fantastic! And then they're still proud of it and they say they wanted to save something, and they just knew that they gave it a guarantee to say no to the Competition Agency. But you have another story, so here it's said that guarantees should be given, and these guarantees that have been converted into public debt are suddenly problematic. So let them deal with themselves what they need.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69367	Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69368	I fully accept everything you've said because these are simply facts. As well as the fact that you had a Rijeka Bank since 1871 so that in 2002 she would just leave. So, for centuries, someone's managed the same effectively, and when the SDP personnel sat down, it just disappeared. And then she saved herself in a known way to save herself in another form. But one other bank is also in our constituency, at the 8th in Pula the Istrian Bank according to the same criteria as the current minister, then the economy and today's finance, could not be saved. It's just some situations. And I didn't even think about talking about my county and the city of Rijeka in a way that would cause negative connotations, but these are the figures that were written down by the audit. And we'll see what they write down for 2012 and 2013 etc. But when the 2012 report came, where the mayor was once again warned that he was not purposely spending a large amount of funds on a simple conditional opinion to the State Audit. And it has become a normal pattern of behavior in this country. Now, is that how it's done for us Parliamentarians? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69369	Honorable representative Ada Damianac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69370	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's my colleague, Boric, for the first part of your debate, you used the first part of your debate for political anti-campion against the mayor of Rijeka, but I would not like to discuss it, but you mentioned business spaces. We are witnessing that business spaces in local communities, cities and municipalities are increasingly empty every day, i.e. that our small traders, craftsmen, entrepreneurs simply cannot, do not have the means to pay these rentals. In today’s day when every job is very important to us, I would ask all of us here to find opportunities to reduce these rentals and allow all our small entrepreneurs to craftsmen, merchants, caterers to keep these business spaces under cheaper conditions and to work in them. And I would like to ask another question, which is also a question for the main state auditor, if possible, of business premises for associations. Namely, we who own business spaces like cities and municipalities when we rent any business space we have to put it on the tender. It also refers to the business premises we give for our associations. So there should be opportunities for associations to be given business spaces without competition to use because they are our civil society associations or any association that can use them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69371	Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69372	Thank you very much. With one piece of your replica I can agree with and it should be the mayor's job to get what he bought back in '91. He's trying to rent it effectively, so he can do it. He was elected there, I wasn't chosen to do it. And he has one job and one directorate for those things, but one lady over there ended up on charges and has some sort of conviction if I remember correctly because something was a little out of the law. And it's just a problem in the river that you and when you want to do something in that town, you get in trouble because there are only some people who can have space. Do we agree that only some people are allowed to? This has long been told stories and should not be raised here because this is not a debate about business premises in the city of Rijeka but about the State Audit Report on the effectiveness of local tax collection and everything they have to collect. And the city of Rijeka shows that it does not know how to charge more efficiently here and to make it easier for the Mayor Obrsnel, worse than the city of Rijeka, is the city of Split, which has 200 and some million kunas of its own income and nearly 700 unpaid claims, three times more.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69373	Respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69374	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleague, Boric, so I will say this in your debate and your debate is one of the major major political attacks of HDZ on colleagues from the SDP and we are coalition partners, so I feel that I am also called to say something. You colleagues are fortunately not managing any major city in the Republic of Croatia because if you were to manage it then the most likely situation in these large cities would be similar to that in the country or at national level. So maybe there's something you could say about what you left in the state. So, these cities, in spite of all these objections or objections to the revision, are still doing a sustainable job, unfortunately, our country, you have brought it not to me in a situation that it is not sustainable. So much for that. The cities of the economy and your references to the economy know exactly and very well what powers they have in it. They can encourage, they can subsidize, they can sort of organise and coordinate but they certainly do not have the fiscal capacity that they can be those who are going to start the economy because our country is a highly centralised state still unfortunately I personally feel that this is not good and that cities and municipalities will start to move at the moment when their powers are down and their money is dropped and some positive shifts are started in this country. However, your attack is terribly reckless and where you forgot that Rijeka systematically destroyed the HDZ policy of all these 20 years starting with the Croatian line that ran your chamber while you were probably still in kindergarten, so you may not remember it but it is the living truth and beyond all of these companies in the order you mentioned. So I had to answer that in this way, don't be mad at how I answered you because it was definitely the state government that put Rijeka in a position, not just Rijeka, but all the major cities in the Republic of Croatia. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69375	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69376	Thank you, Mr. President. You should not even be nervous because Mayor Komadina sent you a nice message yesterday about the partnership up in Gorski Kotar, so as to your support for you, SDP etc., he told you not to interfere with something that is not your business, so much about how much you appreciate each other. And as for your claim that well that we're nowhere in power because to be on the state level today, now I don't know if it's praise or penance, not because these have gone out of the city of Rijeka, 15 thousand of them, and now everybody's out of the country, that's already progress. It's now in tens of thousands to measure it. And there's 380 thousand of them at the Bureau of Non-employment, and there you sent 70,000 of them, and then you blocked these same 100 grand, but so you're doing it very effectively, so you don't have to be angry about it, but your feeling that you're always right and that you're doing it quite well, so who can forbid it from you. This one there votes for you, you have a city, you have a county, you've divided everything, and now you're saying that we privatized these companies, and well if we privatized them, if that's how it would be very good to determine who was really here at the source and who was at the mouth. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69377	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask you not to lose your criteria in the heat of battle and replica. So one of the MPs or MPs said that the Croatian state is unsustainable. I think you should avoid it. It's simply not the product of raids. It's the heat of battle. I ask you nicely, refrain from such qualifications, and certainly it is not the raids but the heat of the struggle. We continue with an individual debate, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69378	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Chief State Auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues, and obviously we are unable to discuss the figures and even those made to open our eyes, eyes that are once covered with political blindness and interest to show that something is better. So I'm just curious, that's one rhetorical question for colleagues from the state audit is whether these reports will all end up on representative bodies units of local self-government because I think it would be good for all these reports to discuss municipal, city councils and county councils. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This isn't the state audit report that works every year. This is a joint report. I know what I'm saying, so don't finish it because this report adopted by the Parliament has no obligation to pass on to the units of local self-government and that's the key question because we can shoot as much here as we want. But it's crucial and I'm going to elaborate this later in my debate because I've crossed both local and county and state-level executive levels, and I think I have some experience, and I can warn some things because just today nobody has said, say, one fundamental thing and what is the percentage of the payment of the communal fee? And how many units of local self-government have a communal fee as some sort of fundamental source of income except for these larger units of local self-government. And if we started talking about it that way, then this report would make sense. Because most units of local self-government have what is simply falling from the sky and this is the share of income tax and those of the larger decentralised income tax and when you look at the percentage of income, it's moving from 50-90% The next source of income here we have to exclude these cities by the sea are income from the municipal fee and income from the municipal contribution. By having the income from the municipal contribution has a legal purpose for which it must be used, the money from the communal contribution you charge cannot be used for, say, wages or something like that. And if we had debated it this way today, we probably wouldn't have come to this debate and each other's bickering, and we probably wouldn't have come to a point where someone says we should or should not have abolished the units of some local self-government because we're also speaking indiscriminately. You have small municipalities that work great and if they weren't what they are, they'd probably never have such a high degree of communal equipment. And why is that? They had able chiefs who ran to Croatian waters, Croatian forests in HEP and in such a way the money that was there, and money will be spent by someone. Now the question is how many people were able to offer the program and get that money to build some kind of highway network around their municipalities. You have small municipalities that border the areas of a city and now look at that small municipality it has both water and everything, and next to it is part of a big city, the citizens of that part that belongs to that city have no water, and the ratio of your budget is 1:100. Now that someone asks me such a question I can't possibly say that these small units of local self-government didn't justify their existence. So it's just one combination. What should also be said, this report should have been used among other things for our debate when we talk about this property tax, real estate tax, etc. Because here you can see clearly what your income is from the utility fee. And when you look at the amount of your charge, and when a real estate tax is introduced, because the minister has purposed to decentralise certain functions of the local self-government unit and in such a way that it would be more chargeable to charge them first of all with primary health care. E colleagues and colleagues, if we are not able to charge more than 50, 60% of the communal fee, then the question arises, and tomorrow to charge the property tax that would be far higher, and this would depend on the functioning of primary health care. Let us now talk about whether we are a real estate tax rather than saying what should be financed from it. And what would happen to us? The same thing would happen to us when we decentralized county hospitals in 2002. We decentralized the county hospitals, we gave one part of the funds, but someone else began to determine the prices and costs of these hospitals and these county hospitals were practically since 2002 except a few exceptions began to accumulate losses. And that can be read from this material. The figures should be read as they are without political considerations. We'll have other issues where we can fight. And that is why I would suggest that we, no matter what political option we belong to, conclude that these reports are forwarded to the units of local self-government, regardless of what we cannot oblige them to discuss it on their representative bodies, but to give the recommendation to inform their council members about these data. I'm saying because then we'd probably argue differently. Why? So we charge various charges for the communal fee. Some cities started their own companies, so they charge them for it, some hire people with them, so they charge them for it. Also taxes on cottages. I remember when that tax was introduced practically only for a third year he began somewhere that over 95% of the solution accepted as it was, there were no complaints whether people were constantly complaining and this remained in some sort of order in the Tax Administration and very few units of local self-government took advantage of the possibility to establish their own. However, that holiday tax also showed something else. Because of the political risk, local leaders are not prepared at a given moment, let's say, especially in the attractive environments at sea, to take responsibility to raise the price of taxes per holiday per square metre, although that possibility I think seven, eight years ago, that we have changed that law and given the possibility. 'Cause look, that's what I'd say with the language of a builder that's so-called. position rent. Well, it doesn't make sense that someone has a cottage in Dubrovnik somewhere in an attractive place on Croatian islands or somewhere else, so let them pay for it. It would be far better and more meaningful to pay for it than to pay for those 12 or 15 kunas all year round, or to pay for a whole year's flat-rate 20 kunas for the drain and water you don't spend. It would be far more meaningful for local self-government units to increase the tax on those cottages located in attractive places. I think the amount was 12 kuna per square metre maximum. Tax consumption is 3% on non-alcoholic drinks and beverages and the same, and when you look at the income of a local self-government unit, it turns out to be negligible. And that's whether some tax is payable or some tax isn't worth it. This report shows that perhaps some of the local self-government taxes should be taken away if they are of no use to them. They have far more problems in some kind of negative balance sheet, but that's why those who have quite a full budget should work on how to charge them better and better, how to already have a percentage of the bill. And at the end of the money from the flats sold. These are funds shared between the local self-government unit and the state. So by law, these funds can only be used to buy social housing and to solve social problems, in fact, social policy. And it would be good if the State Audit came into any unit of local self-government, and there aren't many of them, it's maybe a 100 and a few cities that have more revenue than selling those apartments. Why? Because most of the unit of local self-government didn't even have those collective housing buildings, so she didn't sell so many apartments to see where that money ended up. Whether these coins were actually used to buy apartments and house our fellow citizens, who unfortunately found themselves on the sidelines of society or used them in current consumption. So, a series of questions that probably council members on city and municipal councils would open up to county congregations may be far more critical than we discussed here today. Because as soon as someone mentioned something, it didn't fit someone that went to defend themselves. But perhaps, with one debate at the local level, it would be good. And secondly, I think this report in terms of size is impossible to work every year. And it might be good to make it every five years in this way because it offers a very different dimension of local finances compared to that report that is being done every year. Because you can't because, especially because of the new law and water and everything, you can't look at one unit of local self-government isolated from the other. It is therefore very important to compare some of their incomes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69379	Thank you. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69380	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker, here's the thing you encouraged me to do at the very beginning of your debate when you mentioned the charge for the communal fee. I think most of the smaller municipalities are in trouble. The problems have already occurred since the amount of municipal compensation was determined, because often you have seen it through the legalization process yourself. We're not just talking about houses that they don't have, buildings that don't have a building permit, objects that don't have any documentation at all, so mostly municipal monks or municipal workers went with a meter, so they measured the square of space. It happened, it's not a problem at home, but it's a problem with business buildings where, often times it wasn't proportional to the size of the building itself, so the cost of municipal compensation was accumulated. That's not what the owners paid after they went to class or what was already going on. I think that's why much of that amount isn't charged to many municipalities. And when we talk about renting agricultural land, too, the municipalities to avoid the great cost of introducing the property, so they're often said from the office they were introduced into the property. After that many complained while he... Of course it was good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the lease was paid, it was no longer right to pay rent for the part of the land that was not actually used, and then the two years they had the right to begin to have their contract broken if they did not pay for the lease land in that sense I kind of stepped in defense of the units of local self-government because the revision of course it recorded the state as it was at the moment when it came. But these causes of problems accumulated from the past often cannot be seen in that way. And I certainly agree with you that these findings should come to councils and congregations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69381	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69382	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Sagar, you've only expanded what I started. And I fully agree with you here. One rhetorical question, however, for both of you and me. If you said you couldn't charge a communal fee, then tell me and how you would introduce a property tax when all these properties are now, where the municipal fee is paid squared, and the real estate tax should be paid according to value. So every real estate that whether it has a building or no construction property should be evaluated. So you see that these discussions of ours lead you to just some things you can't do overnight. But if you, as a consequence of that change, have a decentralisation of certain functions that concern directly and even the lives of our citizens, because it is primary health care, then we are playing a very dangerous job. And that's why I say this report very important, that simply people who don't deal with this area see, simply to see what their city lives on. And then probably everyone will think differently. So the logical thing is that you have from a bunch of those companies that have failed cities still have the obligation of unpaid utility fees, because no one dares to start a process obsolete for the simple reason that it would not become a subject of persecution. Well, it's easier for him to keep it as a debt than for you to write off or start some kind of outdated procedure, so someone's after you tomorrow because you've got someone else or something. But I'm saying, these few income units of local self-government only raises a lot of questions. And if 8 billion dollars per 200 billion is not charged, then 50 billion per 120 billion is still a slightly different relationship if 50 billion in these amounts is interest, and in this part of the municipal fee, many units of local self-government don't charge you a tight interest, so that's a much higher amount if it was charged an average tight interest of 13.14%.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69383	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69384	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear fellow, we agree on that part that indeed the vast majority of local income tax administrations make up most of the income. But these are the original tax revenues and what you can ultimately best, best-quality plans over the year. These other revenues are, above all, the revenues of the municipal compensation that we in cities are, so through city councils, we have to make decisions that are high. Because you have one range of as much as in that frame. Now, you have to make that decision in a way that you first of all see what is the fiscal capacity and the ability of your local administration. You're not going to go to that maximum wish, which would be good if you had as much income as possible to reinvest in the municipal infrastructure in that part. The communal fee is a very strict means. You can't spend it on other things than the communal. And what I'm saying is it's like a legal basis. But the point is that whatever you tell me this information is going to be known to everyone and everyone knows it, especially if we're dealing with politics, that if you do something wrong, it's going to make sure that it points out to you as a single flaw. But I'd like to make another point out of my experience. The budget of the town of Lepoglava in 2001 was about 3 and a half million kuna. Today, the city's budget is somewhere around 20 million kuna, 5 times higher, and the economic value of all these fees has practically remained at the same level. But it happened that I couldn't get any support from the ministries, unfortunately in the last eight years, especially when you were in power. I turned to other sources of income. These are EU funds. 14 of the projects we've implemented have been built into the development of the city and we've built it into what I want, too, and we need to know where we're going to spend them. We're not going to spend it on building football stadiums, but we're going to have to build a communal infrastructure, economic infrastructure, and eventually a social infrastructure. We need to know what we want so we can have quality resources. That's what I agree with. But are we doing it? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69385	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69386	Well, my colleague, I think we totally agree. Just to me, I would add to what you said were all cities, and to this were referred back in 2008, 2009 they were supposed to set up pre-accession funds departments, and later on for use. So those training cities didn't make it. And those who did, and you keep pointing it out, you probably did it, have positive experiences. And it's crazy to say now if you have some big infrastructure network that costs 200, 300 million kunas you can't do it without Croatian waters from your own so you have no idea what budget. But if you have a water supply and you run it under a project to protect the environment, and it can certainly pass you that you have run those projects, they would have already won for part of these projects in 2015. So these are the facts you see we agree on no matter what political option we belong to. And we don't need to fight at all. Why? Well, because they're real facts and only an idiot can argue that. And if you're mayor, then you have no idea that you're disputing it to make your citizens better tomorrow. Because I'm saying if there's mud no matter which political party we all belong to, we're all gonna step on that mud. But if they lower our primary health care in the context of this real estate tax, then the citizens will bang on the mayor's head where the penneses are and you won't be able to charge that property tax in terms of social status and property censorship or income, however you like, because now we can't even charge a public fee that's far less.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69387	Dear Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69388	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I agree with most of your debate, and regardless of what has been difficult about the debate, especially in this segment of local self-government, Commissioners and those who are not mayors and mayors, I think this revision has shown well and in this segment that it has opened up space for certain things to be changed within some other legislative frameworks but has opened up absolutely this problem to the public in a completely different way than has been done so far. I also agree that not only should the audits be sent to the city councils and made recommendations, regardless of what is on the websites that we have spoken but that it would be good to send the same to city councils, or county assemblies to the owners of all those companies that have made the economic justification for differences in the price of municipal and public services, as well as the collection of exports and disposal of municipal waste, because this is an expert analysis, binding with recommendations, and it would be very good to apply. And it will be applicable if delivered where it is in the right place. And you also mentioned successful municipalities and cities running around the ministries, so they were a little more successful than others. Tomorrow, the Olympic Games are opening, so we have various ski runs I don't think it's a sport to be mayor, mayor and run around the ministries. What we're trying to introduce now, and these are the criteria right for obtaining funds based on projects rather than on running as it has been so far. Here, Mr. Skuric mentioned something.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69389	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69390	A colleague of Gjurkovic's shows that you didn't run around the local self-government much. That was one figurative expression, you couldn't get the money if you didn't have the program. Therefore, I was the mayor when you were in power and also with your party colleague Marasovic I ran but with the project to get some money in both Croatian roads and Croatian highways. That's how the mayors and the mayors used to come when I was a minister. No quality project has ever been rejected. Well, here's a colleague, Baranovic, who knows a project with the EBRD signed with the city of Sibenik, we signed it when it was the EBRD Annual Assembly. I think my colleague Baranovic was with the mayor at the signing. So the project was negotiated and pronounced regardless of what was the other political option. Why? Well, because the city of Sibenik has offered a quality program. Therefore, it should be viewed in such a way. And running is a figurative expression because you can also drive, but you probably can't come from Split, but you can come because a colleague from Hvar sea and boat and must swim and run to come. But if he has a good project, it doesn't matter how he comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69391	Honorable representative Igor Radjenovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69392	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, that's probably why the heads of cities, municipalities and counties buy good cars so they don't run and walk. All right. ... Yeah, especially the one from Vinkovac, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I agree with this context of your debate that we will agree on the good part, actually this report helps in this direction. And I'm glad whenever in this assembly, though, it's usually the afternoon when the camera is gone and depending on the subject, No, there's no, there's a HTV 4, there's a HTV 4 I agree, Max TV and some other but we agree that the morning is more interesting but you're taking away seconds from me now and I wanted to say a lot of things smartly. [[Intruder Leko: There.]] Hello to all the cameras. The first basic thesis that you presented whether reports are sent or not. As far as I know, they're being sent out, nods from the State Audit, so they're being sent to local self-government. Whether they use it or not is a different question now. I also, we all had some lives before, was in the representative body of the largest city of our city, the city of Zagreb and years of reports came to the mayor but he did not think to send them to the representative body. Meanwhile, we have also changed the relationship between the representative body and the mayor and the representative body has decided that the audit reports must come to the meeting of the City Assembly. Therefore, it would be good for all the representative bodies to decide, and I agree with you. Now, you've developed thesis about real estate taxes, it's gonna be more expensive or not. The objective of the real estate tax is right now and you've developed that this will burden local self-government. The difference is between used and unused properties. And that's the difference where local self-government can get rid of things much, much better, and that's where we differ politically whether centralised or decentralisation, whether to lower both powers and responsibilities to local self-government or run this thing and wire in the state administration. That's not a good solution in my court. But where I think we've made a fundamental mistake, I don't know if you'll agree with me on that, and that's income tax and profit. When we set the profit tax which was at the time of HDZ to be a state income and not a local self-government income, then there is no competition for local self-government to bring in certain businesses, etc., just to finish the thought. I think there's this fundamental mistake and we can bring back the story. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69393	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69394	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, colleague Radenovic, this is the first time such a report has been made. I don't know how to send it every year. This is the first time a report has been drawn together like this, but this one. Okay, and as far as income tax and profit tax are concerned, you see there have been divided many Croatian mayors objecting to why Ine, HT, etc. stays in the city of Zagreb and then it was logical for the profit to go to the state and the state to give up part of the income tax and practically you when you look at it at the moment is a complete income tax belonging to the units of local self-government. The state no longer has a lack of income tax, let go of that percentage as much as it goes for decentralised functions but you have an equalisation fund, you have those funds that come back, the return of income tax on behalf of units of local self-government that units of local self-government in the area of special state care do not return and the logical thing that the city of Zagreb lost the most. Why? because the city of Zagreb came 80% of the income tax from Croatia. Now that you look at the tax on THT's profits, what is the tax on the profits of business banks and the total profit of some ten billion kuna from all financial and non-financial institutions is practically 100% to you in the city of Zagreb, and businesses are all over Croatia. It's impossible to calculate in one way or another. That's the same story about VAT. So it was an attempt, maybe it wasn't the happiest, the best. But now it's settled and that's how it is, but you have a chance if you don't agree with that division key you suggest the second key, there's no problem at all. But I repeat, it was a request from the mayor and the chief of the field who practically had nothing from the profit tax, they had from these local companies which unfortunately stood badly, what they stood for, but now with an increased share of income tax everyone gets more especially those smaller and poorer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69395	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Petar Baranovic is a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69396	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker, here you have, in your presentation, made a break from the general tone of this afternoon's discussion which did not very often come down to the scale of things but talked about everything and even about demagogy and used this debate for some kind of pointy political accounting and if you went to watch the dotted results of this revision would come up with a lot of things. It is quite easy for me and my colleague Vidovic to sit in this House this afternoon and listen to this debate because the town of Sibenik received an unconditional opinion for 2012 as a result of the work of colleagues of Zupanović, colleagues of Vidovic, modest and my little ones. Well, then we didn't follow with so much passion, we listened to this debate. In one thing, I'll agree with you, which isn't very common. It would not be bad at all if this report were forwarded to units of local self-government and cities and, on city councils, representative bodies of debate, it would be very likely to smoke in other cities, not only in the city of Rijeka. And it would certainly be quite puzzling for your colleagues on the city council of Sibenik, given the fact that when we arrived in this segment of the business of the city of Sibenik, we encountered a misdemeanor that we were able to overcome and put into such a regulation as one of the few cities in Croatia. In any case, it would be good for this to be an issue of debate and at local level and to put pressure on all the units through this public debate regardless of the political options that lead them because this is an important segment of the city's functioning, and I would say, and it is time for us to start at all levels in this society to line up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69397	Thank you, too. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69398	Well, I don't know about my colleague Baranovic that I saw in this report that the city of Sibenik received unconditional opinion. Of the larger cities there was only the town of Čakovec and the town of Bakar but if so you may have received unconditional report on that finding that was made to you but this is a completely different finding. So, this one, but look, you're also your own argument, and I thought we were going to discuss concrete things, and you're also politicizing your debate, and so the same fellow in Sibenik tells me that you left me scattered, and now it's scattered over there, and then it ends up nowhere you understand. But clearly why I said this report should be sent to local self-government units, so because it's concrete data and then no one can talk about destruction anymore, it can talk about thousands of millions of people and it can't talk about destruction. So I think we in these replicas with our colleagues from the ruling coalition's clubs have quite agreed. Why? because we have talked about problems that affect the leaders of local self-government units because we will always speak to them equally if we respect our citizens no matter what political option it belonged to.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69399	Here's what we've done with all the replicas and all the reports we've reported for discussion on this subject. Now, on behalf of the State Audit Office, Chief State Auditor Ivan Klesic, please choose the respected state auditors. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69400	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's what I'd like to say to Honorable counsel Shucker. I'd just like to answer these two questions. Namely, our reports have been delivered to all legal representatives, so to the mayors and the mayors. We can't do that. We don't put together the agenda of municipal and city councils. So all legal representatives with built-in evidence have been delivered our reports. I would like to answer another question that has been crystallized a little earlier, which is about concessions in the city of Rijeka, which is mentioned in our report, the financial audit carried out, and the revision of the financial statements of the city of Rijeka. He would also respond to respected MPs Shkvoric and Sanader. Through your debate, it crystallised one view that state auditors should consult more, unfortunately, it's not exactly one legal possibility that we have. Namely, there's one opposite you have on one side of reviewing, so control, on the other hand consulting, it's a conflict of interest. So what state auditors can do, which is what we do, and that's our kind of counselling, which is our recommendation that you can read in the reports that we provide to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69401	Thank you, too. That's the end of the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report when the conditions are met. A report on the effectiveness of the collection of income in local and regional self-government units has been carried out. The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I am voting on the following conclusion: - The report on the effectiveness of the collection of income in local and regional self-government units is accepted. Please, who's in favour of the proposed conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 111 votes for and 2 votes are abstentions to the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69403	We're moving on to the next point. This is - Report on the financial audit of political parties, independent representatives and independent members of the representative bodies of the local and/or regional self-government units for 2012. The State Audit Office submitted this Report on the basis of Article 9. Law on the State Audit Office and Article 32 The Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. You've received the motion for an act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. Before I ask the proposer's representative if he wishes to further explain the proposal, I am giving the word to counsel Shuker, who is reporting for the word. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69404	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd just like to warn you without the intention of delaying or sabotaging this debate. We have not yet received an opinion from the Croatian government on this agenda point. And that's why I'm proposing that since our colleagues from the State Audit are here to do a little rotation, to stick to the Rules of Procedure, so we don't break it, to discuss this point that's next and that's local self-government. And since it's supposed to be on the government's agenda today, so I'm asking when we get that opinion on the bench that we're practically discussing this point just because tomorrow someone doesn't say we could discuss it, and now we can't. Well, here's my suggestion, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69405	Although we can conduct the debate without the government's opinion, the government's opinion will be on the bench any minute now. And I welcome this proposal of yours well-intentioned, so we will now discuss the report first on the audit of the effectiveness of the collection of income in units of local and regional (regional) self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69406	We are now going back to - Report on the financial audit of political parties, independent representatives and independent members of the representative bodies of the local and regional (regional) self-government units for 2012. This report was submitted by the State Audit Office on the basis of Article 9(1) of the State Audit Office and Article 32. The Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. You received a proposal from Dad for a report. The debate on this report was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. You received his report at the session. Does the State Audit Office want a representative? Yeah. Dear Chief State Auditor Ivan Klešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69407	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and esteemed MPs. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Financing of Political Activity and Election Promotion, the Office provided the Croatian Assembly with a report on the financial audit of political parties, independent representatives and independent members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government for 2012. A year. The audit includes 25 political parties, 6 independent representatives and 12 independent members of local unit representative bodies. The financial reports and business of political parties are expressed by 12 unconditional and 13 conditional opinions. For independent representatives, 5 unconditional and 1 conditional opinion has been expressed, and 9 unconditional and 3 conditional opinions have been expressed for 12 independent members of local units' representative bodies. In addition to the audits mentioned, the office carried out all activities related to the verification of the delivery and publication of annual financial reports by all political parties that, according to the HIDR data, worked in the Republic of Croatia during 2012, were 123, 6 independent representatives and all 867 independent members of local unit representative bodies. Out of a total of 123 political parties' financial reports for 2012 it was mandatory to submit and publish on the 100 parties' websites. These are those with the value of assets in the previous three years above 100 thousand kuna at year level and annual income consecutively over the previous three years above 100 thousand kuna. The verification found that 39 political parties submitted annual financial reports within the prescribed time limit until 61 parties provided or provided these reports within the regulatory time limit. As far as independent deputies are concerned, they all delivered these reports within the legal time limit. Of the 867 independent members of the representative bodies, 296 provided annual financial reports within the prescribed deadline or a declaration confirming that they are not obliged to submit these reports while 281 an independent member is delivered outside the prescribed deadline and even 290 have not delivered this report. As regards the verification of the publication of the annual financial reports which these entities were obliged to publish by 1 March 2013, the State Audit Office established that 37 political parties had published annual financial reports within the prescribed deadline and 63 parties had not published or had not published within the prescribed deadline. Of the 6 independent MPs, 2 MPs have not submitted their annual reports or published within the prescribed time limit. As regards independent members of local units of 867, 133 published the annual financial report within the prescribed period, 102 outside the prescribed deadline until 632 published the financial report. The Office has notified the competent authorities of non-compliance with the provisions of the Law on the financing of political activities and electoral promotion, and has submitted to 63 local units a proposal to suspend the payment of funds for the regular annual financing of independent members of representative bodies which have not submitted or published annual financial reports within the legal period. What I would like to point out in particular is that the office in all audits is carrying out a check on donors of political parties and suppliers of goods, as well as contractors of works and services in state bodies, local units and all other bonds of application of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. Mr. President, esteemed MPs and esteemed MPs thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69408	Thank you, too, Chief State Auditor. Does a representative of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget want a report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We're going to debate the club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Club of Independent Representatives is next to the Honorable Representatives Grubisic and Cain. There's not one, they're losing the right to discuss this matter. Next is the HNS Club and respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69409	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Auditors with associates and associates, ladies and gentlemen. After these discussions, which could be quite temperament in previous points at this point, the debate on the finding of a review of the financial audit of political parties, independent representatives and independent members of the representative bodies of local and regional (regional) self-government for 2012. I would call it a simpler language, a policy that makes laws as formal frameworks of some of its thinking how and how to run this society. In these laws, it imposes standards of conduct, conduct, assesses the degree of responsibility if you make mistakes, prescribes conjecture if you mistake legal and physical persons, so to citizens of entrepreneurs, institutions. And then it would be very good if, once we take that role as a political party, that the order that is necessary should be introduced into Croatian society is introduced primarily in our courtyards, so that with full law and full authority we can prescribe how and how they will behave and what obligations they will respect, Croatian citizens will take over. This revision was made in accordance with the international audit made in accordance with international audit standards according to certain principles which are not only our specific principles but are the principles of the functioning of the audit. It covered revenues and expenditures, ways of obtaining income, correctness of bookkeeping, showing, credible display in financial documents. In one word, she scanned the regularity of the work, the financial work of political parties. So, the authority that prescribes everything in this society and what the findings of this revision are quite similar to those of previous years, and this time I find it quite easy to speak for this speaker. Because all I'm going to mention is the name of my party, and I'm going to try so hard to be so correct. The Croatian People's Party is already not sure which year in a row has received an unconditional report for its business. However, there are parties that are not. Of course, this does not give up the formal right to present in this High House or representative bodies at the level of counties, cities and municipalities their views in a democratic manner and leaders and representatives of those parties who have been given a conditional opinion for many years in a row, which show greater or less irregularities and show up in audit reports. 105 and 115 million kunas of the total revenue generated by these parties, including 13 parliamentary parties as the most important of all, so right now, the most important political options in the country are covered by 12 other parties that have slightly more significant revenues. So 115 million kunas, most of which are part of the state budget and the budget of the units of local self-government. What's he saying? It is not about the dominant income given voluntarily through membership fees by members of these parties, who have voluntarily defined the essence of party members, participate in their work, but rather about the funds of Croatian citizens, the funds of Croatian citizens who have been paid through various taxes and budgets of cities, municipalities, county and state budgets. The responsibility in spending this money should be at the highest possible level. It is simply amazing, and therefore I stress a well-intentioned appeal without taking any party out of the context of this debate individually, it would be good, really, before we go and before we take our right to be representatives of anyone. It would be good for all of us, in our political parties, to continue to work hard on how we, who are unconditional so far, and those who have yet to do so, to get in line. It's a demagogy, it's a true demagogy to come to this high house, to share lessons and to have a conditional opinion because of a major or minor violation of the law. But ladies and gentlemen for breaking the law in financial business. So, it's no problem that someone went to the wrong myst road, it's not a guard who's walking, though it's also a violation of the law. This is about the business and credibility of showing the business of political parties. Therefore, those who have received the trust of citizens and voters, who play a crucial role in the management of this society, create its fate, who take for themselves the right to praise and where, to suggest, criticise, and ultimately create, prescribe and vote laws that have an obligation to citizens, create an obligation for citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Political parties that create laws in which there are criminal consequences for breaking the law. Political parties who are citizens of this country for their business, which is completely normal for 115 million kuna in 2012. And they need to earn income in this way, because that creates the possibility of doing their jobs fairly, correctly, and not being subject to corruption, crime and anything else. But when we get money from the economy of this country, from the citizens of this country from which our work is financed, then it is a minimum of responsibility and decency to receive unconditional reports not wanting to mention any party further by name on behalf of the HNS club in any case to praise all those political options that have received unconditional opinion and recommendations, now not audital but human, political, those who did not get unconditional opinion that it would be correct before we start talking about demagogy to see things in their home. In any case, we believe that the practice of analysis of the business of political parties is necessary, that this report is very transparent and correct, according to me, I am not an expert in the revision but by reading it I have received a complete picture of what was in principle. The HNS Club will, of course, support this report. And with another note, in general, all political parties including mine have been stegmatized in this society, and the pedestal has often been placed in the media by citizens involved in politics, independent, without the intention that anything, to anyone we Dalmatians say, has gone to waste, but in some cases such forms of politics have proved insufficiently responsible, unsatisfactory and insufficiently professional. There are therefore independent council members who have received a conditional opinion and who have found irregularities in business. They're not parties, and they shouldn't be the most evil in this society. Even though he's trying to put us in context that way. With a correct, legitimate business, pedantic bookkeeping, a credible display of business, we can at least take off at least part of the Stigm we are forced to do, at least partly. Because unfortunately as much as any of us, either at party or individual level, correctly and honestly doing your job, you will rarely get the cover for something good you did and very often you will stretch to God's justice. So let us not let ourselves, and also for the sake of mental health in this society, in order to establish criteria, in order to create true authority in politics, let us not allow ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, in future reports 50% of those covered by the revision to receive unconditionally and 50% of the conditional opinion because this conditional opinion is generally as a questionnaire over the head of Croatian politics. On behalf of the HNS Club, once again, we will support this report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69410	Thank you, too. Now an inter-club replica, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69411	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm not very fond of these inter-club replicas, however, except of course I agree with your exposure. You have touched the legitimacy itself if it has unconditional, conditional not to say we have no other opinions than conditional and unconditional political parties that manage both resources and state or local self-government. I must admit that at this point, it should also be said that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are investing in the state budget, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to be and organise themselves in political parties, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of all information and choose those who will represent them and decide on the allocation of the budget. Likewise, when it comes to responsibility and our parties, as well as to all parties today, that the way the state's audit works and access to this business is not only in local self-government and in general that we have discussed in previous points in the review of political parties, we can indeed say that the work of political parties is being given a high legitimacy because the approach and the way in which the maximum is avoided and controlled is essentially possible and the various donations and corruption is potentially prevented by this way of control. And that's an extremely positive thing. But I also have to point out that we have some third, fourth, five paths that appear and want to run the state and local self-government, and I don't know how we can control their business when they haven't actually realized the possibility of the State's revision looking at them. And it would be very good to know how they do it or work so that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia don't risk who might represent them tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69412	Replica response, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69413	I gave my colleague Gjurkovic an accent on what I consider to be fundamental. We spend money on citizens of the Republic of Croatia, spend money on people who live very hard, and when they spend swears collected under these circumstances in which their donors actually live, i.e. taxpayers and other donations, then it is credible and proper to operate at a minimum of the total credibility of a political option or individual. It's unacceptable for me that for many years in some cases the same things appear. What I'm trying to say as part of the answer to your replica is that it's a hard enough time to make difficult decisions that even if we're absolutely correct in all the other segments, we'll be looked at wrongly, what they say in Dalmatia around the eye with a wrong view. We do not need in Croatian politics to see us through the glass of people who spend other people's money in an unfair way. And that is why we appeal once again to everyone in this House of Higher Education and generally in the Croatian politics of colleagues who have decided to do this ungrateful work today to ensure the correctness of our business and the functioning of our options that we represent and in which we have found our political space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69414	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69415	Dear counterpart Baranovic would not have come forward if I hadn't heard the word demagogue you used in the right context. Because we often hear here from the constituency speakers about honesty, about justice, about justice, about work, about work, okay, and who says it? Politicians whose parties are doing bad, wrong, whose laws are not followed, are breaking the laws. Therefore, I will not mention any name, or any party. And then with my finger on it, there's the Labour Demagogues. The second time you use that word, look at yourself in your yard, sweep where you need to move. It's demagogy to talk about justice, honesty, work, order, and you're not fair or fair yourself because that's what the review says, I don't think about the parties personally. You support the parties to work badly and we here should be an example of honesty, work and respect for the law, and later I will say on behalf of the club how we should do and what with the parties that break the laws year after year. The companies that break the laws close, fail, only the parties don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69416	Replica response, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69417	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vukšić and today is one of the few of those days when we agree on a certain thing is quite true today was demagogy in the Croatian Parliament, it was beyond the limits of good taste and I know that you will take advantage of the opportunity to react to it and you have reacted quite correctly with full right. I agree equally with you that we must be an example, the first example from this House from this political level, this level that assumes the fundamental responsibility of any opposition in the power to function in this society, must be an example of how and how to act, operate without impeccable respect for Croatian laws, especially regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69418	Thank you, too. Let's move on to the debate. It is their HDSSB club and respected representative Boro Grubosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69419	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Chief State Auditor with associates and associates, so I don't forget. Well, it's funny to me, this, I have to say, I didn't get a chance right away to rephrase that some people here who speak don't recognize themselves, even though I think they've been directly criticized for this constantly mentioned pulsism, etc. But we're not gonna talk about it. So, it seems to me that when we look at this report and the money spent on financing political parties that political parties in the Republic of Croatia behave as non-incomes and live as non-incomes, and almost on the incubator, those incubator without an infusion by the state and units of local self-government and regional self-government actually wouldn't survive, especially when we look at the report and the donations, the memberships, and when we refuse what the state gives, that the Law on political parties, so on the success of elections and later on in any of the representative bodies, actually so. If there were no such donation, and if there were no such donations from the state and the political party could not exist because those figures and the amounts mentioned in the membership fee are nothing. What does that mean? That our citizens, as Baranovic said from his taxes, cut and the rest through state and central state and central state and local and regional self-government authorities finance political parties. When we look at the amounts and compare those amounts, then we see that it is indeed I would like to know some other European countries or whether it goes for example. Mr. Clinton, Obama or any man candidate for President of the United States in elections without at least $200 million in personal wealth, which, I know, there's a donation there too, etc., but the United States as a country rewards nothing, he's the president or the ruling party, etc. What in this report can we read? We can read that there are 140 parties in Croatia. Some of them are not covered by the revision, so I, as some former leader of the Croatian Republican Peasant Party's action, went to the MUP about the invitation of the State Attorney to give a report on the party, did what it had to do with any traffic in 2012 and was it there, was it also made up of its incomes and expenditures? Although I haven't been in that party in eight years but nominally, I have even been president even though the party doesn't exist anymore. There are such parties now that we would look at, when we look at this report and I will, I can even count them even though it might not be nice to have you listed here at the Assembly. My little Međimurje, the League for the Ship, therefore there are them everywhere, Central European Action, the Parliament of Croatian Roma, the party of ordinary people, and I don't know yet let's look at the Paška Party, the Pločan Party, the Croatian Liberation Movement, the Croatian Bell, the Block of Farmers of Croatia, our Party, the Movement for Modern Croatia, the Croatian Democratic Regional Party, I would not like to add any more. I wonder if this report wouldn't exist if there weren't any such parties that actually don't exist anymore. It was much shorter, more content, spent less paper and Croatian forests and your CDs on this devil, so we'd have some reports, some 40, let's say active active parties, would. When any party is formed, then the statute states that the party stops the work of the final assembly. So the assembly has to finish where the party says it's gone. So, yes, yes, all the parties signed it from each other, so the statutes are done, the Lower Resave school, do they, from the Lower Resava, say that the party ceases to work and exist when the Assembly decides, yes. However, when the party disappears and ceases, when it falls apart, no one maintains that final, mortal to say under quotes, the assembly of that party. And then it still exists in the HYDRA reports, you have, every year you get a book that lists 140 parties, and actually there are maybe no more than 40, 50 in Croatia. It's standing, but it certainly doesn't exist. It doesn't exist anymore, it doesn't exist, it doesn't work, it doesn't work at all. For what more, for 20 years in Croatia we haven't arranged this space? And I got a call from HYDRA, is there a party I used to be a member of? It doesn't exist, but we held the final assembly and split up. And so I've been president all along, in the papers I've been president of that party for 10 years now. There, and now we're only going to review our parties. What to say about terms and conditions, says Mr. Baranovic, 50-50. Yes, 50:50, but no one has unconditional opinions, so it's conditionally transient, the two, the clean two. I mean, we can't criticise a conditional opinion now, yeah, conditionally. ... So it's a problem, but it's not a passing opinion, it's unconditional, so according to INTOSAI methodology. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] unconditionally, you have a conditional and unconditional opinion. [[Adversity President: Don't suggest, a representative will know what to say.]] So what's unconditionally improbable, it's a unit, this is already two, three, and it's unconditionally pure five if we could translate it into school grades. Thus, the unconditional opinion says, it says here that it is expressed for 12 parties and 13 is conditional opinions for parties that, it says here have over 100,000 kunas of total income. Those other parties are also numbered, they are listed here. It shall indicate how much revenue the party has from the state budget, how much revenue from the budget of local units. This also shows success in the election, in fact, and this is a statisticalally good data that can give us arguments when we talk about success in the elections. When we look at two, let's say, that red and blue party according to their thoughts, the main parties in the Republic of Croatia, so HDZ and SDP, HDZ 32% of the total income, so parties, and SDP 30.4%, so these two parties almost have a 2/3 of the total income. So that's maybe, here's only one, I'm not going to say I'm against it, that's the fact that it's standing there. Now all we know is that some of these parties are a little late to report their incomes, so they get a fine from the commission, but that's good, it's all human. So when we speak to parliamentary parties, one of my parties, to say right away, she got, thank God and here's the work of our accountants, got a unconditional assessment, without any mistake for 2012. From the extraparliamentary parties, therefore, it is evident that, given the revenues remaining only from the units of local and regional self-government, only the Croatian Social Liberal Party and Croatia, excuse me, are the long columns, HSLS and the Croatian Party of Rights that have obvious council members or mayors here and there, and then these revenues from units of local and regional self-government. So, the sentence on page 5 is interesting, that political parties, so in 2012, received voluntary contributions or donations from 512 natural and 71 legal persons, so 512 natural persons, so all parties received 512 donations from natural persons and 71 donations from legal persons. Some other proceeds from the lease, from the sale of apartments, etc., the sale of assets, interest, etc. It's $4 million and 700 thousand. It may be said by the parties, how where, but given the very extensive material, therefore the precise material of each of the parties, I will not take you so deeply in view of the time away. Anyway, the report itself is very well written regardless of how right or wrong it is, but of those who are rated by the State Audit and really have no objection to the report itself, and that we are, in fact, not to tell the mammals of Croatian citizens, and through these institutions of the state and regional self-government and to live, now the question is just how much we respect these citizens, as far as we do for them, that's another thing. So the HDSSB will be, clearly, fully for this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69420	Thank you, too. The replica of the respected advocates of Hope Jelash. Nadice Jelash, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69421	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, counterpart Grubisic, you stressed in your debate that parliamentary parties are financed to the greatest extent by taxpayers' money. So as many as 92% of parliamentary parties' revenues are alluded to from the state budget and the budget of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government. And that fact itself obliges those resources to be legally available and I really agree with you that the conditional opinion of the State Audit Office in this case is very difficult to accept. So it would be really good if all the reports were unconditional. Somewhere around 6% of the party's income comes from membership fees, and just about that fact, so on the participation of the funds raised from the membership fees, I have one remark. Namely, what they say is that the biggest HDZ party declares 220 thousand members and those of the membership fee, and this is evident from Table 1 of this report, earning revenue from membership fee 2.3 million kuna. The next party by number let's say the members of the SDP have 40,000 members, and achieves a greater amount than the membership fee, so 2.6 million kuna. How is that possible? How do you interpret that?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69422	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69423	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yeah, that I have all the data. [[Intruder Leko: You have information from HDZ.]] ZANA finds out everything. So this is how Mrs. Nadice Jelash sees we have the same 40,000 members as SDP and he didn't have any kunas from membership fees, because we prescribed that there was no membership fee in HDSSB, so there's no membership fee. Members do not pay membership fees and this is prescribed by the HDSSB Statute. You have even how much? 2 2.5 million of you have put quite a burden on your members and the HDZ on this, it turns out that their membership fee per article 10 kuna per year, as far as I've calculated, is that right? Now is it like that or isn't it I don't know. But you obviously have maybe 100 kuna, and their 10 and now there's a cheaper party, what you can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69424	Thank you very much. We will now hear everything on behalf of the HDZ Club in the Croatian Parliament. Honored representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69425	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Gentlemen of the State Audit. It's nice when colleagues from the most competitive party take care of how we pay the membership fee. Our majority of members who have fewer incomes don't pay membership fees, and this is most of the membership fees from the officials. However, as we have already accepted this, it is very interesting how we at the Croatian Parliament like to play with words, when we discussed the State Audit report on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia this morning, then it was not at all a conditional opinion for ministers belonging to one political option, however, it was great. Now that we're discussing political parties, that's the problem. Now I would like my colleagues and colleagues just for the sake of correctness, etc. Let's say that you saw specifically why my HDZ party received a conditional opinion. But I look forward to finding the State Review for the political parties for 2013, so let's see if the same criteria are going to be, but I'm saying about that. However, I have loved to play with numbers all my life and I follow numbers so it's very interesting on the HDZ's income side when it all comes together is in power somewhere in 55, 56% of the local self-government unit, so the county, cities and municipalities. Some parties are in power only in one small part of Croatia, and they participate in the government with a small percentage in one part of Croatia, so when you look at the revenues from the budget of the local self-government unit, then it is very interesting that the party in power in 55, 56% of the local self-government unit participates in the total revenues from the local self-government unit budget only with 26, 27%. It's very interesting that no one had that information stabbed in the eyes. Or another piece of information, and it's called donations from voluntary contributions and donations. It's very interesting when the parties come to power how these revenues from voluntary contributions and donations jump, and when you walk away from power as you fall. Look at that, I mean it's on the trail. No, don't look at your colleagues and colleagues and you'll see. So let's discuss the data they're writing here. So that's it. And also very interesting are other revenues and then you see party officials paying 30, 40 thousand voluntary incomes to party officials. You can see that. I was the finance minister when I agreed to a political party in charge, so this assignment was planned for some 15 MPs, and after the election they had four or five MPs and the loan was returned neatly, and the total loan was given to 15 MPs. But I didn't see that remark in the State Audit report. So there's a variety of information, but I don't think it's time to talk about it, but to talk about what the problems are, why some of them got paroled, some unconditionally, and that frankly speaking political parties in Croatia are turning 115 million kuna a year. and that the logical thing would be ideal if the business of political parties were ideal if everyone got unconditional opinion and then probably wouldn't be shooting here then it would be unconditionally unconditional, conditionally conditional on whatever segment of the State Audit. But look, all of a sudden, the internal control system has become something that's primary, and if it's not organized by all the construction units, and these are county committees, then that's one reason you're going to get a conditional opinion. but if you have an internal control at the party's central level and that internal control is leading to coordination with the people who conduct financial operations on the county boards, no it is not good must be based on each. Now look, it doesn't really matter if you have a party like size like SDP and HDZ you have in every county organization you have a large number of people set up. Will you thus organize it or someone who in some counties has very few parties and in principle his party functions more significantly only in several counties. But I'm saying, that's what I'm talking about. I just want to discuss the facts. Also, if you write off one county organization 200 thousand kuna and that is probably why you will get a conditional, not unconditional opinion. It is also problematic why units of local self-government are not one political party, but probably a practice for all political parties in one city. If one political party received free space, then all political parties received it or received a symbolic lease. And those are the facts. And we can here in the Parliament and pass the law that it can't go like that, that it goes at market prices and then eventually it's going to be spilling from hollow to empty. Councilors will take the city council or municipal or county assembly to decide that they have a higher fee per member of the parties' council, to turn these money into a business space lease later. Therefore, I personally think if the same rule is for all political parties in one city, if space is given without compensation that no one has made any mistake. Why? Because political parties are one of the most vital parts of a city's functioning. They are the ones who are the ones who are the people of the city who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who And if that's the city council's decision to get some sort of symbolic amount that you can't if you have most of the cities in the Republic of Croatia have places for political parties in one building where virtually all political parties are. Well, you can't call a contest to rent that space to a good god, if you've set up a building there and what makes sense for political parties. The political parties share that space, pay for cleaning together, use common spaces, and you never have a conflict so I don't know how much we're fighting like this. But you never have any problems. And now tell me how you're going to call a competition for one of those spaces. So let's not make ourselves any trouble and be bigger Catholic than the Pope. But this is one of the reasons why HDZ has received a conditional not unconditional opinion, because in certain cities and municipalities there is room without compensation. So that's it. I sincerely hope that all these shortcomings that are, four are why HDZ got, and I told them publicly we don't want them to be under the rug that got him a conditional opinion. In 2013, it will be removed and it will certainly be an unconditional opinion. But I repeat, I am far more intrigued by this table on page 4. So when you look at a little income structure first of all from local self-government units. You have parties that have no income at all from membership because they have made such a decision. But I'm saying, these revenues are very interesting, voluntary contributions and other incomes that make up a total of 46 make up about 7.6 million. That's 7% of your total income. I say revenues from voluntary contributions are very interesting. When you're in power, I repeat that you're growing, and when you're not in power, then you fall. So, my colleagues and colleagues, I think we should all act on these reports being unconditional to everyone in our political option, and we should also treat the word unconditionally equally when it suits us and doesn't suit us. Also, the words conditional on us and when we don't fit, and trust me as a minister of finance who was a 7-year-old minister, I have a series of information that I might have, but it doesn't occur to me to bring out here what political parties are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69426	Thank you, too. Replica of Honored Representatives Ana Komaračić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69427	Your Honor, I thank you. I actually just wanted to refer to the part where you said you didn't see the problem that the parties were all under the same conditions, i.e. free of charge in some places. And I agree with you, and it used to be so in most cities, but since from 1.1.2014 we have to account for 25% of VAT on rent space, and the parties will have to end up at the end of the bidding because they must now go to the competition. All these spaces not only for parties but also for other associations that used the first city spaces for free now will have to change the conditions. We'll just all meet in trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69428	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69429	Well, look, we're the ones who make the laws. We're the ones who bring the nebulose. One of the nebuloses we will have opportunities to discuss on behalf of the Law on Non-profit Organisations to come, which you will see, which many NGOs, the institutions of this country that are very important to help those to whom this assistance is most important, will lead to a situation that they will not be able to exist. So these are our nebuloses. If we know we have such cases, then how can we pass such a law? And now you can think about it when we make such a law for entrepreneurs, and unfortunately we bring it in. I said it on purpose because I know what's waiting for us because we passed such a law. And when we said we weren't passing such a law, that we would jump by our own necks no one would listen. Here I am warning you in advance of the law on the accounting of non-profit organisations. And the current laws fully determine that one who wishes can control all non-profit organisations. Is that the IRS? Is that the State Audit? But no. We want bigger pops to point out that we need to control Mommy. Someone fits at this point in time to say that we need to control the Catholic Church. So let him make that decision. And when that's why he's facing a million and one problem with people who are disabled and people who really need help, then we're going to say why we did it. So you tell me, I said it was logical if the city had one space where there were always political alliances, from alliances of communists, socialist alliances. If the 1990s political parties came in and how new political parties were born, they would have room for the city not to make a decision and not to have that space without a reward, and the parties would pay and share directorial costs. And then how can you bring VAT into that? I mean, because the city's not in the VAT system. So you can't even charge for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69430	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69431	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished auditors with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the report immediately. The report is good, transparent and kind. In his brief statement because there is not much to say without going into some debate that may even follow the blows below the belt and that there is no fire, I will not mention the name of any party because it would be unfair to mention some and not mention everything if we talk about the same problems. In order not to collect, colleagues often say that, cheap political points. I will only mention the name of one party, and these are Croatian Labourists. We've got unconditional opinion. Since we exist, we have financial reports mostly every time we get an unconditional opinion. Why is that so important? Well, that's exactly what I was saying in the replica. We are chosen here in the name of the people not to be the worst or to be worse than those who chose us but to lead the state, to set an example for others, to talk about morality here in the House. Well, they often say no politicians, no moral verticals. However, I remember a controversy here in the Parliament when a parliamentary representative gave me a lesson and then got a verdict in court and a final verdict. And that's when I told him, don't give him any lessons. But all my colleagues took it as perfectly normal. And it's perfectly normal for half the parties who need to submit the Financial Report to get a conditional opinion. I say that's why it's too good, even it's perfectly normal for some parties to get a conditional opinion from year to year and then give employers lessons about how they should do business. And they didn't sweep the trash off their doorstep. With what right? Why is politics so low in the eyes of citizens? Why aren't we enjoying our reputation? So how we're going to enjoy our reputation when people, tax-paying citizens, know how we behave. I'm talking politics, total politics, all politicians and all parties. Not only are politicians boasting about functions, so when they come in as they say they've caught God by the chin and they're buying angry cars that they couldn't afford from the complex because they think as much horsepower as possible, I'm a bigger man, whether it's a woman or a man. Now we see that women are celebrating it just as much as men, if not more. I think the parties in all these cases, we've seen, defend their members. Let the institutions of the state do their job. Yesterday we had a top state attorney here and we know, at least in the opinion of the Croatian Labourists, how institutions do their jobs. By hunting political dead people. Not only are very highly-positioned politicians and proven kleptomaniacs, not to condemn it, but we always relativize it, so you know, it's just one, so we're not all like that. And we all raised our hands for him and defended him and said that those who attacked him were the enemies of the Croatian state. And now we say nothing happened, so what, he's responsible for his actions and we're not. What morals were we doing here in the Parliament? Not only do politicians hire their party friends and their relatives, politicians allow their parties to become unsettled. And that's unimaginable. Why don't they ask their president, who's in charge of business, which is why we get a conditional opinion from year to year or why this year? Why are we, how are we Parliamentarians now going to teach lessons about good business and respect for the law when we don't respect the law? Some late, some don't give this, papers, you can see in the report that we're not repeating what's in the report. Well, then those who do that say you're a populist. No, we're not populists, we accepted that label. We're populists, we're saying what the people don't want to hear, but what the people are saying, we're moving here from the pay phone. Because there is no greater populistism than this 2 years are in the Parliament but not from a minority than most. I'd like to warn one thing that's not an auditor's mistake and an audit that's when we're beating the MPs on an independent basis. It's a law mistake. Imagine a representative who was 20 and a few years in one party and then rushed him out of the party or left the party alone, bowed to another party but formally gained independent status, not addiction. He's the one who hooked up with them and then he's independent. Well, come on! And when people hear that, so you see those politicians immoral, they're just unbiased. There's no independent politician, I've never seen an independent politician tell you the truth, I haven't seen an independent politician. I'm sorry, there's no Mr. Caine, he's independent, and he votes for everything most people say to him. He's a bigger advocate of this government than members of the Kukuriku coalition, and he's being held independent. Just to correct my colleague, I think in 2012, if the correct revision was determined by 123 parties. I also appeal from this place to remove what is not good in the Law on Political Parties, which is that those dead parties, which do not act, parties like here Mr Grubisic spoke who really exist only on paper, must have some measure to simply delete those parties from the list. We have to make it, bring it to Parliament, because we're making fun of it. You know what they say, 10 Croats 11 parties. Let's cut it out, it's not that we don't democratically end the parties now, but the party doesn't work then it doesn't work, we only have it on paper, so they say there are 123 parties and what they are, they're all the same, and even no party is just on paper. Since we get more than 90% of the money given to us by citizens who dig through garbage cans, pensioners who don't have enough money to make ends meet, we don't have the right to conditional opinion, we don't have the right to conditional opinion. We have no right not to be at least financially, if we have the right to political delusions, if we have the right to ideological delusions, but we do not have the right to spend non-transparent money on Croatian citizens. We have no right to do that. It is necessary to amend the law that three years after, legal penalties should be passed that after three years of parole, something is wrong with that party. Therefore, we will grow in reputation, politicians, the Parliament, all the state bodies when we start acting the way we ask Croatian citizens to behave and then say look who's giving us lessons, those who don't know how to run the finances, who are dealing under the table because the doubt falls on everything. After this I hope the Croatian Labourists will support because we are not a monolithic party so we all have to vote the same, I am now speaking in my own imam, I am speaking for the club, and I will support this report. It would be good for all parties to take great care of it and I am also calling once again on the Presidency of the Parliament to separate one item of the agenda on the work itself of the Parliament, its reputation, the status of politics in Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69432	Thank you, too. Does the Proposer's representative want the closing word? No, I don't. That's why we've exhausted all the people we've reported. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report when the conditions are met. Report on the financial audit carried out by the political parties of independent representatives and independent members of the units of local and regional self-government for 2012. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. The report shall be adopted on the financial audit carried out by the political parties of independent representatives and independent members of the representative bodies of the local, regional self-government units for 2012. Who's to suggest a conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed conclusion has been accepted by most votes, 111 votes and 1 vote against. ... We'll have to do it again. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, let's do it again. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, can we do it again? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find the proposed conclusion accepted by most votes, 110 for, 1 vote against and 1 vote abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69435	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. In accordance with the plan and programme of work, the State Audit Office carried out a financial audit in 30 hospital health institutions from September 2012 to March 2013. The audit covers financial reports and operations of all clinical hospital centres, clinical hospitals and general hospitals in the Republic of Croatia whose total income and receipts for 2012 are 9.5 billion kuna, which accounts for more than 85% of the income and receipts of all hospital, health institutions in the Republic of Croatia. As with all others, this audit has been carried out in accordance with IntoSEI international audit standards and the audit objectives have been to determine the truthfulness and credibility of financial reports, to check compliance with the laws and regulations and to verify and assess the effectiveness of the use of funds. In accordance with the audit standards and on the basis of the facts established, opinions on financial reports and business have been expressed. For two general hospitals, the General Hospital of Karlovac and the General County Hospital of Pozega expressed unconditional opinion while the conditional opinion was expressed for all others. The conditional opinion was influenced by irregularities relating to accounting business, income, expenditure, claims and obligations and, of course, public procurement. The most frequent irregularities in accounting business relate to the non-compliance of certain data and incorrect recording of business events in business books and not to the implementation of a full list of assets and liabilities. Irregularities related to accounting operations directly affect the accuracy and reality of financial reports. Irregularities related to revenues were observed in the pursuit of their own incomes, hospitals did not take measures to collect claims or to take collection measures were not effective. Most irregularities were seen in expenditures, the most significant expenditure in almost all hospitals was expenditure on salaries that were up to 70% in the spending structure of certain hospitals. The audit identified irregularities in the application of the coefficients of the complexity of the transactions in the accounting of duty on duty and preparedness and of the corresponding pay additives. Different treatment of hospitals in cumulative working relationships has also been observed. Compared to 2010, the number of employees increased by 435 people, the majority of employment hospitals did not obtain prior consent from the minister and in certain cases the public tender was not carried out. Furthermore, the internal labour system acts have shown that in some cases the actual number of employees is greater than the number provided for in the systematisation and a certain number of employees deployed to non-systematisation jobs. In addition, certain regular activities of hospitals have been carried out through a work contract, continuously throughout the business year. The value of expenditure in all hospitals is the cost of medicines and medical consumables. The audit found that, at the end of the year, most hospitals do not carry out a list of medicinal products and consumables in the organisational units and that they do not take into account the amount of medicinal products and medical material contained in the supply plan. Irregularities are also seen in the process of supplying goods, works and services. Without the public procurement procedures, procurement is worth 1.3 billion kuna of which the most significant part relates to the purchase of medicines. The comparison of medical equipment prices per hospital found that the same equipment was obtained from the same suppliers at significantly different prices, although prescribed procurement procedures were carried out, it was observed that medical equipment was obtained for the same purpose of different technical characteristics, therefore different prices. All hospitals showed significant obligations at the end of the year, with suppliers agreed payment deadlines up to 240 days from the day of delivery, and due to the failure to pay commitments within the time limits of a particular hospital, they showed a commitment of more than 365 days. Total liabilities were 72% higher than total claims, almost all hospitals achieved a lack of revenue over expenditure, i.e. they showed a negative financial result for 2011. Negative trends in business hospitals were continued, so most hospitals showed a lack of income for 2012, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia made decisions in 2013 on the recovery of health institutions. The rehabilitation of health institutions was conducted in earlier years in such a way that funds from the state budget are covered by hospital obligations towards drug suppliers and consumer medical material. Following the settlement of the obligations of a particular hospital, the office therefore expressed its view that the results of the recovery would not be long-term if the hospital’s obligations were not met and activities were not taken to eliminate the causes resulting from the loss in business. In addition to activities to be undertaken by each hospital, which are related to business rationalisation, certain areas of business need to be systematically and normably regulated, as our office has also drawn attention to. All data on financial reports and hospital operations for 2011, orders and recommendations from the State Audit Office relating to irregularities identified by the audit, the State auditors indicated in the individual audit reports submitted to you and published on the website of the National Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia. A report on the financial audit carried out by hospital health institutions has also been submitted to the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69436	Thank you, too, the Honorable Chief State Auditor. We have one replica, the respected representative of Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69437	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here I would say a few words, so replicated, but I hope that certainly Mr. Auditor won't be able to answer me for the reason he mentioned two hospitals in his report when he said the hospital in Požega received unconditional opinion, the hospital in Karlovac received unconditional opinion. I ask the question, then why was the headmaster transferred to Karlovac who has an unconditional opinion? Why is the hospital in Pozega back two years doing business with the loss? And this is all about the reforms that have taken place in the hospitals and in which we swear that we have done well, and we see that in the 2012 report these hospitals were extremely well and not only '12, but back 10 years ago Požeška hospital, and I am sure the hospital in Karlovac is doing extremely well. I repeat once again, the appointed director in Karlovac, for what? In Požega back two years of losses, and you will see this in the 2013 report, from an extremely good hospital we have made a very bad hospital due to the current health policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69438	Thank you, too. Do the representatives or presidents of the working bodies of the Committee of the Croatian Parliament want? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate, we're going to the representatives' clubs. I call on the respected representative Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin. They're gone. They're losing the right to discuss this. The SDP club and the respected representative of Hrvoja Nekic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69439	President-in-Office of the Parliament, chief state auditors with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. So I see that at this point as well as at all today's points trying to politicize, trying to collect some political points unargumented. So, but here I would really like to commend the completeness and expertise of the reports ahead of us. So, at the very beginning of its 2011 report on the revision of the hospital health institutions, I must say that the situation that was discovered and found after the audit was really worrying, and I don't mean the work of doctors and nurses doing their job as professionally and professionally as possible. Of course, there are exceptions as there are in any business, but they are fortunately rare, in this business really professionalism is the most important thing. What was found in the hospital system after the audit was carried out, and what best indicates is the finding that after the revision of the 30 hospital centres covered by the audit only gave 2 unconditional opinions, while 28 institutions issued a conditional opinion that best says what condition was found and what condition the hospital system was left in, of course when we talk about the financial side of the hospital system. The most difficult thing is to make order in a mess, it should, it should, and it will need to work in the future. This is a process that lasts continuously and continuously, and also let us not forget that these necessary changes should ensure the normal functioning of the system. In the hospital management system itself, a series of shortcomings were identified and the findings of the audit and often were not known what the left hand was doing and what the right hand was saying. I will not rely too much on figures here, but I would like to clearly and unequivocally point out the shortcomings or better said irregularities regarding planning and accounting operations in hospitals that have certainly affected the efficiency of the financial operations of hospitals. So most hospitals didn't bring business projections for the next two years. The main book is established, however, there is no record of drugs and consumables. Incomplete accounting documents, cashier’s business, different records of income for the financing of decentralised functions, the cost-financing itself did not apply the principle of occurrence, nor the recording of certain long-term material assets, the correction of depreciation values, did not apply the prescribed rates. Most hospitals do not provide the necessary information to the State Property Management Agency and certainly all of this has an impact on the accuracy and relevance of the financial reports. Who's responsible? Well, I'm sure most of the responsibility lies with the principals, but we can't transfer all responsibility to the principals exclusively to one person. Part of the responsibility is certainly also on the control mechanisms, part of the internal audit, that is, the internal form of control over budgetary resources. Let me just remind you that all hospitals were under obligation to have internal audits, however, after surveillance it was found that there was no internal audit in 15 hospitals. As for income and expenditure, a good part of the state's chief auditor said so I wouldn't bother you with those figures right now. What I would like to say is that the most income to hospitals and centres is leaving the state budget while it is important to stress that most of the expenditure refers to employees. And depending on the institution to the institution, it moves somewhere between 42% and 70%, and the second largest cost refers to medically expendable materials that amounted to 2.4 billion kuna. In addition to the hospital's budget, they also generate revenues from the provision of services on the market, so these revenues are made in the amount of 230 million kuna. Clinical study services of medicinal products in the hospital make these revenues based on contracts to conduct a clinical study of medicinal products and concluded with pharmaceutical companies. And it was in this area that large differences were observed in the distribution of funds between the hospital and the interrogation team that ranged from 5 to 40 percent. Furthermore, payments to the team are also different. Authorised fee, payment contract, payment to the company owned by the main interrogator, etc. This is therefore an area that needs to be regulated normably and set criteria and criteria, clear criteria and criteria. The lease of space was not carried out through a public tender with the fact that the tenants did not fulfil their obligations and the hospitals did not take all legal measures to collect the claim. It has also been seen that the sale of apartments did not account for the mandatory share of 65% in the budget. As I have already said, the most significant part of the expenditure refers to the separation of employees. There were 40,000 employees in the system of 10 thousand unhealthy workers. It should be pointed out that irregularities in the application of the coefficients of complexity of business, the calculation of the duty on duty and preparedness are observed. The calculation of the higher coefficients to the corresponding laid down by the public service regulation. From 2005 to 2010, the Joint Committee for the Interpreting of collective agreements gave 368 interpretations, and most were just referring to the account and payouts, which clearly indicates the uncertainty and complexity of the account itself. On-call and preparedness fees were made according to the position, not according to the place of work where the directors were on duty. In most hospitals, the director's assistant had salary allowances between 16% and 20%, although according to the collective contract he was 5%. A higher number of employees were also identified than those prescribed by the systematisation, and a rather significant number of employees were also found with inadequate professional training for the workplace for which they were assigned. So about the importance of restructuring and rehabilitation of clinical centres and hospitals to repeat, and that I will only, once again, two General Hospitals of Karlovac and the General Hospital of Pozega met the conditions and obtained unconditional opinions until the other 28 met these conditions, did not meet the criteria in terms of expenditure, when it comes to income, planning and accounting operations and of course public procurement procedures. And the end of the SDP club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69440	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69441	Well, I'm glad to see you're in your final report right now, and you probably recognize that you should have said that Požega County Hospital and Carlovac County Hospital are really the most successful hospitals. I'm sorry when you said in the beginning that there were political and connotations here and that you were just aiming at what I was saying right before you, where I said it wasn't right for the directors to change in those hospitals that had unconditional opinions and who had done positive and good for years. I know I don't speak politically, but I speak from the heart and soul, because I recognize and know my director in Požega because I come from Požega-Slavon County, and I also know the director in Karlovac who has been replaced exclusively politically by the coming from the Croatian Democratic Community. And that's the problem, that's the policy that you were talking about, that applied to people who successfully run such institutions as hospitals, but it's changing because they're colored by HDZ color and because they're not allowed to let those people who know, who can still manage institutions, but simply delete them and bring in those people who don't know, and we'll only see it next year. But at this point our health care is collapsing where there's simply a question of how and in what way... What? [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[/The Incursion President: Join the Honorable Representative. It won't get into your record anything.]] Well, they won't because these colleagues of yours on the left are shutting me down. That's the problem. But my colleague shut me down, but he didn't want to turn it off, but he probably expected him to prepare for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69442	Okay. Thank you very much. Replica response, the respected representative of Hrvoja Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69443	My dear colleague, I can't agree with you in this part of you that you're talking about, where you're already in advance condemning people who have come to a position that they've come to be incompetent, that they won't do their job well. I really can't agree with you there. Let's give them time and we'll see. But here you are again trying to politicalize your debate, blaming the SDP. It's now, it would actually be the same as now if I told you your minister was responsible for all this actually chaos and disorder in the hospital system, in health care, that he said that I don't know there's no debt. In the end, more than five billion kunas appeared. So let's not do it that way. I could say all that, but I won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69444	Thank you, too. It is precisely the Croatian Democratic Community club and the respected representative Darko Milinovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69445	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the state's chief auditor with his associates. Of course, I must commend this report. It's really concise. From it we can read or read many things not only from 2011 about what this document was talking about but we can read some of the things that happen this year or last year, as the representative Lucic said. This report really comes at a time I will say this very vulnerabilities time for a health, health care system. Today is the health system we warned about two and a little more than two years ago, warning that this government's destructive policies towards Croatian health care will culminate with today's collapse of the health system. We have warned countless times that reducing the contribution from 15% to 13% as a separate measure for the Croatian health system will lead to nothing but collapse and accumulation of new obligations. It is also a fact that the mayors of all counties, not HDZs, are looking for a meeting with Minister Rajko Ostojic for reasons they wish to participate actively in trying to prevent a complete collapse of the health system. So when you spoke to Mr. Honorable Representative Nekic about the current resolution managers, it is best to read the data. At the same time, during the recovery, so just over six, seven months as the head of the health care facility, the debt managers of the state hospital were raised by a billion and a half kuna, and the debt of general hospitals by a billion and 200 million kuna. Now look. In 8 months, debt in the Croatian health system has increased by 2.7 billion kuna. Now that I'm saying that this report can also talk about something in that report, it says now that I'm not asking for an increase in the debt of the hospital in 2013, so in 2011. So throughout the year, that debt has been increased by somewhere if I'm not mistaken for 5.4% or somewhere around 400 million kunas throughout the year. We knew that and we said that if we were to win the election that we had to go to a new health system reform in order to in some way prevent the accumulation of new debts, and let us remember the announcement by Health Minister Rajko Ostojic that he would halve the waiting lists. He confessed the other day that the waiting lists were increased three to four times. So it's not 20 to 30 percent, it's 300 to 400 percent after his own confession. So the debt has been increased, actually the waiting lists have increased by 300 to 400 percent. Unfortunately, in Croatian health care, and most of all, Croatian hospitals today have nearly 600,000 people waiting for certain tests, i.e. diagnostic tests. And every day 2,000 new people are on waiting lists. From this report in 2011, we see that expenditures are county, in fact, all the hospitals I've read, 9 billion and 832 million kuna. What does that tell us? Today's budget, last year's budget of the Croatian hospital system, or provided funds in the budget for the functioning of the hospital health system, is around 7 billion, slightly less than 7 billion, 6 billion, and 900 million kuna. Now that you look at this 2012 report, the total expenditure of the hospital health system is 9 billion and 800, which means that at the start of the state budget, as we warned, nearly 2 billion kuna are missing. The Croatian health system came into position before 2005, 2004, when it generated debts of more than 200 million kuna at monthly level. When we talk about expenditures of the highest cost reduction, it is in addition to your debate, the biggest expenditure reduction has been made by the General Hospital in Virovitica, where the director who successfully led the health care facility was also removed as well. So he reduced the expenditure by 23.5% and didn't deserve to be a recovery manager because apparently the only measure or the only way you can be it is to be like a political one, not like Mr. Lucic. But it's the same thing with the Pacrat Hospital that we don't forget it, because the Pacrat Hospital, according to this report, with the Sister of Mercy hospital, has a surplus income over expenditures. Which means he's doing a positive job, but the same fate was experienced by the Pakra Hospital, of course. It seems to me here, here and I'll read, so I don't know if, perhaps, the main state auditor can answer me, so during 2012, the Croatian Health Insurance Office has subdued the suppliers of medicines, blood and blood products and consumer medical supplies to hospitals worth 432 million kuna. I've been talking about it and it's an illegal recovery of the health system. Because if you're going to go to rehab, you must have the funds for that in the state budget. They made the recovery of the hospital’s health system in a way that they took from the position on drugs and thus rescheduled hospital facilities about 500 million, in fact somewhere around 900 million kuna. And we have, of course, warned that it is not only nontransparent but also illegal recovery. There's one fact, and said by the chief state auditor, I'd end up being satisfied with this report because no hospital, and you said you covered all the hospitals, it says here only 30 hospitals, you said that you... In fact, if it hadn't been established, or if no hospital had received a negative opinion. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think that's a good thing, because just because an opinion is conditionally there are certain difficulties, certain gaps that can be corrected over the next year. I was the Director of General Hospital in Gospić, so I see here that, and I think it is also to be commended, that the public procurement process was carried out in almost 90% of the cases in the supply of goods and services. Now, place yourself in the position of the head of one of the hospitals, whether it's a state hospital or a county hospital. Call a drug tender because the biggest problem is the public tender for the purchase of medicines. Now place yourself in that position, call a procurement tender, bid you for those or these reasons falls. What can you do then? Of course, the only thing you can't do is leave the hospital or then the patients with no medication and then go in such cases and these cases or to the extension of the contract which is likely to be recorded by the State Audit, so many hospitals have received a conditional opinion or go on an additional matter, i.e. a direct contract. It is good that you mentioned it and it is good to say it for political reasons, although you did not mention it for political reasons but for real reasons, remember when we lost the HDZ power when we lost the elections, then it was said that Croatian hospitals served to host party personnel. Today, 4000 doctors and 15000 nurses and technicians are missing in Croatia. And that's why the situation in Croatian healthcare is about to collapse. Now of the thousands we hired in 2011 as you spoke of political likeness we hired beware of only 45 people of unhealthy professions, and 300 as we have said here 395 health professions. We should've hired more. This means that we've hired more than 6 doctors or nurses or medical technicians every year and we've hired 0.7 from an unhealthy profession. I agree that we have to take care, and it says very clearly here that a good part of them is employed without the consent of the Minister of Health and Social Care then to me, but I think it's a minor problem. I can now say from this position that I would like to have hired 1,000 doctors and 2,000 nurses in 2011 to make the Croatian healthcare system work better, so that there are fewer overtime hours and let's say today's medical administration or those who run today's Croatian healthcare system would have fewer problems. We've seen here that on non-material expenditures, it's paid by the total income of hospitals from which the hospital went from 47-70%. So there are general criteria that one hospital gets the total annual limit that and that it spends between 60% and 70% on hospitals and on salaries. We kept that water until 2011. I'm going to tell you the information and I'm really interested in what Agent Schuker said was interested in the 2013 review report on the business of political parties, and we will also be careful to monitor and review hospital health institutions in 2012, 2013 what kind of an audit will it be because now look at one thing. Virovitica, the hospital in Virovitica has a monthly budget of 7.4 million kuna and you know how much it has to pay 7.8 million kuna. So 400 thousand kuna received less for total business than you should. So they don't even have a basic salary. And that's why we've been warning a cut in the 2% contribution, health care has been abolished 2, not to say 2.5 billion kuna stolen. This must be felt somewhere and unfortunately it feels on waiting lists and, as I said in eight months, the sanitizers have made a new debt, 2.7 billion kuna and in two and more, two years and two months, the total debt, the new debt in the health system is at the level, the new debt has about 5 billion kuna, and therefore we will be able to look at, wait and see what happens to the Croatian health system and expect audits of the report for 2012 and 2013. The united public procurement here has a very clear one with which Minister Rajko Ostojic boasts greatly. He said in February 2011 the Ministry of Health and Social Care made a decision on the conduct of the procedures of united public procurement. So these actions by Health Minister Rajko Ostojic are nothing more than the continuation of the reform of the health system that we have launched but unfortunately it has been stopped in 90% of the cases and therefore we have the situation in the Croatian health system as we do today. Prime Minister Milanovic said in his last current watch he would invite me as former minister to give some vision of saving Croatia's health system. We have a vision in HDZ, we know what kind of vision. I, with expectation, expect the invitation of Prime Minister Milanovic to help him or Rajko Ostojić help with my advice and advice from the Croatian Democratic Community how to save the Croatian health system, not only by detaching HZZO from the Treasury, because if it is the only thing that will continue to collapse. A dozen measures are needed to save the Croatian health system. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69446	Thank you. All right, we got a lot of replicas. Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić first.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69447	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague Milinović, when you told him that the debt was increasing, it's actually clear to all of us, and we're all very difficult because we're aware of the situation in which Croatian health is located. But today we are talking about the revision of hospitals and I believe you will also agree with me that this uncontrollable increase in hospital and health care costs is, above all, the result of inadequate management. I'm not talking right now. I'm talking about hospitals or directors of these hospitals that are so visible from these audit reports. I'll just say this for the Dubrovnik Hospital. From the irregularities of the account of additions to the salaries of individual employment use of overtime, employment in an improper manner, then, let's say, an example of the loan contract that was a million-and-a-half kuna was without the County's prescribed consent as founder, and also without the public procurement procedure. I'm talking about uncontrollable growth precisely because of the irresponsibility of those who ran hospitals. When you look only without the regulations, the prescribed procurement procedures were ordered goods, works and services 30 million kuna with VAT and it was without public procurement procedures. That we do not speak further about employment as well without the agreement of the minister is employed but also without calling a public tender. The Dubrovnik hospital didn't even have an internal audit. Here I think that now the Sanitary Council, or the Manager, will establish an internal audit, although under the law over 50 employees and expenditure over 30 million kuna, is an obligation. So what I'm saying is that this depends on the non-responsibility of the directors who were and I'm asking for something to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69448	Answer, Darko Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69449	I agree with you that something must be done. I'll tell you what Minister of Health Rajko Ostojic did. When he came to power, he reduced the hospital's budgets 20%. There's no such thing. When I became a minister, I looked at the hospital's limits with great confidence by the Minister of Finance at the time, barely, but we did it, by 20% and I said, from now on, if you create new debts, I will relieve you, regardless of whether it's the director of HDZ or the SDP or the HNS. I didn't replace anyone because they held water and didn't create a new debt. Now, Minister Rajko Ostojic reduced the hospital's budgets immediately by 20%. There's no way the hospitals are doing positive work, and then he took advantage of that moment and said, "You're incompetent, you're incompetent, you're almost in a week, all almost directors in a week from the HDZ ranks have been replaced." He also replaced the SDP directors, but these same directors became rescheduled managers. Now, if we're going to take the same criterion, all the renaissance managers, from first to last in the last eight months, have made 2.7 billion kunas of a new debt. If the minister's correct, then next week he should have replaced all the restitution managers, but I don't think that's the answer. I think that the renaissance managers, at least most of them know the functioning of the health system and are not responsible for this situation in the Croatian health system. Well, if I were the prime minister, I wouldn't have replaced the sanitizers, I'd have left them, I'd be the health minister now, I'd have left all the sanitizers, provided them with the means to operate the hospitals, but I'd have replaced the one who led to it, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69450	A new replica, Hrvoje Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69451	Dear fellow Milinović. Yes, the abolished health care, but left to the economy. And we look forward to the next review report, too, but right now, so you're all giving concrete figures on the money flow. Yeah, now there's nothing to hide, everything's transparent and the money flow is clearly being followed. But you really, since we're talking about the 2011 report here, 80% of your debate has been devoted to the current minister. I repeat here we're discussing 2011 and I have to remember, I mean, I'm sorry to have to mention it all the time and all, but we're going to mention it as many times as it takes. You are that year in front of the cameras right now, I am now, you will correct me if I'm wrong 'that was the end of 2011, after the elections or the beginning of 2012, you said, we leave clean papers. Shortly after that, 5.2 billion dollars in debt turned out to be. Over 3 billion have been invested in the recovery, so we've tried and we're trying to solve health problems and now I can also ask you, so how much do you really think, let's just say, jobs from that 3 billion kuna could open? It's not funny, I mean, you guys are obviously all funny, you've been smiling all day, it doesn't really matter what you left behind, so here you are actually enjoying all the problems we've encountered.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69452	It's Darko Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69453	You also said in your discussion on behalf of the club that I said I was leaving the Croatian health system without debts. Oh, my God, that doesn't even occur to anyone. I said so, and that was confirmed by the State Audit that I had arrived, when I became minister, that I had made a debt, so that we understood what was due and what were total liabilities. If there was a debt of 2.1 billion kuna, the hospital was reduced to a billion and I rounded up to 600 million kuna, and here in the State Audit report you can see that the long-term hospital was a billion and 500, it seems to me, 98 thousand kuna. The Croatian Health Insurance Office also had a debt of about 600 million kuna somewhere. So total, in fact, the debt of the Croatian Health System was 2.1 billion kuna and we reduced it from 4.1 to 2.1 billion kuna and that document was also sent by Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, who signed exactly what I was saying when it was this famous law on the recovery of hospital institutions in the Republic of Croatia. I don't enjoy what you said, I don't know if I've heard it well in these problems, if I wanted to enjoy myself politically, so I'd say, well, let's have a problem, but you don't have a problem, have our patients problems. 2,000 people each day are, like, 2,000 new people on waiting lists. 600 thousand people today are waiting for a variety of tests, we saw what's inadmissible, yesterday we read in the papers that patients or those who come to visit patients must wear towels and toilet papers. It's inadmissible and it's, once again, the result of a lack of vision and responsibility today, I'm going to say so, the health administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69454	A new replica, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69455	My colleague Milinovic, I am very glad that in your report you also touched the hospitals in Pakrac and you said that the hospital in Pakrac was also doing a positive job. But as we see these last days, the hospital has been attached and connected to the hospital in Požega that we in Požega-Slavon County are not happy because we believe that the hospital in Pakrac must indeed have its status as it has for the past 100 years, as it exists. But what is particularly worrying is that all of us are saddened, especially when the prime minister of the Croatian government said that the only hospitals in Vukovar and Knin will be hospitals with special piety. I ask the question since I come from Požega-Slavon County, so how is it possible that the town of Pakrac who has a hospital for over 100 years where the war started in Croatia, not in Vukovar or Knin, but in Pakrac can say so, while not saying that the hospital in Pakrac, which we in Požega-Slavon County think we should be with a special pie because these citizens of Pakrac deserve it? In that hospital, she defended herself and there was a line of distinction between those who attacked the town of Pakrac and today we are not taking care of the hospital, but we are bringing it together with the hospital in Požega and we are taking away the status that she had, especially to say one prime minister of the Croatian government. He probably doesn't know that in Pakrac there started a war in Croatia and that there was a bleeding and a lot of people died to defend their city.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69456	A new replica of Tomislav Jagar. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69457	Look at me, that's not surprising. Someone was learning English in America while we were carrying guns. So we have a different feeling for Pacrac, me towards Gospić who was also a hospital on the first line of defense. The pie should also be earned by Dubrovnik Hospital, Zadar Hospital and a series of hospitals, but I don't know why he chose the Prime Minister only Knin and Vukovar. It's obviously a barbaric preparation for the abolition of some hospitals like the Pakrac hospital. I've said it a few times. If we are to take seriously the reform of the hospital health system, then we must do so here in Zagreb. In Zagreb, 5 billion kunas are spent more than half of all hospitals in Croatia. If you save 10% there, that's 500 million kuna. With 500 million kunas you can, I've calculated it, the Pacrac Hospital financed in 15 years. The minister does not have the courage to belong to one of the Zagreb lobbies who are demanding not to touch the Zagreb health system. You remember when I brought hospitals together but not in Pakrac, not in Knin, but here where it's the hardest, when I said not every hill can have its director and save 385 million kuna just on a united public procurement. That's why I could increase the budget for Pakrac and Dubrovnik and Zadar and if you want Gospić and Vukovar and such hospitals. It should have courage and not be one of the lobbies that only wants to save Zagreb. We protect Croatia if Pakrac is Croatian not to say more than Zagreb... but as is Pakrac Croatian as it is Zagreb. So here you need to deal with the struggle of lobbys that guard and thus disabling the Croatian health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69458	Let's hear the replica of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69459	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Milinovic is not well drawn from the audit findings either by some time series of individual facts and then by means of them. Why isn't that good? So you mentioned a hospital in Virovitica, ten years ago for political reasons, the hospital was in debt with 55 million kuna, although it could be found a model that would be much more acceptable for the county at the end of the day and for the hospital. On the other hand, at the hospital in Virovitica, you have another 5.5 employees. There's nurses and auxiliary staff. What I'm saying is that reforms should have started long ago and this system would have been more sustainable. This way now you say that whether it's a former hospital administration. You're here to mention that it's only for political reasons. Here, you did not say that the 2011 public procurement report concluded contracts for the purchase of goods, works and services worth 12 million 792 thousand kuna. But what the eyes are is the value of the purchase of goods, works and services whose estimated value is up to 70,000 kuna, so all those works that can be cut apart are 20 million 415 thousand and 177 kuna. No prescribed procurement procedures have been carried out for the purchase of medicinal products worth 9 million 855 thousand kuna. So it's serious stuff and it has to be responded to. And I would disagree with you that only the reason is the political shift of the principal in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69460	Answer Darko Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69461	I've already said when it comes to Virovitsk Hospital or the Sanitary Manager will fight to run that health care facility as it is and how the residents of the city and the county need it. But if you're going to limit the hospital, I'm going to repeat 7.4 million kunas, and it takes 7.8 million kunas to pay, so what are we talking about? You know how I, and you probably know, helped not only the Virovitica Hospital when you mention a 55 million-dollar loan to the Rijeka Hospital and the Dubrovnik Hospital, we've increased our decentralised resources to disburse the county so we can pay off the credit liabilities from our own incomes. I said we're all waiting with an interest report in 2012 let's say a State Audit report on the ministries. I will tell you one piece of information in 2012 against the provisions on public procurement was purchased equipment worth 2.7 million kuna. But you said rightly so we wouldn't politicize it. But really, if there's anywhere to politicize, it doesn't need to be in the health system. Some of the MPs were here when I presented a health system reform, I told the opposition leader, today Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, was sitting there. I said I'm prepared as one who represents a reform of the health system, here's Romana to confirm I was also in Rijeka, representing a reform of the health system. I said I was ready to come and in the apiary nest what in the political sense of that word, on Ibler's Square and present the reform and try to get a consensus and good suggestions to install into that reform. I've been waiting, I haven't been a dirty pumpkin, I'm a minister, you come to me. I said I'll come to Ibler Square, without any problems and talking about reforming the health system. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Mrs. Jerkovic will confirm that I did it in Rijeka in front of 400 or 500 people. That's the way we have to lead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69462	Ivanka Roksandić, new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Milinovic, you said and I agree with you that there is no need to politicise. Unfortunately, politics has entered hospitals and we cannot resist it. We've seen an example of the shift of the CEO of the carlovian, the pacracian, the posek. But I will tell you another situation. Here's an example of Sisak Hospital. In 2005, when the principal took over the hospital, he was positive, i.e. plus in his budget for three and a half million kuna. Now he ended up somewhere in front of this 30 million-dollar-a-minus recovery. And imagine he's still a recovery manager. That's what you mentioned. And now you're saying that it's not, that it's not about the political setting up of recovery managers. Well, it's because he's a very important official under the protection of the mayor in Sisak-Moslavina County, and imagine what some of his important failures are in this eight-year term and a constant revision of that. Employment, public procurement, a criminal application in which, even for the sake of favoring his son's company, he obtained some funds, he obtained information equipment, some programs without obtaining direct contracts. It's all criminal charges, it's all in the process. So we can't say it's not a political shift. Yes, because if a hospital is doing well, if you accept it in a positive and in 8 years you succeed with 3 and a half million kunas to bring a hospital for more than 30 million kunas and we are waiting for this report as you say for 2012 and especially for 2013 where he is a recovery manager to see how many millions of kunas now. Because nothing really moved in the Sisak hospital. So, it's still about hospital politics, although I agree with you that politics must not be in the hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69464	Answer, Darko Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69465	Well, the minister still has time to show they're not political personnel. All the recovery directors in eight months doubled their debt. If these aren't political personnel, they'd have to be replaced by resolution managers. But it's me, I'm saying against it again. It's not their fault that you put them in such a situation with your own politics. I wouldn't talk much about your mayor. You remember when I, as Minister of Health and Social Care, then invited both you and the opposition parliamentary representatives and in the state budget and in the Ministry of Health we provided funds for the reconstruction and supply of equipment at Sisak hospital. Now, if we were to speak this way, I saw that that was when President Mesic was invited who probably brought a lot of funds to Sisak hospital, and we who provided it here as a minister and you saw in TV footage of the new departments opening up. So, the minister has a chance to show that he is not politically humanised, he must take the same criteria as 8 months ago and change, he once again says. I don't think they're incompetent, no matter what some of them are from SDP and HNS, I don't care, but I don't think they're incompetent. Maybe 50 of them are 10 really incompetent and 40 is certainly capable but you can't run a hospital if you have a total budget less than you need just to pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69466	Replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69467	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear fellow Milinovic, I remember here when you represented the health reform of the storm and storm here in the Parliament by the opposition. And I think today we'd be happy and we'd be happy and we'd be patients, but also doctors if you were still a minister and you were still spending your imagination and you were able to carry out that reform. Because here's what I'm going to tell you that humiliated the doctors. And I think anyone who has these professions must be humiliated and amazed. At a clinical hospital in Zagreb in the neurosurgery department. The lady who cleans up the department takes 40 kuna an hour. One young neurosurgeon working overtime, so the surgery can't leave. These are specific operations getting 37 kuna compensation for overtime. Of course, it's called the quitters by the prime minister, it humiliates them. I'm surprised that people who are in power didn't stand up for the defense at least those who are fellow doctors and then no wonder. And what would you do? It is no wonder that 30 young, completed neurosurgeon specialists from that same clinical hospital are applied to go to Norway and the answer is the prime minister. Unfortunately, I am sorry and the minister who has to answer will come to us with a profession from Bulgaria and Romania, it is not a problem, we are an EU member. My dear fellow, what you are now waving at your head and saying is embarrassing to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69468	Answer Darko Milinović. Don't throw it away. Don't throw it away, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69469	So, yes, I did. I think it's clear to me why Minister Ostojić is not a reform? Because there's nothing to present. We all witnessed when we started reforming the health system I started to present it here in Zagreb in front of 1200 people at the Hypo Centre. There were MPs and all those who wanted to come. In front of 1200 people, and in total in front of 10,000 people in the halls, I held lectures or presentations on the reform of the health system. Now, when the doctor's relationship is like this and the minister of finance and the prime minister calls him to the doctors, watch this, steal the state budget, it's too scary. That's why we have today, the minister boasts and reduces the waiting list for the eyeball. Today, 590 days are waiting for the eye scan. If you have problems and doubts about colon cancer you should wait 324 days, heart ultrasound 372 days, hip 580 days, ultrasound of the breast, watch out for this breast ultrasound today is waiting in Croatia for 426 days. And that's what this nadal collective contract did. I'll tell you why doctors, 300 doctors leave. It will not come to you from Serbia or Bosnia under such conditions. By 3 o'clock, a surgeon performs a heart transplant and has 10% working conditions. After 3 hours he's not 10%, after 3 hours he's not a doctor anymore. It's a signed collective in the health system today. And that's the cause and extension of the waiting list, the less the debts matter. I understand, the situation is really difficult, the recession is and I understand the build-up of debts, but then don't at least insult those who are willing to work day and night.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69470	Time. A new replica, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69471	Thank you very much. You have repeated the terms hospital system and health system several times. So I would just like to point out that the system by definition represents an orderly whole of the individual parts that is organized and maintained through the organisational structure. So the organisational structure itself maintains that orderly whole. And I don't think we can talk about either the hospital system or the health system because it's not being maintained through the organisational structure. It doesn't match the definition of the current state. And the situation in the last two years here is just a two-year permanent process of restructuring and recovery, and the situation is worse. You also mentioned 4,000 missing doctors. And then, in such a situation, the lack of a doctor who is also called a shut - down decree has been ordered that anyone who has reached 65 years of age leave the health area and the hospital area. Isn't that harmful? You were also talking about the reduction of contributions and that nothing brought good. It didn't do any good, but it brought evil. The deficit of the state budget has been increased, we have entered the excessive deficit procedure, our credit rating has been reduced because of this, and we have questioned the sustainability of the Republic of Croatia's budget. And when, I said recently, when he shoots the budget he shoots the state. And it's unequivocal and it's clear to everyone that the state of health and hospitals is bad. I just don't think it's appropriate to describe it by saying that it's a condition in which he doesn't know what he's doing on the right, because that illustration means nothing but a Bible message and a recommendation of desirable behavior, not unwanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69472	Answer, Darko Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69473	I agree with you, but somehow when we talk about the system then somehow it seems to me that love for this system and for the Croatian homeland springs from me, so I can't say that it's falling apart but every time I say it, and I think we share the same values, so whenever I say the system, I say a system that's almost collapsing. Reduction, I said, reduction of contributions by 2% is one single measure in the Croatian health system that cannot bring and lead to anything good. In fact, if we had an increase in employees, and we see that we have 80 to 90 thousand new unemployed, then we could still sort of understand that reduction from 15 to 13%. Now they're dealing with the latest, so remember, now it's and the story of the separation of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute from the Treasury, remember when we lost the election before that we passed the law to isolate HZZO from the Treasury on 1.01.2013. We wanted to give the government a year to consolidate, to resuscitate the health system and then isolate HZO from the Treasury. How are you going to single out HZO from the Treasury today with a new 700 million kuna debt? So, you'd need a new recovery. You cannot form a new facility but with a debt of 700, 800 million kuna. So the mere separation of HZZO from the Treasury won't do any good. Perhaps combined, it may sound unpopular at the moment but we must consider whether this government must consider redefining the contribution at least until Croatia comes out of the crisis. But there are a number of other measures that can still be taken today as the salvation of the Croatian health system, one 10-point measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69474	A new replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69475	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Milinović reminds me that this situation in Croatian health reminds me that you have a leg of 46 and you bought a shoe of 45 and persistently wonder why you have blisters and why you have sore fingers. And then someone comes in and tells you no, you're 45 too big and it's ideal for 44. And now you're walking, you've got bloody blisters, you've got broken fingers, but it just doesn't hurt you anymore, it hurts Croatian citizens. That's the situation in Croatian health care. So, we've had Croatian health care that's been strained so someone came and said what 15%, 13% is enough and it's going to go and now someone's insisting on convincing you that the same thing can be done with nearly 3 billion kunas less. And nothing has changed in the hospital system. Yes, as far as Croatian citizens are concerned, and we can discuss such reports as much as we want and when we discuss at the end of 2014, unfortunately Croatian healthcare will have 3.5 billion unpaid bills. So we're not talking about shoes 44 anymore, we're talking about shoes 43. It won't hurt anymore, it'll be amputated.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69476	Replication response, Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69477	When you mention shoes, Reverend Schucker, then I thought of a joke, you know when the guy bought, he's wearing a size 43, and he bought shoes 41, two numbers less, they also printed it, so they asked him, so good thing you bought those shoes two less, you're normal, you're harassing yourself, if he says you don't know how dense it is when you take them off, what a relaxation it is. So that's how this government behaves, it's eager to lose the election, to relax it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69478	Last line, my colleague Gjurkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69479	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'd like to rephrase killing because you've been doing a good job of discussing health care recovery and offering your options for reform and here we're essentially discussing the revision of the hospital system for the year 2011 that remained behind you as minister. I must admit that after reading this revision I have to ask why most hospitals did not get an unfavourable or abstention in view of what was found, given that in most cases, there have been errors in each part of the financial business, irregularities in the application of coefficients, complexity of jobs, different treatment in cumulative employment, etc. In the purchase of about a billion and 328 million kunas of purchased goods, works and services without prescribed public procurement procedures, and we are now discussing the system. Yes, it's an extremely important health care system. But what we're discussing today is a condition that we find in hospitals, which, apart from recovery, requires a completely different management because what we found wasn't management.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69480	Answer Darko Milinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69481	I said so, and this report, too, we have mentioned a resolution, so it's inevitable when we talk about the 2011 revision that it doesn't apply in part to both the tenth and the future years. But what is it, look. Look at 2008 at the end of 2008, a billion kuna medical system has been rehabilitated. I'm talking about the system of values that this minister cherishes and that we have cherished. It didn't occur to me that even more to condition the recovery we call the Pula Hospital so that the conditions that I can appoint the director, no. We've been rehabilitated with a billion kunas of all the hospitals but it didn't occur to us that way to carry out political cleanups and even though there were before. But I'm not that. I was told not to have Dubrovnik there. Here's an open word, my HDZs said don't give Dubrovnik a budget so much and so much bigger, cut it down, he was teasing us. I'm saying, people, that's out of the question. Then get me out of the Minister of Health 'cause that's not how I work. I have a feeling this health minister isn't fighting for the system. Shuki's gone now so he and I were at the edge of a physical conflict because I was fighting for the system. I fought for my sisters. I fought for doctors, and then we calmed down a little bit, whether the temperaments were one and the other, so we found a common solution. I remember in 2008, 12 months it was my best present for Christmas, says Shuki Dado, I have a billion kunas to resuscitate the health system, but I struggled, I struggled a little bit, Shuki might have used it somewhere else, and that's the problem. This minister doesn't fight for the health system, he doesn't fight for doctors, for nurses, for technicians, for lab workers, for unhealthy employees. I think that's the problem. I think that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69482	On behalf of the HNS Club Nada Turina-Đuric, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69483	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of the audit. So here in these already late hours it became fun and last lines and the ex-minister's answers amuse us already here half an hour so I might start at the end. Health care is an extremely important segment of the overall functioning of the community, and I think we all agree on that. But what you just said, you told the naked truth at this very end. So, you're like a minister and this report actually refers to when you were a minister it worked the way you fought and it's quite fine, I was working partly in that system when you were a minister and we even worked very well with the ministry. You fought, you fought for the amount of money, the system which is de facto and today similar to or the same as it was at the time, and when you were short of money, then you met with the Minister of Finance and with the Prime Minister before the budget, prayed, godfather, that, and then Mr. Schuker fell hair probably off his head, but you said we wanted to keep the social peace, we want that system to work and if it costs how much and you did. Now look, the policy of this government is because we've been talking about it lately. The policy of this government is slightly different, i.e. I would say that you are not offended by a bit more responsible because the health system is not the only system in the Republic of Croatia. It has to work, but it has to be sustainable and for the budget that we have, and it's always the same problem in health, and Mr. Milinovic, I don't know, I've had some impression that you're satisfied with the results of this audit. I'm not very happy. This situation is similar in Croatia in this system but, I don't know, 15 years after the war, let's say that we don't count the war as a time in which these data could be relevant. This system is constantly and continuously doing the same loss. Now it's just a question of whether you have Schooker or you have Linic, whether we'll be in charge or not, we'll still be in debt. We've come to some limit, I've said one sentence today that Mr. Leco warned me about, that it's become a questionable sustainability of the whole system, not to say state, so he warned me, it's not, but it's really, we're in this situation, I'm not going to say you brought us into this situation. But we got ourselves into this situation. Then came Minister Primorac, who also implemented his programmes in this way, had the same argument with Mr. Shuker, at the same time with Sanader, and then he succeeded, and then it was seen that this could not be done, and then the second year the transports, the free textbooks, etc. You've been successful, you've been very persistent, I remember all your presentations. I'm sorry that you didn't make it through to the end of that reform, and you probably knew in the beginning that you wouldn't make it because at least that would be better than none. And we have in our system, so now it's not a question of who is more or less in debt, we have structural problems in health care, and it's seen through all, not just these reports, but all the other reports we have on the health system. And no one in this health system has, as far as I know, wanted to face a real lack of money, a standard that we cannot maintain through the budget and through the health insurance system and say that some things in this country need to be changed in that health care. And heresy is here, whenever you talk about potential closure, reducing the volume of jobs in certain hospitals, in certain areas, this in the revision is very clear, because the revision is one specific clean start that you can even start from something, to see what indicators through which you could possibly do some real essential, structural reforms and changes. Nothing will be saved, not on this watch, not on alert, nothing. There's something going on, but it's all over the table... We have a system we can't handle. A large number of hospitals, thousands of times talked about it, some ministers in the back 15 years were speaking openly, you were talking about birth homes. That's what someone has to do. And I'm going to tell you that I think there's a solution and now that there's no offense to any minister who's been a minister, and most of all they've been doctors, I don't think any of them have been a doctor, I think that for the Minister of Health, or health, we should bring an economist. Not to mention that at the head of all these hospitals, as managers, we need to bring economists. I have this experience in coastal-goran county, you can check it out. Where systems are run by economists, you have at least less losses, and in some places you don't have them at all. Of course, these systems have, of course, all these systems have healthcare assistants and, of course, the institution can't function without a quality profession that naturally participates in making key decisions. And until we decide that, I've just said something that most doctors probably won't take well, but until we start talking about math all over this story, we'll always have the same problem. There's some of your colleagues, and here we are on the first step here. First we all say we have a consensus, we should make changes, we should do reforms, and then a colleague comes along and says, you know, the hospital in Pakrac is a special pite. Well, I agree with that, but then we turn it into a monument. This whole story is also connected to something else that the health system should be, which is a system of excellence. If you don't have an excellent health system or if at least you don't want it all over the network, then maybe you don't even have it because it's de facto potential, I won't say murderers, but it's a potential major danger if you don't have excellence. We in Croatia today, unfortunately, for the lack of money, but also for the whole management system we may have one, two, maybe three centres of excellence in health care, esteeming all doctors working everywhere in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, in all hospitals. And there's a doctor here today because of course they're interested in this topic, so let them say. A serious threat to some disease and advice to you, let's say the former ministers and where to go to examine myself. Don't ask Nado, somewhere out there, not to mention a single place, not a single hospital, but in Zagreb, they're your best. It's all going to Zagreb. Not only from Gospić, not only from Najsic, not only from Vukovar, but also from Rijeka, Split. What did we do? So it turns out that we have enough to have two, three or four strong health centres in all of Croatia, and let's be careful about billions, if we put all of these billions in those three, four centres and we'll probably have excellent health centers that will cost us even less. But that's where someone has to start talking about it. You were on some trail of your own time when you proposed this reform, but what you said politically was not a consensus or I wouldn't even, I wouldn't even dare say that it was political, it was more professionally blocked, or rather, most of all from the health profession because everyone wanted to keep their... intact, much more in that profession than it was from politics itself, and of course, the profession instrumentsized policy on the ground which had destroyed some. Some suggestions, not some, a good part of these proposals was exaggerated and a good one here I openly admit. It didn't work. But we're going to do this kind of audit like this, let's not kid ourselves, if we don't face it and do something, and I hope the minister is doing it now, it seems we have an announcement that some of the documents of the strategy that we should be giving answers to some of these questions that I am. If they don't give answers essentially to this whole thing, I think we're going to get plus minus is always whether it's three, four, five billion that depends most on the Minister of Finance. Nine. So I wouldn't go any further. I wrote a very long discussion because I worked in that system so I know what's going on. This is not in any case, this review finding is not proud of anyone, not the former or current minister, nor do we at that level have to fight or discuss each other. I think we need to be aware that this problem is about time to start solving. On that trail, here's a call like you used to give us an invitation, to talk constructively in that sense, and not to be what usually happens when you go into structural reforms in any segment, and this is one of the most sensitive that we have at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69484	Thank you very much. Now let's go to the replicas that have exactly 9. ... No, on your side. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Darko Milinović first.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69485	Look, you may be the best example that I haven't had animosity with anyone, possibly from a professional level, but with political certainty, no. You may be the best example of it. You're wrong that I was capable of getting the funds. I mean, now it's unpopular to mention it, but what I can do, when Ivo Sanader proposed to me as minister, I didn't say who some, said Ivo, I can't say no. I said I have two conditions, first of all, to pay for this three-year system really as much as it costs, and second condition that I'm a real health minister and that there's no shadow minister there were such situations when someone coughs then the minister gets cold. So I had two conditions to pay the three system as much as it costs and I guarantee you I'll get into that battle of reform and I'm the health minister above me there's no one there. Those were two of my terms. And I said I'm honored because that's what I want and I want to be. The budget of the Ministry of Health was 24 billion kuna when I became a minister. When I left I rebalanced it and you can't do it and you know it without reform, I went 21 billion and 700, so 2 billion and 300 million kuna I rebalanced in 3 years. But what is the reason for success? Exactly the reform that could have been stronger and stronger and better, I agree with that, but also an indication that in the 9th, 10th and 11th, there was no recovery of the health system because it worked. Now, in two years, we have three health system recoverys, which means it's not working. I'll remember you, we've all fought here, someone has to pay for the health care we want. I've raised 100 to 300% in addition for 100% but those better paying powers and introduced participation in primary health care. You remember how much resistance it was and on this left hand side of the citizens' pocket, hitting. But if we want to have the kind of health care we think we should, then someone has to pay for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69486	A response to the replica of Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69487	Look, Mr. Milinović, no one here has a desire to take some credit for trying to get our healthcare system into some better waters in your time than they were before you, and what you might not know is you say today that they were better then. But the fact is it's about money and only money. Our hospitals, not only hospitals, you want health homes, you want special hospitals having management problems. We didn't put the whole system together in a way that we could in some way, as you said, have some limit, someone has to assess whether a hospital can or can't work with certain money or some health system with certain money. It's your time, I've been to Plitvices, and I remember that, there was everything. There were many who rebelled. Why did they fall into a little bit of unkindness or where you told them, it wasn't too much of an explanation as to why some of the restrictions fell, why some of them increased. Okay, you guys kept it together. But then when you lacked the fact that the whole system was there and that Mr. Shucker was very well-intentioned, here's our neighbor, so we know how well-intentioned he was, and he was firing money. And look, this policy has come into a situation that needs to change. We can't fire the money until when. It's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69488	Replica Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69489	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Hope, here's what you've all mentioned, and before, the former minister talked about money, it was easy to let it go, and now we have to go back. We're in a very invisible situation. However, social peace was also spent, but not all in the amount of money. In fact, these reports show audits that it wasn't a structure, it wasn't a system structure. And I'm free to say that it's been a verse, political, irresponsible thing. That's what I'm talking about for the directors of the individual who ran the county hospitals and led to these things we read, we read from the audit reports. And when we started resuscitating, there were some headlines in the media: "The county loses hospitals, and the minister replaces the director." What is this message on all these activities that have been going on? So I repeat one more time. One irresponsibility can also be seen in the billing of salaries which has been arranged with several laws and on non-transparent procurement and on the irresponsible supply of medicines. Therefore, it is easy to have money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69490	New replica Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69491	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Hope, we've been talking about the financial situation. We need to know, so when something is empty and the home budget is hard to fix. So the creation of debts when we remember that in some hospitals the debts were caused by a large part of the employees and by party employees, when we know that in some hospitals they were employees of four, five employees who were in charge of cleaning snow and that snow is also two, three days, maybe five. And we're wondering if we've had cases, or if there's already been a lot of hospitals that we've had doctors standing by. So alert, running after three hours to morning, 14 days alert, 15 days a month. They had about 14,15,000 kunas. So they were still set up for individuals who could do it. I ask what was their effectiveness in that case? When we saw that we had 450 health workers, 45 of them were just health workers. And then the minister didn't give consent to their reception. So it was all politically done after all. How was the public procurement? We can see that the public procurement was strange. I'm only looking at the Dubrovnik hospital, when we see there that from their incomes that they had on the income side was practically every year he was falling. In the end we came to 2011 about 106 and a half million, 106 million were missing. That it really was a bad situation and that in those things on employees yes and which is 58% and material costs 35%. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] But this second is how it went since procurement, employment and individuals as they had not at Dubrovnik Hospital, I'm not talking about her. they have applied and worked in the way they have done this should be asked to run some associations today. [[Intruder Stazic: But time, time co-worker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69492	Replica, Ana Komaračić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69493	Dear Vice President, here's your colleague, you mentioned a lot in your debate about the 2011 report and what happens today in health care. So in this 2011 report, the fact is that 30 of KBC's were processed, which is general hospitals. But just so it doesn't get out of sight in Croatia, we have 61 hospitals. And I think it's about four and a half million people who can worry us about what the amount of money we need, especially when we're talking about in terms of cold drive and all that, so they need such buildings, such electricity, water, auxiliary staff, the administration of such hospitals, etc. So what I'm really trying to say is, and you're somewhere your colleagues said in your presentation, that the truth about health care, so here says for 2011, we have, so minus 5 billion. It's probably not going to be much better because the system is the same. We need to reach a consensus on this and really go into health reform. But it seems to me that it's very difficult, because your colleague used to be in the replica we'd all be reforming, but not in our backyard. That's not how it's gonna work, because then reforms can't be implemented. My personal opinion is that up to 21 hospitals in Croatia, every county means one hospital, and 60 hospitals in 4 and a half million inhabitants cannot possibly be a sustainable system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69494	A new replica, Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69495	... I'm really a beginner, so you can forgive me a little bit for everything. [[You can't hear the phone.]] [[Intruder Stazic: Turn on the microphone.]] I'd just like to brief Turkish colleagues to look back at the part of your presentation when you asked us to bond today in the debate on the State Audit report. I cannot, however, mention these unconditional opinions concerning these two hospitals, the more we have heard today during the debate often the convocation that it is necessary to reward local leaders for the unconditional finding, so it is probably the same criterion for these others. You also mentioned that it would be a good idea for the sanity managers to be economists. Here we have the opportunity in Karlovac to replace a good director who had good results, set a high standard for his employees and his patients. It was not during his term of office that debts were incurred but those debts had been inherited earlier and the recovery manager of the economic profession was appointed. We may have thought it was political personnel, but in the Karlovac public, the gentleman had an opinion about him was that he was a good economic expert. Maybe that's why he left the hospital on December 31st and we've got a new sanity manager again. Neither is this economist, nor is it the former director. It really gets the impression that this way of humanizing and reforming is not good, and the Karlovac public is confused, and especially are patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69496	Replica response, Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69497	My colleagues are true, because there are several, here are three thoughts listed by these which are covered, that they have received unconditional opinion. And there are others in Croatia that would probably get an unconditional opinion and there are others whose performance results are positive or are somewhere at the level of sustainability, which work quality. But I was talking about something else. So, there are definitely good examples, but first and foremost a deeper analysis of the whole system, first and foremost territorial, and then that professional health care which, where and how much of that system is needed. But what is certainly unsustainable is that when you have a hospital, and there you have it in this data, so you'll find that you have a hospital that spends nearly 70 percent on staff costs, it's a hospital that unfortunately has no chance of survival. If she really works for you according to what's supposed to be for the job of that hospital and they really need it. I don't know how with 70% employee costs to provide quality conditions for all other costs that one hospital needs to settle. So she must be making a lot of losses. And it's one of the cancer wounds, and unfortunately this revision has shown that during this period, a 400-day job seems to me to be new employees without your consent, I don't know how they did it because we in the Primorian-Gorski County have never been able to hire anyone without your consent anywhere, not in the House of Health, let alone elsewhere. So here's what I'm saying. There's a lot of details we could talk about. There are hospitals that function outside, which are not covered by this revision, but there are causes and are still in some things except in order to tell the financial or management system, there are also in the health care system itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69498	A new replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69499	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Đuric, at first you mentioned that the former health minister here was a bit of a joke and that we all laughed there. Believe it's nothing fun at all, what he said a man laughs sometimes out of pain. However, I am glad through these replicas of individual SDP agents that you have not responded because it is really difficult to react to when someone mentions a willingness, and has no idea what it is or when someone mentions it and why the doctor’s willingness to ask and what it is for the doctor to sit here, and he knows very well what it means when the doctor is on the alert and what it means for the doctor. Then when individuals get involved in how much the Croatian hospital needs, how many patients need a doctor, what they need to give them, and what not at all these professions that is terrifying. I'm personally a doctor of veterinary medicine, I wouldn't think of any prime minister, president and party to humiliate their profession, really not. And I don't think I'd let anyone who didn't do that sort of thing humiliates the profession of a doctor. I'm not a lawyer, I'm just very often experienced from a doctor everything that can be raised and Croatia can be raised, it could be raised with its health system. Unfortunately, if only laws are respected and you do not have a health minister who has the power of the finance minister to manage the funds then we can say and worry about the health of the really Croatian nation. We really can. I'm sorry, two years doesn't seem like anything. Here, the Immunological Institute that's another fact as far as you know about this immunological, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69500	Now let's hear the replica of the Golden Touch.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69501	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues, Hope, invited me when you said that in health care we must also talk about mathematics. Well, I totally agree with you we should talk about math, but I'm afraid when you made a decision to cut your rate from 15 to 13 you didn't think about math, you didn't count, you didn't talk about math. Because the results of the rate reduction are the health collapse we're experiencing today. Based on a 2% reduction in the rate from 1.05.2012 when a reduction in the rate was introduced to date, around 3 billion kuna went into health care. Counting on the fact that somewhere around 3 billion and 300 million kuna we've recovered health care and the result is at the end of last year a billion and 200 kuna loss in health care again. Here, it's math. I think you've had some really bad math, and I think the consequences of healthcare will certainly come after that. And I'm afraid that your future math is pretty bad, because through health reform you say that you need to get your unhealthy activity out of health care you'll get statisticalally that they'll be less employed but through the service you'll pay for it again and math will be bad again if we don't take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69502	Next is Branko Vuksic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69503	Dear Vice President, I almost didn't hear you. Dear colleagues, you said in your debate that we must insist on excellence in which I fully agree. Now the question is how can we first school, we give big money to doctors when they finish specialising in order to send them to the European market and then import them from Bulgaria and Romania's doctors as their replacement? Is that insistence on excellence? We certainly will not achieve excellence so that the price of the doctor's work is reduced to the price of the housekeeper's work. All that's done so far is lead us to one of those things let's all be equal, all of us to the same penalty, we can't do that. In order to have excellent experts, we have to make some difference and we have to pay for what we have and pay for it, how? The crisis is, but if we make the right system of values, and if everything we say and we get the label of the populists, we reduce everything we get, we get billions of savings, and in the debate, I'm going to go back to what we're constantly short of when we warned when you were reducing the contribution to health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69504	And the replica, Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69505	Thank you very much. Comrade Turin, the health situation was never simple and you said so yourself. Debts have been generated for years. Why? It's not easy to answer that question. Maybe they were wrong in the '90s when numerous, bad decisions were made, one of them was certainly the abolition of the primary health care center, remember what wealth it was for our health system. We've also had patronage and microsurgery and pediatrics and dentistry and stuff. We don't have any of that today. The consequences of this poor HDZ decision are still felt today. It may be the wrong decisions that have not critically led to the construction of hospitals where it shouldn't have been critical decisions to expand some existing capacities where this was not necessary so that today we have half-empty departments, sophisticated, overpriced equipment that is not used with full capacity and patients go to large centres such as Rijeka and Zagreb. Perhaps the answer lies in the fact that all reforms so far have sought the financial consolidation of the health system I swear that something much, much more important has been forgotten, and these are structural reforms. Whether it was a lack of courage or not, I'm not going to get into it and I don't know, but I know that the problems haven't arised in the last year, and that's what the 2011 revision proves in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69506	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, Branko Vuksic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69507	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's very strange how the audit for 2012. The same team works well and for 2011, it doesn't work well as if they are unless it's by political resemblance or if they've been doing a political similarity report. Far away in such claims I don't go that far. 95% of these discussions were not about the subject that should have been discussed with law, with the right. And for the first time, I approve that the Vice-President of the Parliament has not responded because looking at the funny thing is, it's either ridiculous or tragic to talk about the 2011 report in 2014 when that health care and today's health care, when those opportunities and today's opportunities are so different, and the second is that we are in such a deep crisis, which is the total collapse of health and we are now talking about what was in 2011 and whether this report has been well done since 2011 about the government that we should no longer mention. Here in the opening speech Mr. Prime Minister Milanovic said we will not look back, you will see what the former government was doing, they will not be our alibi for our failures. We don't listen to anything else for a year, last year, maybe the first months weren't when it was a euphoria to put comrades in the lead positions. However, there is something to be said, before one of the colleagues said that she was politicized in hospitals and that politics had entered hospitals, and political colleagues had never left the hospital. The Minister of the HDZ Government, Andrija Hebrang, the health minister, said the following, you have dozens of interviews, a hundred polemics about it. Whoever does not implement HDZ policy will be placed at the head of the hospital. Point. They were all removed. Then these others came, and they replaced these, and these came, and they changed. Politics never got out of the hospital. Unfortunately, politics has also entered the surgical halls, the O.R. We know recently that one of the best experts has been removed because he was in the way of who? Head of a hospital that's not up to the work they're doing. So when Mr. Milinovic says that he would leave all those recovery directors and so on, I wouldn't leave many of them just because they're put in a way that's a meat-eating way in those places. I agree, politics is neither on HTV nor in hospitals nor in surgical rooms, etc. But let's change the criteria. Every generation of authorities swears, we will now be more honest and then after that we see that neither the fairer nor the moral verticals they represented. Someone said, "We've denied the health care, "from the predecessors, "I think from the Kukuriku coalition, "but we've given the money to the economy. That's a terrible line. People will die on the road, but businessmen will have money. No businessmen will have money or people will have good health. What is the intensity of this neoliberal government that falsely pretends to be social democratic? Privatize health care. What they said, they swore we wouldn't, I mean, they didn't believe, but they swore. Some are not believers. Everything that's done is upside down. To discuss 2011 in 2014, I repeat in collapse, in a situation where people need to wait for the most ordinary reviews per month for those specialist years. And what's that, a list for what? A list of candidates for God's courier, that's all, for Mirogoja. We cheat all the time, we're gonna do something for our citizens, and then there's these populists, the laborers who say, no, they're cheating on you. No, we cheat who we warn, the government says. You promise the people they can't. Yes, and the government promised the people 2011 something, and now it's doing something else entirely. She swore there would be no privatisation, they said no, we'll limit it, we'll encourage private health, but not at the expense of the public, but now she doesn't know what's public, which is private, which is not, which jumbus is made with these shifts, the shifts, what is done, how do you treat the biggest specialists, who will treat us? No one. These rich, 10% Croatian citizens who have money, they'll be treated outside, they won't be given, I don't insult anyone, Bulgarian and Romanian doctors because they won't know that language, so they'll probably go out to Croatian doctors in Vienna, the poor won't have any drugs, and what's going to happen? Is that the Croatian state we swore so much for? Many turn to the grave when they see what happens. Now I'm going to talk about a piece that the doctors know for sure. What we spend money on, and we shouldn't spend money, which they warned me not to have politicians in general practice, which can protect health care, and that's a lot of doctors in health care doing jobs, under quotes, lower species that shouldn't work. The ophthalmologists are looking at patients, checking their eyesight. There are educated optometrists in Croatia, but ophthalmologists are not given that title. Look at Europe, we're just looking at it. This lobby is strong, this lobby was strong, and during Mr. Milinović, this lobby is strong today, it just doesn't give, and it's very hard to break through, but the college license in Velika Gorica has. That's what they gave, but they don't call it. Well, we're a crazy country. Well, that's amazing. They don't let vision be examined, so no one out there does, so he's too expensive an ophthalmologist, so he didn't go to school for it, he needs to be treated around, by the wounded and everyone else. We're not, it's a lie, a notorious lie to reform it. We're under reform thinking we're gonna fire, cut, cut, but we don't know. I agree with Mr Milinovic that nothing has been done in reform. If I were to teach you a lesson about it, it doesn't make sense, this debate about 2011 doesn't make any sense, like this health reform doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69508	We still have to hear one individual debate. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69509	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected chief auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'll focus on the debate only on the General Hospital of Zadar. I think it makes sense to talk about something that happened even though it was better that we discussed it earlier, so we know where we are today and where we're going tomorrow and what's going on and what's happened with our health system, with our hospitals. By the end of 2011, the general hospital had a cumulative deficit of 116 million 564 thousand and 276 kuna. She had claims, but they didn't care about those claims. Something a little more specific. What irregularities were found in that hospital? The hospital performs scientific, research and teaching activities although that activity is not included in the Register of Trade Courts. Furthermore, the director of the hospital did not adopt the Home Order Regulation in accordance with Article 32 of the Statute of the hospital. Then, the meetings of the Expert Council shall not be held at least once a month as it should be. The Committee for Medicinal Products for the Governing Council of the Hospital shall not submit this monthly financial report on clinical trials in accordance with Article 70. The health care law. Then, the administrative board of hospitals has only 4 and not 5 members in accordance with Article 57. The health care law. A member of the Board of Directors has not been elected, of course, to the Board of Directors. The hospital shall establish a sterilisation department although it does not meet the requirements for the organisation of the department in accordance with Article 2. Rules on the formation of departments in general and special hospitals. The Director of the Hospital gave temporary consent to work in the activity of ophthalmology for 4 healthcare professionals in the Lakrim polyclinic, although the hospital in that activity does not achieve at least an average execution at the level of the Republic of Croatia, contrary to the Regulation on criteria for granting authorisation to the healthcare professional for the conclusion of the business of the employer as well as the opposite of Article 125. The health care law. Furthermore, the director of the hospital employed indefinitely without the agreement of the Minister of Health, Mr. Former Minister in 2011 of a worker, in 2012. Seven workers. The payment control of salaries, regular and overtime work, the accounting of duty, preparedness and change of work has established derogations from the job names regulation and the coefficients of the complexity of public service transactions for chefs, drivers, warehouses, plumbers, tailors to pay by applying the coefficient of 0,9 which is more than the regulation prescribed. The derogations have also been established in the application of the coefficient for the operations of the manager of the boiler room, transport service manager, kitchen manager, etc., etc. The fees for the Director and Assistant Director shall be calculated in such a way as to take, as the basis for the account, the principal’s basic salary rather than the basis of the place at which they are on duty, contrary to the interpretation of the Joint Commission for the interpretation of collective agreements. The hospital with workers concluded an authorial contract for conducting clinical trials, which is contrary to the principles of labour law and the Labour Act. The control of the implementation of the contract obligations of the Institute has established that the hospital incorrectly fulfils the accounts by the DDS without taking into account the general and special rules of encryption and in accordance with the rules of the Office's Directorate. Services that can be performed in contracted daily hospitals shall not be invoiced as a SKZ account or exclusively as a DTS shall not be subject to the instructions of the institution by which an account for a child escort admitted to hospital treatment shall be placed as a DBL all-day stay, not as a DTS account. It does not expose personal accounts in the specialised consular health care to the codes of contracted activity and sub-division, does not monitor all business activities related to the implementation of contractual protection from compulsory health insurance and does not operate within the maximum monthly amount in accordance with Article 5 of the Agreement, does not monitor the consumption of medicinal products and consumption of consumable materials, does not monitor and does not analyse the day-to-day hospitalisation and re-reception of patients to hospital treatment whose main diagnosis is listed in chapter 21 of the MKEB-10 and in the case of DTP invoices for account items, does not record all procedures, medicines and materials with zero cost. On this basis, the proposal to the Administrative Council on the need to initiate the procedure for the temporary resolution of the Director pursuant to Article 62(2), paragraph 3 and 8. The health care law. And what happens after that? HDZ gathers and rises to its feet because the director is being replaced because it is an attack not on the HDZ not on that director but on Zadar on the population of Zadar because it will no longer work like this. And I want to know who put the principal up before? Maybe it was SDP's, so now you're protecting him. What's this about? But it's been a while. But what I'm trying to say is, at that time, the hospital began to interfere with the construction of a polyclinic. The building of a polyclinic that began in socialism back in 1989. This is where our colleague Milinović was then as Minister of 9.10.1908. There were some elections again, and so every few papers were opened for the elections, and after a few months, the works were closed. Due to irregularities, he was involved and the DORH had no clear accounts regarding changes in documentation, construction, some additional works, all in all and problems with the investor himself. And so it was waiting, it was said that it would be quickly removed from the ministry we couldn't get any answers and so came the new government, the hospital ended, the polyclinic ended. This polyclinic which has read here that the Keops pyramid of its construction lasted 20 years, and the polyclinic by the arrival of this furniture on power ended, without much pomp and without much promise. All the time HDZ was talking about how the polyclinic would end but it didn't work out, but big debts were made at the hospital. Neither the health of the citizens nor the patients of any status that will therefore be, is the constant spread of some halabuca that this central government is doing to Zadar and the citizens of Zadar. In fact, it introduces order because this is what you'll admit and you've been unbearable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69510	The replica Darko Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69511	Well, I keep listing this State Audit report now, so I couldn't find everything you read anywhere. Probably also the chief state auditor was worried that he didn't know that he wrote it all, and apparently you were reading the Health Department's inspection supervision over the Zadar hospital. So you weren't talking about the State Audit report. And what I can tell you is that I am convinced that the revision of the Ministry of Health has been sent to the Zadar Hospital for political reasons. And it's probably all true what you're saying about these irregularities. As it would be good if the minister sent the inspection again tomorrow, and I guarantee you that 60 to 70% of us have the same irregularities in the same hospital, and some are corrected, and rightly, it's probably the exact report of the Health Department's inspection. But if my relationship was the same to Zadar, you mentioned it either to Koprivnica or to Rijeka or to anyone else, the truth I opened the papers in 2008.I inherited this contract as you know, but as soon as I saw it and the services when they realized there were some irregularities I had no hair on the tongue taken the documentation and went right to the DORH. I didn't care who the director was, who was in power, ate from HDZ, was from HDZ, but I was without language hair when I saw the irregularities went to DORH to report and resolve the situation and therefore the works were stopped, but in our mandate were restored works in 2011, at the end of 2010 and 2011, they started working, it was a project of the former government. And what you're gonna finish is I'll be honored if I happen to get a call coming down.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69512	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69513	My colleague Milinovic, I trust you. And what you said before and what you just said that you didn't see where someone was in power and despite your party colleagues, party colleagues assured you that you weren't helping some hospitals because there's no HDZ in power. And it's good that you confessed here, and I think those who did it should be ashamed. But you're saying that even though this one was found and you believe in all those irregularities, because they're objective and proven you're saying that there's been a shift for political reasons. I wish shifts didn't happen at all, that people were doing their job and I don't care who posted who. But I really want to know who put this man up before? Could the SDP have set him up? And you always point out the protection of those people who have been removed. And look at the wonders, they're all HDZ's. I guess it's their natural, it's natural. I will not defend at all, nor can I defend any political establishment. But how everyone who had been replaced was all HDZ's. So who set them up, dear fellow? Who set them up?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69514	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this agenda point, and now we're going to interrupt the session. We'll continue tomorrow with a point under regular number 24, and then we'll discuss the point under regular number 32. It's a job for tomorrow and then there's a vote at noon. Thank you, everyone. Good night! Session interrupted at 20.29 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-06-0.u69515	Report on the financial audit carried out by hospital health institutions. The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I am voting on the following conclusion: - Report on the financial audit carried out by the hospital health institutions for 2011. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted unanimously by 113 votes in favour.
