ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77673	I would just like to ask the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, will the club be able to speak after the minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77674	No, no. All the information is provided, the clubs will be looking for a break, that's the usual, we know that. That's the rule of business. Please, yes, I ask the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to give us information, report on the situation and circumstances related to the floods in Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77675	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will try to give you full information about the situation that followed from the period of May 03rd when we had the first heavy rains that lasted until May 05th in the area of several counties, resulting in an increase in water levels in drains, streams and rivers. First of all, the Požega-Slavon County, Sisak-Moslavina, Osijek-Baranja, Bjelovar-Bilogor County were hit at the moment. According to the Croatian Waters, the total was flooded at these times at 3346 hectares of agricultural forest and other areas. In the first part, 198 houses, 2 cattle farms, 30 residential-economic facilities, 10 economic facilities, 1 gas station, 1 plastic. Through the intervention of all the competent services, the damage to the citizens was significantly reduced. However, heavy rains that began on Tuesday 13 May in the almost entire BiH area caused the majority of the rivers in BiH to rise and caused floods. The situation of the natural disaster was declared in the majority of municipalities, and the state of natural disaster in Tuzla Canton, Bræko District, Zeničko-doboski, Zavidovići, Maglaj, Kaknja and Olova. In the afternoon of BiH, assistance has been asked from the Republic of Croatia in helicopters, rescue teams, boats and water rescuers. Of course, the Republic of Croatia reacted immediately under the very agreement that we have realized. The situation in BiH, therefore, has directly affected the state of the river Una and Sava at the same time in the Republic of Croatia, especially in the area of Slavonia where large amounts of rain fell and rapid and rapid water growth occurs. The maximum water stops in Slavonski Brod, Slavonski Šamac and Županja were exceeded. I will only indicate the difference, which is, in Slavonski Brod more than half a metre, in Slavonski Šamac than ever the highest measured maximum of 114 cm, in Županja 104 cm. On 15 May in the area of Drenovac, Vukovar-Srijem County of the coastal water supply network, there is a threat of 10 to 15 houses. Local fire departments, municipal services with the help of Croatian Waters worked to defend the same, the mayor of Vukovar-Srijem County declared an elementary disaster for the entire area of the county due to major material damages caused by agricultural cultures and other goods as a consequence of the excessive rainfalls that occurred at these moments. The State Administration for the Protection and Rescue of 16th May was united by local and regional (regional) self-government in this area by 350 members of the dedicated Armed Forces for the Požega-slavonian, Brod-Posavina and Vukovar-Srijem County. About 400 family houses were flooded in Pleternica, partial evacuation of Pleternica, Gradca Požega and Lipika was carried out, and Dom Ivanovac 21 residents and staff were evacuated under Brodsko-Posavina County. In the village Drenovci all available forces on the ground were in defense of 61 endangered buildings. During the afternoon of the 16th of May, there was a rapid deterioration. All available forces are engaged in the identification of the banks along the Sava River, which is rapidly growing from Slavonski Brod to the border with the Republic of Serbia. At these moments are the most endangered are Slavonski Brod, Oriovac Municipality, Slavonski Šamac, Oprisavci, Okučani Municipality and the wider area of Županje. The integrity of the dikes in the wider area of Županje, Topola, Bosniak and Gunja is also at risk. Since the morning of the 16th of May, additional forces have been engaged in the people and mechanisms for the identification of the embankment and possible evacuation in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County in particular... from Rajevsko Sela to Racinovac. The total defensive stock is 210km, and 16th of 15.00 hours is the break of the dikes in several places near Rajevsko Sel, at 15.15 there is a break in the embankment of Račinovac and at 15.30 o'clock in the ossip near Gunja. I must mention that in the territory of Croatia, Kostajnica and Dvora were in effect an extraordinary state of defence against floods for the Una River at the same time. The water of the river Una was poured into the area of Kuljana, Unčana and Zamlaća, and Croatia Kostanica itself is partly flooded. The Centre for Protection and Rescue of the Republic of Croatia used additional operational protection and rescue forces, headquarters at local and county level together with dedicated organised forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the military, police, civil protection, Croatian Red Cross, employees of Croatian Waters, municipal services, citizens, associations of Croatian defenders, as well as other associations on the ground were fully engaged, and at these times the military provided amphibious, combined machinery, sculptures and Polish cuisine. Evacuation is required and organised by buses from Rajevsko Sel, Gunja and Racinovac. The residents were transferred to Vrbanja in those moments. What I want to stress, which is part of the population in the evacuated areas, refuses to leave their homes even though they are told to threaten the immediate danger to life. During the night of the 17th of the 18th of May, the County Center 112 Vukovar received 200 calls from persons who remained trapped in the upper parts of the facility. In those moments, I must say, personally, in Gunja, where there were 100 buses in those moments, it was completely dry. People refused to leave their homes, which is understandable what everyone thinks is the moment that it won't happen. All the warnings that were, I'm now getting to whether or not someone knew about the danger there's no person claiming in the Gunja area who was the most injured that she didn't know about the evacuation order. 28 police vehicles until the last minute while they could via the megaphone inform all residents to withdraw, I say personally at three o'clock while the water was only up to the ankle of 100 buses there were, and only 108 people at those moments were ready to evacuate. Three hours behind that place was completely flooded, which you could later see in the pictures. Members of the dedicated armed forces of the Republic of Croatia under very difficult and dangerous conditions then had to evacuate to a safe 60 persons. The evacuation included the HGSS station Vinkovci, the State intervention unit from Osijek, which had to withdraw in order to damage the boats. Only in those moments thanks to the fact that it didn't start in time and that they didn't use it now will I call it dry transportation, only until morning four boats were destroyed, of course by the fences, by the floods and by everything else and it's a good thing we didn't have those who were killed in those moments among those who were saving people. During the 18th, 19th and 20th of May, the evacuation of residents who remained in the settlements of Gunja, Racinovci, Rajo Selo was carried out, and in some cases I have to stress by force. Members of the Croatian Red Cross 750 members led and organized reception centres together with local units with participation in logistics activities. In flooded areas, access is no longer possible without police approval. Paralyzes the evacuation of surviving cattle, domestic animals, the disposal of the deceased, and the veterinary service is involved precisely because of the danger of becoming more severe and contagious. From the Ministry of Economy's stock reserves to the flooded area, assistance for the evacuated population was sent, and the line of defense, which is on 20 May in afternoon hours, I must say that Strošinci settlement completely underwater, the population evacuated during the night of May 19th on May 20th. All available forces are working to defend the settlements from the water, there is a defensive rash towards the town of Strošinci. The shield all available forces are working to defend the settlements from the water. In Gunja, an entire population was evacuated, a tour of the houses carried out by the HGSS in search of possible victims. Care is continued for abandoned and killed animals through the Amphibian, dedicated Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The Drenovec water has not penetrated, the dikes are being strengthened. In Đurići, the water partially penetrated, most of the population was evacuated, a group of younger DVD members still defending the village remained. During the day, bold defensive embankments with extra layers of sandbags. In Racinovci, the site was flooded, the entire population was evacuated and during the day members of the HGSS and the dedicated armed forces of the veterinary service worked to save abandoned and killed animals. Rajo Selo, the place is flooded, the entire population has been evacuated. The same information, during the day members of the HGSS and military, veterinary services are working to rescue abandoned and killed animals. Posaviski Podgaci, a partial evacuation has been carried out, the water has partially entered the site, defensive dikes are being done, and the current situation is under control. In Bosniaks, the situation is under control, most critical of all, in the settlement of Topola, where defensive dikes are being strengthened. The parishioners, the state without change and under control, the rash has not been breached. Shield, the water didn't penetrate. In Baba's beam, it's very difficult but under control. In the Vrbanja water settlement, she did not enter the settlement, there was a defensive coup against the Posavina Rats. And I'll just tell you that you know about the population number, according to the list of people in Gunja is 5033 inhabitants, in Rajjev Sel 1407, Strošinci 696, Račinovci 972, Drenovci 3049, Đurici 418, Posavski Podgaci 1568, Bosniaks 4653, Županja 13 thousand 775, Štitar 4262, Babina Greda 2608. It is clear from this that more than 30,000 people at risk are working and the exact number of people at risk will, of course, be able to know in the situation if they come... Evacuations, this list is run by the Croatian Red Cross. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must stress that many evacuated have gone to neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially Brcko. Part of the people who went to the family from Gunja. Of course these first four, Gunja, Rajo Selo, Stošinci, Račinovci, Đurići and Posavski Rats are numbers that are no longer in their place of residence at the moment. I must stress that the Ministry of Social Care has organised what is most important to reduce these consequences in the reception centres that operate in Cerna, before that was in Vrbanja, we have secured an additional area in Tenja. Also new positions if needed in Vukovar. In the centres that are responsible for this area, I must stress that the financial assistance is secured, an emergency intervention in terms of the basic needs of the citizens is functioning. It is provided at the reception centres with health care and equally psychosocial care and medical teams to prevent so far we have no indication that any epidemic has occurred. What I must also stress in the homes of social care is that there are 131 people who have been in a difficult health condition. Part of it is immobilized, incontinent, and that number of persons as well as children is ensured as far as the Ministry of Social Care is concerned. The situation in Brod-Posavina County is still difficult but is under control for now. In Požeško-Slavonska situation is normalized, the Sisak-Moslavina situation is normalized. On the hired forces I think it's important that you have this operation, the operational forces on 20 May 2014 are next. An army in locations with a total of 872 members of a dedicated Armed Forces. Firepower, 300 firefighters in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, Croatian Red Cross 740 members, HGSS 50, police over 1000 people deployed in positions and above all to protect property and prevent any alienation. State Directorate for Protection and Rescue with the teams of the State intervention unit, the national civil protection intervention unit of 22 teams. I must stress that one part of the teams is also in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And as for Croatian waters, their regular engagement. Services for protection and rescue, veterinary services, Institute of Public Health, local municipal services, associations of Croatian defenders, other associations, citizens of volunteers can assess this only after all reports have been received. But I can give an estimate that at this point in the struggle with the floods directly, it means in the operation of 4,000 people in the area. I would like to mention that the basis of the request from Bosnia and Herzegovina for rescue aid according to previous approvals has been sent to 15 members of the Armed Forces, meaning two Mi-8 helicopter crews for the Maglaj area, Zavidovici, Doboj, Orasje, Bosnian Shamac, they were extended to engage because they needed additional assistance. They took 35 flights to save people and transport goods. State intervention unit 8 members, 4 vehicles and 16 sets of pumps and are further in the area of Orasja and operated in the area of the Sanski Bridge. During the night of May 20, 98 people have evacuated, up to now 126. They're continuing to evacuate the population with two boats and a pump pump. As for the weather forecast for Croatia for May 21st and the coming days, I must say that it goes on hand, but we never know how long it will actually last. And Eastern Croatia, I'll read it sunnyly with a little to moderate cloud. We expect that these very favourable weather conditions would ensure that we can continue with the action that is going on at the moment. What the government decided at yesterday's session, which is to declare a disaster for the Vukovar-Srijem County area. This implies that the local headquarters, which according to the Protection and Rescue Act, is competent to handle these operations, is unable to ensure protection and rescue. Therefore, the State-level Protection and Rescue Centre has taken control of the situation in Vukovar-Srijem County since the time of its adoption. Namely, the plans that exist there on paper and for Vukovar-Srijem County, the Civil Protection Plan exists but unfortunately only on paper. So that answers on the issue of coordination and everything else need first of all to read the Protection and Rescue Act which exactly speaks about who is responsible for coordinating which forces, which are the roles of the state service and at these times when we analyse the assessments of Croatian waters that were the day before the 16th year when the decision was made only to say on one example might be an excuse for making a decision that there will be no evacuation in the affected areas. That's the conclusion of the County Station. However, such a decision is, of course, based on the data available at that time. But it is inadmissible that if there is a change, and there has been a change in the embankment at that time, the County Department must take measures that it has in its plan what if such an extraordinary situation occurs. Unfortunately, this has not happened, it has happened with a serious delay, and we have actually lost time in which much more could be done to help the population with less engaged forces. Tomorrow afternoon, an extraordinary meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be held on the ground itself, meaning in County with the aim of agreeing on those measures, means a report on the situation we have in the area, the flooded area, as well as the approval of the cost of providing assistance to the population and whatever it takes to stabilise the situation as soon as possible. I have to point out the following. This situation neither ends at this time by solving the situation on the ground itself, because the fall of the Sava River waterway as well as the situation we have is favourable. However, there is a serious period behind this in which the area itself needs to be resolved. I will immediately answer that the situation we have in particular must be pointed out in Slavonski Brod is significantly different from Vukovar-Srijemska. There it happened that the quality of operations of headquarters in Slavonsko-Brodski County has shown that they have best helped Vukovar-Srijem for the reasons that we are thanks to the orderly implementation of the operational plans that they have provided the possibility that we can transfer forces from Slavonsko-Srijemska to the area of Vukovar-Srijem County. I must point out that a large number of volunteers who came to the field, who were willing to help as well as solidarity of citizens not only in places that were threatened and aiding the local population. We should point out an absolutely large number, so I have to say the especially shown solidarity in places where the reception centers where we are going to have the next situation, that people have accommodation, that food is provided, that everything is prepared, and in principle there is no one in those halls. Not because they're not there, but because people have taken them from their place, live with them, feed and work. They only go back to sleep, of course, unless there's room for them in the house. And that's something that's special to highlight at these moments. I've spent all these days down in the field. I have to point out in particular, I don't want to stress, but the efforts they've made now I'm going to say members of the Croatian Army, the HGSS, the Red Cross, the police and everyone who's on that field that was really a day and night battle. They're still going on. And at this point I think that from the state level, especially now from a position where it's much easier to make decisions, because the state-level headquarters will take over the part that, of course, didn't fit in coordination and integration, that will be the result of that and an even better situation that we have. I would like to point out that last year we had a variant that in the Republic of Croatia at the time of the water wave that started in Germany caused serious casualties both in Germany and in Austria, Slovenia and Hungary and Slovakia, later and in Serbia all on the way to the Black Sea. The only country that had no fatalities and had no serious damage was Croatia. I say this for reasons that sometimes forgets how Croatia can also do its part of the job. We had an extraordinary situation here, shooting a channel that was built just a few years ago. It caused a serious blow, if it hadn't been for me, probably at these moments, or even at these moments, I probably wouldn't have been here in the Parliament or told you anything. I hope I've provided exhaustive information, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77676	Thank you, too, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have already said that this is temporary information, not the final report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the situation and consequences and the measures to be taken or to be taken to address the consequences or to build up the systems and facilities that will be needed in order to further reduce the risks of floods to a minimum. And our parliamentary responsibility will be in what measures we will take through the budget and the laws or what estimates we will give about the reports we will receive here. That's what we'd like to conclude. I can see my hands in the air, we've learned that already. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77677	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the Croatian Labourists – I am looking for a 15-minute break so that we can contact the citizens about these events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77678	Thank you very much. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77679	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In connection with this cataclysm in Slavonia, in connection with the flood, we are also looking for a 15-minute break so that we can express our views from our thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77680	Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77681	Dear Mr. President, here is after we heard this information but also because of the situation in eastern Croatia on behalf of the DC club and the independent representatives of Martincevic, Baloevic is looking for a 15-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77682	Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77683	Mr. President, given all this together that happened especially on the Deputy Prime Minister's report on behalf of the HDZ Club, I've been looking for a break for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77684	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77685	Mr. President, on the Deputy Prime Minister's report, we're also looking for a break for the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77686	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77687	Dear Mr. President and at our club, we feel it is necessary that all clubs who certainly want to say that say their views on the situation in the flooded areas but also make some conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77688	Honorable representative Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77689	Dear Mr. President, for the same reasons, the National Minority Representatives Club is requesting a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77690	Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77691	Yes, precisely because of this apocalypse that took place in eastern Croatia, because of these damages to Bible proportions, our club is looking for a break, but we suggest that we can address not five minutes but something more. We can't? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77692	Honorable representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77693	The SDP club is also looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77694	Thank you very much. We still have Mr. Schamper from HSU? Thank you very much. Let me see, at 10.20. Here, 15 minutes. It's 10.05. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.20 HOURS]] I call on the respected representative Branko Vuksic on behalf of the Croatian Labourists to state his views.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77696	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, is the flood symbolises the situation in the Croatian, good and bad sides. It was seen that what we did through the institutions was bad to prevent floods and that good is what the citizens of Croatia do. One survey showed that as many as 86% of citizens are ready to go to a renovation in Slavonia. Croatia has a big heart and the disaster is uniting Croatia. Catastrophic floods are the result of political floods, inactions, incompetences, negligents, but not just these but all of the current authorities. The government is not, of course, responsible for the natural disaster, for the bloated rivers, for waterways that are more than the highest meter, but is responsible and is guilty of poor protection from disasters. All governments have so far cared more about the height of the ratings, or how to stay in power than the height of the water stops and the consequences of high water levels. That something rotted in the Croatian waters in its administrations to deal with the DORH suggests a disaster in the village of Rajjev where he gave way to the 2010 rash, as the prime minister himself said. The reconstruction cost nearly 23 million kuna, and the rash was built literally holding water until the masters left. I call on the DORH to review all contracts that Croatia's waters have concluded for decades and a half with contractors. It is claimed that many have received money without doing anything, they have not solidified the embankments, they have not cleaned the canals, they have not cleaned the riverbeds and they have charged. It's called money laundering. All of you must not sleep as peacefully as these days, but also in previous years for every more abundant rain, tens of thousands of Croatian citizens do not sleep peacefully for each melting snow. Croatian waters are investing about 800 million kunas annually in preventive maintenance and construction of the flood defence system. What are the results of this investment, by what strategy is not small money being invested? The disaster that took place in Slavonia cannot and must not be a single political option for collecting cheap political points, but it must be a very painful cause for serious debate on the causes and consequences of the floods in the Assembly. Croatian waters must take account of the past, but the most important word should be DORH, because common sense points to the conclusion that money was not spent on purpose and that Croatian waters should say what they will do in the future. What will Croatian waters do to prevent disasters like those in the village of Raj, so that we do not repeat Gunja and Drenovci? It's too expensive to repair damage every year. It is a painful and stressful experience of tens of thousands of citizens and that those who do not know or those who find it difficult to pet their money sleep peacefully. So we are looking for answers and a plan of Croatian waters, not improvisation, but a plan to ensure the prevention of disasters of these proportions. All those who say that the damage cannot be prevented are deceived because the experiences of other countries testify that the damage can be reduced to the least possible measure. We're asking the Parliament to discuss the functioning of the Security and Rescue Service, did she react? Just 48 hours before the catastrophic flood of Croatian water convinced the Mayors to sleep peacefully, no floods. We're asking for an urgent answer, but not from the Minister of Agriculture, because he obviously doesn't know what he's talking about, but from experts because of the saved cattle he has to slaughter? Because, as you know, the Minister of Agriculture said that cattle go to slaughter. Well, Croatia has repeatedly reduced the livestock stock, is this what Jakovina and comrades do for the import lobby even in accidents like these floods? We ask that the first part of the debate be held next week and the second part with concrete plans to prevent new floods by the end of June. And finally, it is two words about the behaviour of Prime Minister Milanovic, who claims that the tour of flooded areas and disillusioned people is painting. It is painting if it is done formally, protocolally from necessity, but if it is done with the empathy that chronic Milanovic lacks then it is a visit to flooded areas painting. The Prime Minister's place is with the people. With solidarity, compassion, concern and determination for future moves, citizens rather than Milanovic's PRs should believe. For now, it is only possible to believe in the great heart of hundreds of thousands of citizens who are selflessly giving help to those who need it most. And another proposal, we need to systematically release the VAT here legally for humanitarian donations, not to do so with government decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77697	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to the HDSSB representative club and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here's my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77698	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, I do not believe that there is anyone who has not been shaken by the images, videos we see daily from, and that Croatian television and other commercial televisions are presented to us from Gunja, Drenovac, Rajovsko selo, Račinovac, Posavski rat, Vrbanje, Strošinac, as well as footage of the superhuman efforts of the defenders Slavonski Brod, Jarug, Obrisavac, Novi grada, Klakara and all other places along the Sava. Before that there were also pictures from Pleternica, or Gradac settlements. And now that we're trying to analyze, we see that the fissure of the embankment in Raj's village where there's a great force of water and the amount of water being run by a depression called the Horseman, it's swept towards Gunja and the Drenovci, Đurići, and now here we see and last night the evacuated Strošinci, where the water came to Strosinac and goes further towards, this depression, towards Serbia,..., Morović, etc. So, it's flooded Cvelferia, so the end I'm talking about is named after the 12th Regiment of Austro-Hungarian, Cvelf, Cvelfer, and it's strange to hear from our officials after the tour or showing videos to Commissioner Georgio in Brussels, so video footage from his cell phone, interesting, where he's convinced by his mobile recordings, saying that EU solidarity aid will arrive if the damage is greater than 0.64% of GDP or a total of 280 million euros, or otherwise, it would be around 2 billion kuna, if the damage is greater, and the damage is certainly more than that. It's like he wants to say this, if, yes, maybe we won't. The fact that we will not withdraw funds from the EU also says a statement by the prime minister, who said Bandic, Sean Connery, he said, not Connery, that Croatia from Europe will seek help from the order. So what's that statement? I don't want to be in this accident, in this cataclysm unwittingly, not to help everyone, and also to the prime minister in this situation, but to say that from Europe we're going to seek help to order is indeed a disaster. Or that Croatia has the strength to repair this damage itself, while saying that aid from Europe is coming to Serbia, so in negotiations with the EU, of a billion euros. So what are we? How do we behave or do this foreign policy or how do we view this Europe and Europe as our part or other? In one case, we have a contractual way, if the damage is greater than 0.64% of GDP, and on the other hand, order is going to ask for help. The way the Croatian people behaves, all of them, from Konaval and Vitalina to north to Varazdin and east to Osijek and other parts, so should the Croatian Government and foreign ministers and all of them. By helping with their hearts and souls this Cvelferia, which is currently truly like the Pannonian Sea, as we can see from these videos. And no, if we don't need it, or if we don't need it, we'll look for order. Or we will withdraw it from those funds that are otherwise scheduled for a regular state, those 11 billion euros that are scheduled for regular state in Croatia, without floods. As Mrs. Mrak Taritash said, we predicted to rebuild cultural monuments from these 145m euros. Well, yeah, but that's without a flood planned. We didn't need a flood to withdraw 145 million euros, and now that this is the situation, when Cvelferia was destroyed, as Hiroshima, we now have opportunities, we have needs, we need and our people need, in that part to restore it and to seek the help of Europe because without this help, the damage will be quickly recovered...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77699	Thank you very much. Time's up. Thank you very much. Dear representative Vesna Škare-Ozbolt, DC and representatives Martincevic, Baloevic, club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77700	Dear Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The East of Croatia faces again the biggest and most severe flood and disaster, I say again because this is the second time in 25 years that people in that part of Croatia must leave their homes and lose their property. Our club is of the view that here we do not need to bicker and move the question of responsibility who is guilty, not at this point, certainly not, but it will one day come to order when the situation is definitely resolved and I don't think we should waste energy on accusations, but surely we need to spend energy on help, the people have shown how big the heart has and what help it can provide, but now it's on the political side, the executive authority to show operationality in repairing the damage, in restoring the houses, in restoring the economy and returning people to their homes. And that's why our club expects a lot of, a lot of operational steps tomorrow from the government's session and concrete measures, concrete answers. In fact, there can be confusion or delusions in the beginning, and this is what we heard from colleagues that Croatia cannot apply to the European Solidarity Fund, which is absolutely not true. That's what we could hear from the president of the executive. In January of this year, there was redefining at the level that could be requested from the Solidarity Fund, so it is usually intended for major disasters where the damage exceeds 0.6% of GDP, but we stress that aid is also available for limited regional disasters and according to the new adopted rules of January 2014 defining a simple and large scale of the right to help, so the threshold is 1.5% of the GDP of an area, i.e. the region. Representatives in the European Parliament have also singled out a lower threshold of 1% of the GDP for EU border states, and I think we can identify ourselves there. A 10% advance provision has been adopted, so we expect the government to take advantage of these possibilities. Representatives in the European Parliament have also provided 12 weeks instead of the 10 so far for applying for funds from the Fund for the recovery of damages, have also extended the use of these funds to 18 months, so far it has been to 12 months. So the time needed for administrative procedures is reduced so that the Commission must respond within 6 weeks of receiving the application, assess whether the conditions for providing assistance have been met. So these are elements if someone doesn't have that information we'll absolutely help them get it, but the government definitely has to ask the EU for help. We also propose to the Government to organise the payment of humanitarian aid to flood victims in Croatia through a PayPal service that can practically be paid out of any country in the world, so... it can be paid in the world. Croatia has a large diaspora, has a big heart again and certainly many would like to pay money to help rebuild houses, material aid. Therefore, funds will be found for reconstruction, funds will be found to raise that part of the eastern part of Croatia, but a good organisation is needed and therefore we call on the government to take concrete steps in this regard. However, due to these climate change, which neither Croatia is able to escape and escape from, a long series of concrete, long-term measures should be made that will practically ensure that both Germany and France, which last year have been thrown out by large floods to do the same. So we're going to have to do a different set of flood defense measures. It is estimated in Europe that around 480% the cost of floods has been increased, now we can imagine how much Croatia can have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77701	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, Your Honor. It is up to the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Tomislav Culjak. Here's my colleague, Chuljak, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77702	President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am for days directly at headquarters fighting the flood in this Slavonia of ours. And unfortunately, it hits me too, and I believe all the people in that area are bidding charges. At the moment when people on the ground are fighting for every house, protecting villages, setting up rabbit dikes for investigations will also be time to determine the culprits, and in particular it is not time to shift the blame from the government and the system at which the Croatian state has a local community because this disaster is eroding local frameworks. On the day he gave in to the rash, the Croatian government was to be there and take responsibility. Taking responsibility at the moment when we see the Sava falling slightly, that the waterfall falls I think it shows enough in the determination of the Croatian government. Of course it takes the presence of the Croatian government and it is better that such a decision has been made, although I would like it to have been made long ago than for people to come to visit this area of County and our county, and the prime minister doesn't remember to call and ask the mayor's chief of staff if something should be done or what he thinks he should do. But, of course, it is here to commend people who are fighting the flood, people from headquarters, mayors, mayor of Županje, Chief Drenovac, Đurić, Posavski Podgajac, Račinovac, Rajevsko Sela, Vrbanje, Soljan, Strošinac, Gunje, Bosniak, Babina Greda, Šitar who together with their locals day and night are placing sandbags and trying to protect their houses. It's easy to say from here that it was supposed to be evacuated one way or another. Of course it was an evacuation order, but people don't want to leave their homes. They leave at that moment, in fact, some won't leave even when the water comes to the roof, they're on the roof, they won't get off the roof, and the police have to force them off the roofs and off the houses and rescue them after this water wave has passed and save the cattle and all their possessions. Of course, I must commend the Croatian army here, members of the Croatian army who are on the ground, who work day and night, police, firefighters, the Mountain Rescue Service, the Red Cross and of course people from all over Croatia who have come with their hearts. This disaster united Croatia, and those people who came there don't look or look for anything. They want to help, they get involved, they help as much as they know, and they can contribute to the non-injuriousness of all these attacks. I could do the same, I was at headquarters at almost all the sessions, so I could talk about whether there were any gaps, which were done by Croatian waters. Could the people of Croatian Waters from all over Croatia have been experts in the water economy, for a particular area, all in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County and distributed by the embankment. Could they have predicted certain things in time? Yes, I have to say that it was, so after some of these concessions that mentioned some kind of internal investigation, After that, people began to transfer responsibly. [[Intruder: Bring the end.]] So people from Croatian Waters and other bodies began to transfer responsibility So let's say so, today the parish people would already be evacuated because we had a proposal 10 days ago that all of the parish would be evacuated etc. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We can talk about it a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77703	Thank you very much, dear Vice President Dom. Thank you very much. There will be more debates about this problem. [[I think you'll let me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77704	The HDZ MPs' club suggests that all MPs in the Croatian Parliament give up the parliamentary pause. Well, here's a suggestion. Of course HDZ will give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77705	We have already told the esteemed Vice President that the individual decision of each representative within the clubs will be taken and agreed by all clubs in the Assembly in order to...... All right, I'm just saying we've already said that we know and we're proposing our own. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I suggest mine. Honorable representative Goran Beus-Richembergh on behalf of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77706	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In the second part, a colleague, Ivica Mandic, who comes from Slavonia, will also address. I want to take this opportunity to, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats club, first of all, congratulate and thank all those people of goodwill, the great hearts who have found themselves in this disastrous situation where they should also be in their hands, knowledge, will, time and love helped all citizens who were directly or indirectly threatened at these worst moments of great floods. We would like to warn that the red light, the red alarm, has been talking about the protection of the area from the flood since September 2010 when the rash broke at the Strmac and when the flooded part of Turopoljski joined. Every year, unfortunately, we fight in the Sava River and in Sisak and Petrinja, but this extreme situation, which has been particularly and additionally endangered by the high water supply of rivers affecting the Bosnian side, has certainly caused the biggest disaster. The fact that this moment while we are sitting here another 4,000 people, soldiers, policemen, firefighters, people from the Red Cross, civil protection, many volunteers from all over Croatia who have come, members of different associations from hunters, defenders and all others, as well as state services from the ones for protection and rescue, to all others, are on the ground this time and are fighting, deserve our full support and that means what the President of the Parliament said cautiously and wisely making decisions in the future when it comes to budgetary resources and laws. As a club, we would like to praise the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which, as never before, has shown a high dose of concentration on the problem and there is almost no restor that has not been on the ground yet, and perhaps the biggest job is just ahead of us. Because behind this is a huge job of resuscitating space, cleaning, disinfection, disinfection, deratiation, allowing people to rebuild their space, to live back in their homes, to rebuild their homes. It's a job that's gonna take months and maybe years. And that's why it's important that we all gather what the heads say to the cup but also the hearts of the cup that we all help and that this situation be resolved as soon as possible. Here you go, buddy Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77707	Ivica Mandic on behalf of the same club, proceed. Here you go, colleague Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77708	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the beginning of my address, I would first express genuine compassion for all those families who lost in this disastrous flood of their loved ones. What I pledged last night was that I expressed my gratitude to our Bosnian countrymen who were also threatened, who asked me here publicly, through this pay phone to the Croatian Government, the Croatian Army, the Croatian police, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, who came to help and who prevented much greater victims in the Bosnian Posavina. There I would continue no matter how much we've done at this point in this catastrophic flood I always feel like we could have done more. It is also the obligation of this highest representative body of the legislative authority of the Republic of Croatia to behave as a Croatian people by all political parties. The Croatian people in this disaster of historical proportions showed their unity. This isn't the time we're looking for guilty people who are more or less guilty. The flood happened. What is our obligation in the Croatian Parliament, especially the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to coordinate the activities of people who have lost material goods at the moment, without existence, without wheat, without spring crops, without cattle, is the task of all of us, the policies that we are representatives of these citizens to find the right ways to make these people less of their problems. What is most important is that before us is both the most responsible and the most demanding task of returning and resuscitating the terrain and the way to enable people to have quality life and return. What is important is that this time, the Croatian people have shown a marked unity, an extremely large heart, and that they have helped in trouble in the right way. That's what we do as an official policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77709	Thank you very much. Dear representative Jadranka Kosor, independent representative and club HGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77710	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice President and Minister. And on behalf of the club, I would first of all like to thank all those who are persistent, day and night without sleep and rest working these days both the police and the military but also volunteers, the GSS, the Red Cross, thousands and thousands of citizens who have been filling bags, not asking when it will start and when it will stop. The images we're looking at these days from flooded areas, unfortunately, reminds us of '91. A year, on the exodus from and these parts of the Republic of Croatia when people really had to leave their homes without anything these days. And every time a big accident happens as it happens these days, then it seems to us that many needed faster and better and more efficient and more efficient and we always have the natural suggestions that we would do. But I suggest we leave these discussions for another time especially in political space. I think the gathering of any and any political points ahead of Sunday's elections that would be based on people's accidents, the horror that took place would have been clouded political points and I believe that all of them would give up. In fact, Croatian people and Croatian citizens have indeed shown that they have love and wisdom that can overcome every verse, so I think that we must show in politics that we have both wisdom and love. Because in a shelf, we can likewise deal with love to overcome the difficulties ahead of us. In fact, it is necessary to seek the help of European funds. I agree with everyone who talked about it today not just for the sake of order, but for the fact that we've been hit by a lot of trouble, a disaster, and we won't be able to do it alone. We have a budget that has no intended position for this kind of disaster. Therefore, it should be immediately and I suggest that the Government make such decisions at its meeting in County tomorrow to initiate the aid procedure. But we also suggest that the government tomorrow deliver a precise plan and program with the holders of that programme by the end of this month within three months, six months, a year. Because I think the real scale of horror and disaster will be visible only when the water retreats. It is likely that after the recovery and all that follows in this process we will be faced with the fact that a part of the house needs to be torn down, rebuilding. We can't do this alone. Therefore, funds should be applied immediately. About what went wrong in penetrating the embankment, who was responsible for the rash that was built here four years ago, was new and had to endure. We can't talk about it in the Croatian Parliament or in the Croatian Government. The competent institutions, the competent authorities, may do so. If there was a fault, if there was a failure, only institutions that can handle it can determine if someone used it. We can't discuss it, we can debate it, but we can't come to the truth and we can't judge it or accuse it. Therefore, I believe that the competent institutions will of course work to trace that truth to the table. And another proposal, there's a lot of suggestions about how we might be able to help. My proposal is that, since the parties stopped the campaign, they donated part of the money or will donate for the flooded. I propose that we agree, and we can, that in the Croatian Parliament we can make part of the funds, one percent of the 10, 20, 30% of the money obtained from the state budget, which gets parliamentary parties to give up linearly and to invest in a special position, i.e. transfer to a special position. In this way, we will receive considerable resources that will, of course, be able to finance the initial work when the water withdraws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77711	Thank you, too, Your Honor. It is up to the National Minorities Club in the Croatian Assembly and the esteemed representative Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77712	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First of all, on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, I would like to express my regret that this tragedy happened in our country, the Republic of Croatia, as well as in the neighbouring countries of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and to express my condolences to the families of those who unfortunately suffered in this tragedy. This common tragedy of countries in the region is a kind of reminder of how close we are to each other and how we are to each other, and it is also a reminder that it will seek a solution that this tragedy will never again seek the joint engagement of all countries in the region. In flooded areas in our country, especially in Gunja and Drenovci, there are numerous members of the Bosniak national minority who has as well as all the citizens who are flooded we show our support but also remind us that at the most difficult times we all become aware of how close we are as people and that some small differences between us are not worth being about to cause any conflict. In front of all of us, and especially before the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the governments of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia, a serious job is taking moves that will need to be taken so that this tragedy does not happen again and that the damage will be resolved as soon as possible. Finally, I want to express my regret that some discussions have already turned into daily political accounts. Tom today is no place in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, and I call on you not to do so. And I suggest Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament that in the end, when all clubs have completed their recommendations, you call for a minute of silence in view of the victims in all three countries, to which we would honor the victims both in Serbia and in Bosnia and in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77713	Thank you, Your Honor. There is a club called Independent List and a respected representative, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77714	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, and above all, we see that the police, that civil protection, the government, in one word, the military, are engaged to the full. The minister had just said that at one point, if I wasn't wrong in Gunja, a hundred buses were waiting for evacuation, that only 100 unfortunate people were evacuated at the time. And yes, I agree with the Vice President of the Parliament, that it is hard to believe that the damage will be apocalyptic, biblical proportions. That East Slavonia will turn our colleague into the Pannonian Sea. We've heard he's protecting himself at the moment 200 kilometers of embankment. 30,000 people in eastern Croatia are at risk. These 30,000 inhabitants are protected somewhere by about 4,000 police officers, soldiers and other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What I would like to particularly welcome is the gesture of the government or the Croatian Army, however, in BiH in the Maglaja area, Orasja where it defends the population there. I express just as my previous condolences to all the victims in both Croatia and BiH, as well as Serbia. What do you do at this point? Yes, it is necessary to seek these EU funds, that, as some MPs have said, VAT on humanitarian compensation means it should be released, that all compensation for the parties should be directed for the flooded. That's 100 million kuna on the annual level. So far, 50 million have been paid in Croatia. Well, we know that without the funds or the party can't exist, but 50% of that money, I agree with Mrs. Kosor, can be directed east to Slavonia. Some parafiscal fees need to be redefined and targeted for the flooded. It should be possible to exit the budget for 2014 as soon as possible and redefine the priorities of Croatian waters. The damage to civilian victims should be compensated. Few of these people in the east, and otherwise in Croatia, have secured their own properties, stables and houses. I therefore stress part of the parafiscal fees to be abolished and directed to the victims, or even that is possible at this time of all national solidarity, to introduce a solidarity tax that would last a year, two or three days to restore the East of Croatia. It should also be noted that Croatia is not only defending itself from floods in Croatia, but also defending itself in BiH and other neighbouring places, and therefore should be equally solidarity with those countries. I'm ashamed to see that for these Euros elections, Istria is wept with party messages, though, only one party. What I want to do is thank everyone who provides assistance to the flooded Slavonia. Yet, it is not clear from the suffering experienced by the flooded population. Croatia is solidarity, Croatia is homogenised, the damage is clear. A few months ago, Gorski Kotor was bound with ice, but this is clearly not compared. It is also necessary to start saving on those small costs, whether it is a team, an outing for the PR agencies, whether I do not know about the local level, county, state, municipal level. It must also be helped in a way that public, municipal companies throughout the Republic of Croatia form their teams that will go the way of Slavonia, and the government, the local community, reduce those costs that are not necessary. Whether it was the phones, the teams, I told the PR agencies or something. And to end once again, every admiration to all people who provide assistance to the disillusioned, who are solidarity with them and normally should be sent a message to the injured population that Croatian or all Croatian temptations are not alone at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77715	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Igor Dragovan on behalf of the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77716	Every lost life is a great tragedy and it is necessary to express condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives in the flood that has struck us. It is also necessary to thank all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have united and have shown that they have a great heart, selflessly helping those who need help, but also thanking those who are now on the ground and who are doing this job, who are selflessly, who are not sleeping and helping people who help to save both people and property and cattle from flooded areas. They deserve the greatest thanks. It defended 200 km of embankment, not that little, but unfortunately there was an accident caused by a major elemental accident and a rash in a place unfortunately where he shouldn't have cracked. There is no cover-up, there is no hiding, because of the future, and because these things don't happen again, the real truth needs to be established without politics, to determine what happened, why it happened, and why decisions that will prevent such things from happening again and again. It is now essential to help people who have lost everything in these floods and the government will make decisions that will restore their faith in the future, their safety, make decisions that will guarantee that all their houses will be restored, that they will be recovered and compensated for all the livestock funds, that their crops will be compensated, those are decisions that the government needs and will make. And we here in the Croatian Parliament need to pass laws by an urgent procedure that will allow all this process to be made within the shortest possible time, which is the primary issue of rebuilding the facilities and the way in which all these decisions will be made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to get these people back to their homes as soon as possible, as safely and painlessly as possible. And finally, politics on accidents is the worst possible demagogy and I don't think it's a place here or anywhere else, even if it's a political campaign right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77717	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Željko Šemper on behalf of the HSU club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go, buddy Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77718	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, after all the fires in Dalmatia during each summer, after the freezing rain last winter, the eastern part of Croatia was affected by a huge flood that even the oldest inhabitants of the region do not remember. The huge amounts of water fell in a short time, and despite the great efforts of the population and the competent institutions of the state, some areas could not be defended. Every day we get pictures of real cataclysms where residents have to leave their homes and even more tragic for those who have lost everything they've created their whole lives. No wonder people who didn't want to leave their home until the last minute and risked their lives. It is unfortunate that there were no more victims in our neighborhoods than our neighbouring countries or that there were large floods in Central Europe. The images from the TV screen show only a partial state, only those who have experienced it speak of the consequences such as the destruction of Hiroshima. It is now important to give great recognition to all citizens of flooded areas, the Croatian Army, firefighters, the Red Cross and all those who are selflessly from all over Croatia to help. Croatia shows a great heart these days in giving and collecting humanitarian aid and among them are our pensioners who, regardless of their poor material condition, make their contribution. They did so often in the last century when they remedied the damages of catastrophic earthquakes in Skopje and Banja Luka. This water will retreat but only then will you see the scale of this disaster and only then follow a great deal. Resuscitation will take months, years. The state will have to assist the population of eastern Croatia within budgetary opportunities, but without the European Union's resources, it will certainly not be able to resuscitate everything. It is certain that, after all, analysis is needed, and after this experience, everything in the defense of endangered areas should be done to prevent or at least reduce this scale of disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u77719	Thank you, too. We've exhausted a list of registered agents to expose their clubs' position. Before I move to the debate on the points of the established agenda, if you allow me to say that this responsible reaction of the representatives and the Croatian Parliament to the elemental accident in Slavonia, seriousness and responsibility, solidarity of Croatian citizens and also representatives of the Croatian Parliament, honest intentions continue to require us to be creative, wisdom and responsibility, thoughtfulness so that we can find a solution that will bring the citizens back to normal within as soon as possible. Of course, we show our condolences to all who, whose members died in Croatia. We will give formal declaration or minutes of silence when data is definitely obtained about the injured in Croatia, and even when Croatia is ruling to give its assessment to neighbouring countries. Thank you for the discussion, I think it was constructive, well-measured, responsible, which requires a reaction of course to those who must now create solutions. We're moving on to a debate on the established agenda. It is now up to you: - Proposal for a Law on State Information Infrastructure, first reading, P.Z. No.653. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. Thank you very much. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply, those shall be the provisions of Articles 183 to 188. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. It's the Honorable Minister of Management Arsen Bauk. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78634	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have before you the first reading of the proposal of the Law on State Information Infrastructure as well as most of the laws that I represent to the Croatian Parliament. Public debate has been held, and you also have the results of consultation with the interested public and an explanation of whether or not to accept certain proposals in the public debate. As far as the law itself is concerned, I would like to point out, so public administration, its speed of response and mode of work are key factors that citizens and business entities are complaining about. The intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to regulate the area of electronic administration and to enable all those who have the right to have access to data collected by institutions in the public sector. As far as the availability of data is concerned, I think the new Law on the right to access information has already significantly improved the availability of data, and I think the Commission's 2013 report is on the agenda. At this point, there is no legally regulated area that would regulate access to the construction of the entire... state infrastructure. As individual institutions are developing in the real world in a way that acts independently as islands, information systems are developing in the same way. Today, integration into an entire system that can provide full services to citizens and business entities is done by those same citizens and business entities. They are the ones who transfer information or documents from the institution to the institution regardless of the entry... of the same. In this way, citizens and business entities are expected to know in the real world the cleavage of individual institutions, the address, the working time, the documentation they have to bring, that for each document that must take time. The whole process of citizens and business entities passes again for each document, which is transferred from one institution to another. The virtual world also builds services that citizens and business entities can use, but again on the same island principle, only now they have to know the part-round city of individual institutions, the virtual address of each institution and the documentation they have to ask for from someone else. It is evident that the whole process of resolving the demands of citizens and business entities and all of these takes a very long time. Standing in ranks, passing documents and long waiting to resolve requests directly or indirectly pay the economy. All this is done even though the State Administration System Act and the General Administrative Procedure Act stipulates that officials under official duty must obtain information on which national authorities already keep official records. Citizens and business entities do not need to know the sharing of responsibilities within the state authorities of public services and waste time investigating where individual requirements are being addressed but it is the state that has to provide them with the simplest way of access to services. It is achieved by a unique administrative place, either in real, or in the virtual world. For the realization of both types of a single administrative place, it is necessary to ensure that all data in the country are available at the point of contact with the parties and at the site of the resolution of the requests. How to identify and authenticate in the virtual world? How to ensure the safety of institutions that often contain very sensitive data according to the Data Protection Act will indeed be supplied to the data subject? To address these problems in the bill, a system of the central state portal, as a unique place in the virtual world, is defined as a national identification and authentication system as binding for all institutions, the communication of public sector institutions with citizens is prescribed through the country's user database. All of these create legal assumptions for the achievement of the e-Citizen project and ultimately for the construction of the elements of the Information Society in the Republic of Croatia and for the inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the construction of the European and global information society. Public and basic registers and authentic data shall be established, the obligation of the public sector institution to use data from the basic registers without the right to request such data from citizens or business entities. All of these will ensure the application of the principle only once and digitally as part of the administrative discharge of citizens and business entities and thus the precondition for the state's action without paper. There are no rules in Croatia at this time which determine the rights, obligations and responsibilities of public sector authorities relating to the establishment, development and management of state information infrastructure systems and which in a uniform way would regulate the establishment and management of public registers systems and the conditions that state information infrastructure must provide in relation to public registers. It is also not ensured to use a common basis for the secure exchange of data within a system of state information infrastructure, a common system of identification and authentication, a unique point of interaction with citizens and other users. Generally, because there was no obligation to connect public registers in the Republic of Croatia so far and there are no assumptions about the construction of an information society in the Republic of Croatia, citizens themselves had to come from public legal authorities and personally transfer documents from competent state institutions. The necessary resolution of this problem was identified by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which, through the Commission for the Coordination and Information of the Public Sector, reached a conclusion on 28 February 2013, which established the importance of the management and update of the basic registers and defined the basic registers as registers which have original data relating to legal and natural persons and data relating to space as well as the fact that they represent the property of the Republic of Croatia. The State Information Infrastructure Act creates preconditions for the conduct of state administration operations without paper, i.e. without the application of documents or documents by citizens in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act and of the State Administration System Act, and the assumption that civil servants themselves can quickly and effectively produce documents in the real virtual world in a way that citizens can exercise their rights in one place. The information provided by the public sector to users should be standardised and structured in the same way for all communication channels, counters, telephones, the Internet. In order for public service users to have the same service quality regardless of which communication channel they access, which means that information from a foreign public administration body must be prepared, published or downloaded by the user in accordance with agreed standards. The law provides support for the effective support of the Law on the State Administration System and the interconnection of all stakeholders in the work of the State Administration with public and regional self-government bodies, and in accordance with Article 66 of that Law, which determines the interrelationships between the authorities of the State Administration, i.e. the obligations of their mutual cooperation, the provision of expert assistance in their work, and the delivery of information to be kept by official eyewitnesses. It also respects the provisions of Article 67 of the same law which obliges the ministries, state offices, state administration organisations to ensure safe communication, transfer of information related to... laws and other regulations, giving expert opinions and explanations and maintaining expert consultations in the manner of law enforcement, etc., etc. This law lays down the conditions for effective implementation and the General Administrative Procedure Act, which defines relations between the State administration and the parties, with a view primarily to the speedier and more effective resolution of administrative proceedings, or any matter in which the public legal authority in the administrative procedure decides on the rights, obligations or legal interests of a natural or legal person or other parties. This law also creates a prerequisite for the implementation of Article 47(2). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The government of the Republic of Croatia firmly advocates and creates assumptions for the life of the vision of the modern public administration in terms of what the use of modern information communication technology is one of the fundamental means of achieving the main objectives of the efficiency of the state administration. These objectives relate to an intensive and effective transition, to a new generation of open, flexible, interactive administration system, to providing advanced services to the user through the use of modern technologies and related business systems at local, regional and national and European level. Adequate technologies implementing various strategies... The Republic of Croatia has requested that they focus on the services needed for citizens, and then also on the delivery of these services in the most efficient way. During the last quarter of the century, and given the existence of different institutions dealing with the collection of various types of authentic data independently of each other, there has been a duplication of systems and hardware. This resulted in the development of independent and unrelated silos that do not provide the necessary services to citizens, which will be resolved by passing laws, with the aim of creating an integrated ICT system that will provide citizens with services in a single administrative place in the real and virtual world and in the shortest possible time, and rationalising public expenditure and stimulating desirable social development. The application of the provisions of this law, when adopted, will speed up the achievement of objectives related to the development of the new public administration of the Government of the Republic of Croatia programmes, focusing on improving administrative and administrative capacity or how public administration policy is created. The public administration is one of the strategic important areas of the Republic of Croatia, and its modernisation, its full professionalisation and the provision of faster and reliable public services are part of the encouraging entrepreneurial environment and the assumption of ensuring a better standard for all citizens. A reliable, open, transparent and user-friendly administration is particularly important in view of the fact that the Republic of Croatia has become a full member of the EU. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have before you a bill in the first reading. We believe that we will be able to refer the final bill to the procedure until the end of this session of the Croatian Parliament, so that the law can begin as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78635	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the presidents of the committee's working bodies want to discuss it? Yeah. Honored representative Branko Vuksic, the Committee for Information, Information and Media, chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78636	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates. I will speak very briefly for a very short time on behalf of the board, just as much as to point out that the Committee unanimously supported the proposal for this law and that a little when the committee was expressed as much enthusiasm as for this proposal. And in particular, I must point out that all the speakers who participated in the debate very much praised the plastic presentation of this law, a credible, clear Mr. Darko Paric. There's only so much on behalf of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78637	Thank you very much. There are no others. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we go to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament normally. It is now the club of Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Branko Vukšić. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78638	Here's another one of my colleagues and colleagues. I shouldn't have said that as chairman of the board, but I can say as a representative, I'm simply sorry that Mr. Paric didn't explain the law, let the minister not be offended, because we have far more learned about it on the board and if I would support it if I were to debate on the basis of what Mr. Minister said very hard to admire this law. Let it be a criticism, ministers should trust their assistants. This is one of the most important laws on which they discuss at least in my opinion the modest and in the opinion of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party because it discusses how to solve those daily problems of Croatian citizens, and these are the problems when you come to the counter and you are sent from the counter to the counter, so for hours, days, so you stand in ranks. So we were already wondering if the ministers in the government had ever been standing on the counters in the previous governments, if they'd ever taken out any documents, if they'd ever met with those most ordinary meetings on the counters when they told you to come tomorrow or if we're working from 10 to 1, and you have to take a vacation to solve your case, so to get a permit, you have to take your vacation. So a good part of the free time and often working time, Croatian citizens spend in line for certificates, for documents, for permits, for beliefs. If you ask for one document or permission for this difficult mission, you need 2, 3 or dozens of other certificates, permits, beliefs, extracts. So you're looking for one document and then they send you to get three more documents to get that document. You don't need that document, you need administration, you need bureaucracy, you need that document, but you're the one who has to do the red tape. For each of those papers like I said just before you wait in line for hours. Sometimes you have to wait on the papers, wait for hours first to file an application to issue papers then wait for days to issue that paper. And when you're tired and nervous and collect a dozen papers to get one you're always missing one stamp or some signature and you're always back on some other counter and it seems like Kafka, it's a sizif's job. And what follows you? You need to get back in line. And that's how you've been standing in line your whole life. 247 thousand bureaucrats have come up with how to make life worse for all citizens and for themselves when they have to wait for some paper in order, how to justify themselves and how you want to collect it immediately. You know that, not only in Croatia, in many other countries, the biggest corruption is in these bureaucratic order. Under the table should be paid, especially before the papers were taken, when the grants were not arranged to get some excerpt you need to hurry it up and it's known that there are locals who rush it, from lawyers to officials. Many have acquired wealth that, clearly, we have said in other discussions should be taken away. The bureaucracy is there, therefore, to set the citizens' feet instead of standing at their service. And when you can finally stand in line for various certificates, permits, beliefs and documents, at which time you can do that, from 10 to 12 or at best 9 to 13 or 14 hours. Do you have any luck that you are employed to take out your ID card, passport, building license, housekeeper, confirmation of impunity, you need to take a day or more of your vacation. That's why a citizen has to wander from the counter, why does a citizen have to read from the counter to the counter? Why do we need a copy of the birth certificate for almost all documents despite having an I.D.? Why do I have to take out the housekeeper for almost all the documents if we can't get an I.D. and we've already taken out the I.D.? For one document we need to take out three others, but actually they don't need us as I said before, they need a clerk, they need a bureaucratic apparatus. And those clerks when you collect those papers I wonder what they do, often you are, you have that sticker back right now or you see them drinking coffee or manicating nails. That paper maze was built to be its purpose. And if it's a purpose to itself, then it's an enemy to the citizens. Why do we have to by no means know how many times in life to get confirmation that we were born? Why do we have to bring papers out of the birth certificate every time? I mean, nobody ever explained it to me because it says so in the laws. Why can't you take out a housewife in Zagreb if you were born in Kaštel Gomilica or in Međimurje Poturn? Why do you have to pull 100, 200 or 400 kilometers yourself? And for almost all the certificates, you have to pay a fee. But if it compares to lost time, the price of the tax is actually the cheapest. We have already listened several times, seen euphoric events about revolutionary public administration reforms and local self-government called all in one place. It was fraud against fraud. In one place is the only constant bureaucracy, all in one place, meaning red tape in that one place always and forever against the citizens. Or all in one place was the elite. In information time, Croatia continues to choke in papers. And the more bureaucracy there is, the more powerful and the poorer the citizens. Do you know how much the state spends sending letters to itself? 50 million kuna. 50 million kunas we could spend, give to the citizens now in this cataclysm to get them everything they need. We only spend because we send one piece of paper from one room to another room. It should be through the post office with the stamp, the signature. We act like drunk millionaires, simultaneously tightening our belts to those who are already conscious of tightness. And so from the 19th century, we should be rescued by the State Information Infrastructure Act, which should inaugurate state without paper and e-Citizens, finally. Finally, but I'll warn you, here on my right was Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, who also announced that from the new year, not the next one, but the last power in one day will be given a building permit, or not literally one day, 30 days when you put the papers on and when you get all the papers right away, ask people what happened to the building permits. Then I warned Madam Minister that I believed in her good intentions and her expertise but that there was one thing that was warned by the former First Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Cacic who said we lost the war against bureaucracy, that bureaucracy would cost that plan of hers and I was right, unfortunately. Citizens and companies are indignant at the speed, more precisely the interesting snail slowness and in the way the public administration works, which should finally be at the service of the citizens by applying this law. In what way? With the system of the central state portal as a unique administrative site in the virtual world and the identification and that word that I'm about to say, I don't know if the minister said it because he read it quickly, so I didn't, it's an authentication system. There is no such thing in the Croatian dictionary, you can't find it anywhere but we have it in Croatian law, so it is against the Croatian language, so it can be explained in detail and it would be much smarter if it were descriptive because we don't need to have one word for everyone. So far there has been no obligation to connect public registers in the Republic of Croatia and therefore there are no assumptions for the construction of an information society in the Republic of Croatia. So, of course, citizens themselves had to come up with documents from public authorities and personally transfer documents from the counter to the counter, from the room to the room, from the building to the building, from the city to the city. It was all done by citizens despite the bureaucrat army. This law will create, at least on paper, now it's on paper and we want to get rid of it by state administration without paper. Citizens will no longer need it when they ask for a document or permission to bring countless papers. In one place, only one click on a computer will often achieve its rights. It's a revolution. It's a revolution, here says the gentleman, yes, from the HDZ, that we won't be able to achieve it. How could this law really apply? When could you? They say at the Department of Administration two years after his adoption. What should be done in those two years and, indeed, by clicking on the computer, we can get the requested document, of course not all documents. There are some documents that need to pay a tax and will need to come to the office, but for most of the documents. For example, a copy of the book of birth, a cadastrian excerpt or a certificate of impunity needs the institutions of the state administration, and a regional and local self-government to connect it into a unique system which now seems to be an impossible mission. And in this assessment, the funds necessary for the implementation of this law are zero kunas, and that is zero lies, and that is a big lie. It needs money to implement the State Information Infrastructure Act if for no other reason, and what needs to be taught by the widest layer of citizenship is that instead of standing in line for a minute, a permit, a certificate or a document. And for that, education doesn't take zero kunas, but it takes a lot of kunas, but it's a little bit more about how much we spend on wasting time in counters now. Croatian Labourists – The Labour Party supports this law in first reading. We will continue to participate in the public debate and give some concrete objections to the law itself. And once again, I repeat that the ministry should do everything as well as we as the Parliament and as Government that this extremely good intention, this one would say the revolutionary law comes to life, let alone happiness in two years and we would start to apply it in practice. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia will certainly know how to reward it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78639	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. First responds Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78640	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, I'd like to ask you and all of us one question: who stopped the OIB? Because if you look at the OIB Act, if you look at its explanation, if you see what should be done with it, then this is just a small part of it. Therefore, an effective OIB was the information link between all authorities of the state administration and the central register with the precisely signed protocol signed by the Minister of Administration so that the data could be exchanged and used between the state administration. Not everyone can dig through everyone's data. So that's the key question. And if I were to back it up with something it would be good to see the moment the OIB began to implement what it had discovered between two important things, how much the difference between what was written in the queen and how much was the difference that was recorded in the MUP, and these data would have to be practically as if you had put the draft on the pause, each line must be a match. About 400,000 people weren't recorded anywhere. So, if we did this, what should we do more? If the Minister of Administration signed the data exchange protocol then it's very important, because not everyone can come to anyone's data and use it. But if you have a central register with a signature and protocol, you know exactly how to get to them. Why are you doing everything together now? To whom it is in the interest that the OIB is finally not functioning and that no blood count can be seen and that false moral size and everything else in Croatia are finally removed. This OIB is at the moment when many have realized what it brings and I personally have experienced great discomfort as a minister because it obviously does not fit someone, and today it does not fit for someone to function. The central register that needs to be in the IRS is the heart of this whole story that we're talking about, and the key to everything is the information link between all the authorities of the administration, then we can talk about both fair social policy and a series of other donations. And until we admit it to ourselves, until we let every state office do a little god thing of our own we'll have a situation like this. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] The OIB is a tool that was supposed to bring it all down together. Why doesn't anyone want to apply it? I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78641	Thank you. Answer, colleague Vuksic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78642	Dear fellow Shuker, you just said in your last sentence, you had as much inconvenience as I remember in my own lines when you insisted on the OIB. The OIB of many bothers, I agree with you, precisely because as you say it is a blood count you see when you see an OIB, you see a blood count of all of us especially bothers those who do not want the property picture seen in it. You said who stopped the OIB? The ones that can stop. Reuters can't, but I can stop the OIB. It is not to be known in Croatia that citizens, they do not want citizens to know too much, that citizens can get to the data they think elite or part of the elite should not. I hope that the Minister of Administration, Mr. Bauk, will answer why the OIB is not fully operational. The second thing you said, right. Without the information connection there's nothing, nothing's going to happen. Without the application of the OIB, nothing will happen, but let's trust that this law will actually be brought to life, that within two years all assumptions will be obtained, as the assistant minister told us that two years are for it if all the authorities of the state administration, local self-government cooperate. But if we're going to let every under quotes local sheriff, every sheriff in the ministry decide if he wants to. Because Mr. Pavic told us, but we can't force the ministry, I don't know the police or the ministry to know anything that or not gives. Well, we can make the Parliament, we in the Parliament can make it with the laws, with the provisions. That's why we need to talk about it. I mean, I believe in good intentions, and I believe that we are so mature that we will support it and we will insist that it be brought to life.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78643	Thank you. The next replica is Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78644	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vuksic, here's only one thought from the end of your presentation. So, I think by applying this law, not only will the budget be damaged, that the application of this law will cost, but even I think there can be significant savings. This law, by its purpose or by its nature, is actually preparing for many reforms. Take an example... or open codes where you can actually save considerable resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for your remarks regarding the work of the state administration, I would say, in our system of state administrations and units of local self-government, there are a large or large number of very hardworking and hardworking people working within the framework of the laws that have been passed in this House. So if they're looking for certain documents, then they're looking for them in accordance with the laws. In my day as a student, I applied for a student dormitory contest and it said in the contest that I had to bring two paint pictures as a personal card. When I brought in two black and white pictures of the officers, of course she wouldn't accept it. I asked her why, she says because she's not on the terms of the competition. I showed her the I.D. card that had black and white pictures because they were allowed at the time. I would like to say that this officer is not guilty of what is prescribed, so he is doing his job, and this law is actually an opportunity for many, that in fact no one is defending this burden from bureaucracy but that this burden from officials is primarily put on the organisation of work and what can be done with technology today, and we must admit that technology has gone far from the many systems that we serve and that in this way we can be quick and efficient and that officials can do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78645	Thank you, too. Answer, colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78646	Dear colleague Sagar, this is the ideal type of state you're talking about, ideal rule. If all officials and all bureaucrats were to uphold the law then this Croatian state would look quite different. I disagree with you, agreeing with you that there are valuable, honest, good officials and that the laws have complicated the lives of the citizens, and I agree with that as well. However, the state administration and local self-government are fine, you are witnessing these days what they are doing to prevent investment in Croatia. All of you, I'm talking about the whole machine, you need to know that with the world of bureaucracy governments and huge capital. I'm sorry! And no good clerks rule. And that is why he blames himself when it comes to Croatian opportunities for Croatian authorities, regardless of which party in power they allow bureaucrats not to comply with the law. I say most of them, these are the little things you asked, black-and-white photography or color photography. You have a problem when you try to extract some document, try asking on the counter to explain, try communicating with the counter officials. In 90% of the cases, I've encountered very poor behavior of officials, and I don't have that experience that you have. And I don't think it's the officers who let them do it. There are too many unemployed people in Croatia who are waiting for work and who would certainly do their job well. Let's not go into demagogy and talk now, although there was an opportunity before there was commendation on the account of those who are now doing well in floods, but that everyone in bureaucracy is good they can't agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78647	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78648	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You spoke about the bureaucratic environment, the difficulties, of course, and the frustrations that citizens face in these activities, but often also with other difficulties. Many also collapse waiting in those lines you were talking about, so if it hits that concrete down there, here's the cost and trouble, of course, for the one who gets that kind of injury. Here's colleague Boro confirming because he probably met himself. But there's one more moment that's pretty much gone, and often it's forgotten, and that's the material part. I'll tell you one moment from my surroundings. In the 6th month of last year, the Justice Minister's decision abolished the grantovnica in Djurđevec and three months ago it was decided to establish itself as a special land-booking department. And now all the honors of this e-informatic opportunity but for the document it makes, for a building permit, for the rest of it a citizen needs a document that he must attend at the garnery in Koprivnica. And now he has to take 45km that day and he still has to pay the administrative fee and everything he needs and now he has to go 45km in one direction, 45km back to pay the bus ticket and pay that fee. It costs 200 kuna and still has to find someone to feed his cow that day. So here's the cost and the trouble. God forbid this model comes to life, to get rid of it with one click, but in two years until it's solved, there won't be any cows holding them, none of them going to be, and to build something worse, there's no way. Here, that's the problem, too. And that should be emphasized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78649	Thank you. Answer, colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78650	Dear colleague Milinkovic will now be even less cows because Mr. Jakovina will kill these cows too, slaughter these cows, and send them to a slaughterhouse that was saved in floods. Which is one of the strangest statements and I hope someone will stop him from doing it. What you said in public service means on all counters, that's frakking. When you come to, say, any paper you wait for, you look at the lines in the municipalities, at the police, when you take out any confirmation, when you go for your ID card, when you go for your passport, what are the rows, and how fast you do it, how do people wait there for hours. And I was asked by a friend who's not from Croatia when I went to such a line he says well, so is anyone working in Croatia besides these people on the counter? All these people, they're not all unemployed. So it's an hour and an hour to wait. That's the most expensive. And then I agree with you that it's expensive to travel 40 km in one direction, 40 in the other direction and that there are still taxes to be paid, and for each paper you have to pay something and that simply what I was saying in my debate to the citizens we have done with the torment of extracting any paper. And I'm saying it's incomprehensible that every time you get a document, you have to get confirmation that you were born. I guess we should do it once in our lives, bring that confirmation, and you have an ID. I say, but I have my ID card, and without it, I couldn't get my I.D., they say it's the law. I agree. So let's break those laws. I remember, the former prime minister, what I like to say that looks at the world, has a scrawny look, he's with those scissors taking pictures, he'll cut it all off. What did they cut off? They cut only the people out of power.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78651	Thank you. Maria Lugaric's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78652	Dear colleague Vuksic, I agree with the great majority of your debate. I would only like to replicate that part at the end when you mentioned that a lot of resources would be needed to educate the citizens. In that part, I would neither overestimate the need for these funds nor underestimate what the citizens already know. Whether in their private lives they use such large systems, such as Internet banking, it makes each of us, they are therefore familiar with the way these things work, and in business with the state is the vast majority of them already tried it. We now spend the second year of our e-infections in high school, so it's a big one, so to say the population's talent already covered, it's been enrolled for years in colleges exclusively through electronic applications, so through one actually very similar system as this one is going to be through the E-Citizen system. So, that there will be some information campaigns, but I don't think it's necessary to overestimate the need for education itself, or underestimate what people already know. Finally, applicative solutions themselves are so user-friendly, user-friendly and adapted to humans, and it really does not require any higher specific information knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78653	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78654	Dear colleague Lugaric, what you just said, you are probably in the company of those who know it all. Now imagine the hardest it's gonna be, I agree with you, I didn't think it would take hundreds of millions here right now, but it's gonna have to educate people. First of all, not all informational writings, the other thing is going to be the poorest one who won't have those means that at all, if they can get a chance to click, they'll get something by clicking. Of course, they will still have to serve those conventional ways of getting their certificates, but you need to educate because when you say people know, remember only young people, and you know it a thousand times better than I do, because it's your profession, when we talk about how young people know. And we've always been drilling into our chests that we're a land of knowledge and that our children know far more than others know, and now we've faced reality, and we've seen that it's actually pure taps. We will need to spend resources on education and we will need to spend funds to merge into a single system. And for that, we need to anticipate some kind of budget funding. If we don't anticipate that in the budget, if we don't have that item in the budget for next year, that means we're not serious. We'll see about that by the end of the year, for next year. It means it's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78655	Thank you. And the last replica, Ivana Posavec the guilty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78656	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Vuksic, you've said a lot here on behalf of the club, but I have a few things left like this, it just rang the assembly. For example, you said 0 kuna is a lie, that the implementation of this law will cost 0 kuna. It's not, 0 kuna, you've already heard here that it's not a lie, but you've heard that our fellow citizens are significantly educated and that they know how to use information systems and it's our job to create tools that will simply be available to them. When we talk about what would be a lie, you mentioned here that it would be good to pay all the money we pay in taxes today, to travel to certain certificates, to direct to the injured areas of the Republic of Croatia, to the eastern Slavonia which has now died. But you forget to say that it is actually hypocritical and that 0 kuna is a lie, what you and your party Croatian Labour Party said a few days ago at the greatest moment of the tragedy, at the moment of the shooting of the embankment, that you will give up campaign funds. And it is precisely your campaign that costs most of all the EU elections here in Croatia, nearly $1200,000, which are official indicators. And when you spoke here about your pay phone, you hypocritically claim that your campaign stopped and that you are no longer in the media performances, and your candidates and candidates on paid radio and TV shows are a program for the European Union. So let's be worthy and be consistent, let's really be as you say to your conscience clean and see what a real lie is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78657	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78658	Ma'am, dear colleague Posavec the guilty, that 0 kuna is a lie, and what you've just said is also a lie. And you started beating under the belt, so I have to answer you the same way. All this is happening on TV, you know very well when, when you pay when you want to pay for commercials you have to pay for it, you have to pay in advance. So what's going on around here has been paid a long time ago. We're 50,000 kunas, now I have to say what it is, put down for the victims, what we were going to spend this week, we gave it up, we're off the streets and we're out of the campaign. What you have now said, in what way it is, the Croatian Labourists spent money, we are the only party that does it in a transparent way and reports every apple until the other parties do it. And many flyers they share, many printed materials don't report. We report every lip, and every time we're rated by all the audits that we're doing impeccable business. Therefore, if it is something hypocritical, it is hypocritical for you to put Croatian Labourists on their souls to throw money away, because it is well known how much money we have, how much money you have. So, and yes, I'm going to go back to the scale of things, which is this implementation of this law is not going to cost 0 kuna. The other thing is that citizens will save, but it has nothing to do with the implementation of this law because it will not finance citizens, it will end up taxing, but then it should be put here as much as it costs. 0 Kuna just means, we're not going to implement this law, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78659	Thank you. Minister Arsen Bauk called for the word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78660	Here, just a little bit. So, first of all, as regards the plastic representation of the law, I took this as a big commendation of the work of the board and in my four years as a representative, 2.5 years of the ministerial career, no one has ever given such commendation about the work of the board and I am sorry that only two committees discussed this law because it can stretch to the part-round of a larger number of boards in the Croatian Parliament, but maybe when it comes to second reading, it gets better. As for, at one point you said the number of 247 thousand bureaucrats, so 247 thousand state and public officials were involved both soldiers and police officers and doctors and professors and university professors, etc., etc. Otherwise, the number of people in the state administration, when all those in some kind of uniforms are turned down is smaller than the total number of employees in the 2 largest Zagreb hospitals, so somewhere around 10 thousand in all, somewhere, yes, in all ministries without police, military, customs, tax, so those who say that, what could be called in a much wider and slightly different interpretation as you said. As for the housekeeper and the birth certificate, it can now be obtained in any place, so the prerequisite was the merger of the bases, we did so, even after the decision of the last government in 2009, we spent it until the end, and at this point a copy of the queen born and the housekeeper can therefore be obtained in any part, regardless. In the end, both for these elections and for all other elections and referendums, you can report in any office that leads to a list of voters that you want to vote elsewhere, before you have to go to yours, where you are registered, therefore there is even some possible without paper, therefore a scanned request that can be removed from the internet and a scanned ID card is enough for the officials to conduct the enrollment. So there's already something to do about it. As for the replica Mr. Shucker said, therefore, the OIB is the foundation of this, without the OIB there's nothing there. So, we, the foundation and we, let's say, here I will present one information for implementation, for updating the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities and for a report by the Ombudsman, each year a report on the number of members of the national minorities employed in the state administration is given. How we managed to register the voters of consciousness, so in one base which is the basis of the OIB, is, is, the basis of the OIB, and each voter has a written nationality due to the conduct of elections, minority and those in a special constituency. And on the other hand, we have a register of employees in the public sector where the OIB data is also, by simply paralysing those two systems we can get information about how many members of a minority are employed in any body of the state administration. On my direct question to the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, if we can use data from voters' register to transfer it to this second register, they said "you can't" because there are no collected data under the Personal Data Protection Act in the same way, therefore it is theoretically possible that in the 2 registers run by the state for the same person there are 2 different data. What did we do? We were simply statistical, so we looked at the number, did the data because we still couldn't transfer data from one register to another, and now we're trying to solve it. Of course, we meet daily with cases where one state body does not give information to another state body. In the Tax Administration Act, it seems to me that there is an obligation to exchange such data and there is an improved state, not yet how it should be, I believe there are more jobs to fix it, but the fact is that the OIB as something to be taught, before I went to school, was taught in the 1st grade, which is the primary key of the database, and now it's probably learning, I hope, in elementary school, so the OIB is this unique identifier that in all state bases is equal to all if it's the same person, so in that sense, the OIB system, at least in this part of life, and of course still has a chance to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78661	Thank you, Minister. We have two replicas. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78662	Dear Minister Bauk, I hope it's not a reaction to your speech because your SDP agents are missing. This was also a commendation to the ministry, when I spoke, it was a commendation to the ministry, therefore the commendation should be made when you think something is good, should be publicly commended. This 267 grand is a lapus, so I know it's 247 grand, there's no one who works on counters, which are classic, in the classical sense of bureaucrats. The shifts are visible, but we tend to probably, I just said that this law promises, that if this law is to be implemented that finally the citizens will take a breath and that the citizens will be satisfied and that they will be able to reward what they are doing today, these efforts. And even we on the board were saying that maybe you should cut the deadlines, say for the first time that we're sorry that it wasn't an emergency procedure, and that was heard on the board, but we said, well, let's not be too euphoric, let's give all the services of preparation, to all the ministries, to connect, etc. So, absolute support for what you're doing, we're just being skeptical because we know that you might be... not because you wouldn't want to, but because there's no money, and the other thing is, it's still very strong bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78663	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78664	There's an English series called "Yes, Ministers", that is, the second season was "Yes, Prime Minister", which is actually one satirical way of describing what you're saying, bureaucracy and how what you say is, bureaucracy resists change, regardless of how any political option, so they change worse, and there's always someone who's always, who's some constant in every state body. Yes, we are aware that this can be determined, how it used to be spoken subjective, not objective, but subjective weaknesses in implementation, and it is up to us to know that we are aware of that as little as possible and to prevent it. And secondly, as far as the deadline is concerned, well, that's when we put two years or two, that doesn't mean that it can be done in 4 months, probably objectively, and what can be done before will be done sooner. It seems to me that the next month will be to get an electronic copy of the birth certificate from the web. I still have two things I forgot to say on your basic exposure, one in the law says it won't be necessary to provide additional funds in the state budget, not that it'll cost zero kuna, which means that from... what is now spent on something else will be spent on implementing this law. And as for the word authentication, I put it in Google and looked at exactly what that means. So there's this word in the information dictionary, so it's a professional term that's good to get into the law, but here if there's a different linguistic expression, then we'll fix it until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78665	Thank you. Next replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78666	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you said it was all based on the OIB, if the OIB was designed as a unique identifier. But the key story is what no one wants is what we who created this system and thought. So with the central register that makes any exchange of this data, this bureaucratic obstacle that you've just said can't happen. You said only one segment, such bureaucratic obstacles today in Croatia Croatian entrepreneurs and citizens have thousands. So that's why it was supposed to be a central register, you as a management minister should change certain laws about that data exchange and whoever needs that information goes through the central register, it's not in this law, it goes through the central register according to the precise protocol for the reason that no abuse of any data can happen. So whoever needs it gets it for what needs to be done administratively and implemented. And that was the whole point of the story. And most of the practical administration was connected. What's cancer-random I don't know at all what stage it's in today's garret. So I will here for the sake of the Croatian public say that the moment we set out to publish the OIB was our former JMBG, is that it was the only basis to make it quality. What did we find then? That only 5% of the owners of real estate in the Republic of Croatia were seduced by JMBG who had not been in force for 7 years at the time. It's a fact, it's true. What I said... the data between the M.O.P. and the parent offices is that 450 thousand people under the age of 16 who didn't need any data in the M.P. and were recorded as being born but were not registered in the M.P. So I can count it now, and you have a 20-page section at the Ministry of Finance that defined it. And I don't understand why we're not going towards that central registry to finally end this trauma with the fact that the garter is unfortunately not going to be in it for a few more years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78667	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78668	Yeah, so I don't know about others, but I'm pretty clear what you said, so what you meant when the OIB was established because the OIB as well as JMBG but in a different format, this one has 14 numbers, this one has 11 numbers and gave birth dates and some as it was made, so sex is also the place of enrolment, but it seems to me too, but it's either engineering or mathematically viewed one of those same things. So it's some unique indicator that only applies to one person. So there aren't two people with the same OIB and there's not one person who has two OIBs. So it's an injective imaging one to one that now a little bit of the first year of college to remember a little bit of mathematics. So in that sense, I'm perfectly clear on the intention and I'm quite clear that what you said happened was because we knew that there were some records, and when three officers work, three records if each one works in its own way and it's only important to him that the data that serves him for his daily work will come to that. I saw your statement somewhere about the employee register, so in 2011, one ad hoc action was posted all the data, all the data were, say, 4th month 2011 or 6, but the person who was working on that update no longer used that register for anything, like some lady or gentleman at school, she didn't post any new data after three months and we had old data in three months. I agree. What should still be said is that the data in the register are exchanged through infrastructure not through registers. So it's important for us to have something that we can connect two registers, it's logically viewed by the OIB and based on that all the data... Yes, but now the engineering question is what is the central register now not to discuss. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I think that we only fully agree with different languages because of different professions and different experiences and different experiences in the work, so don't be afraid everything will be okay in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78669	Minister's time, there'll be an opportunity. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of SDP representative club Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78670	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will be pleased to support this bill and we are assessing one of the important reform laws that we are going to pass during this term, especially happy to see that this may also be a consensus. What is this attitude based on? One of the major or more frequent complaints from our citizens and businesses is the slowness of the state administration and the daily frustration of many by spending too much time waiting in line in front of the counters of some of the state or public institutions in order to extract a document that, after some new lines and some new counters, some of the basic documents which, for example, later prove their identity to some third state bodies. An example of a problem, or procedure faced by perhaps one of the larger ones, and almost all families have a problem with it is an example of the birth of a child. This experience is particularly traumatic in major cities, and it is full of Internet articles of titles that all documents must be obtained by the newborn with a mandatory subtitle in the scales of bureaucracy and by means of general bold instructions, armed with patience. So how do bureaucratic plows look and what kind of patience does this take from the context of passing this law? First, parents need to know, or know, everything they need to do where there are institutions in which they need to do something, what they need to look for, or end up there, and what they should do with the documents they have come up with. Short it looks like this. Before giving birth to a mother, it is wise to reduce the effort to prepare documents such as a marriage certificate, birth certificate and evidence of citizenship, it is smart and photocopy in several copies because, of course, you must leave some copies everywhere. After the birth of a child within 30 days, both parents need to find someone who will take care of such a small child, take it on an annual basis because the institution’s working hours overlaps with your working hours and go to the home office, enroll the child in the womb of the born. There parents should attach a copy of the marriage certificate or marriage certificate. And that note. So, this extract from the queen's wedding or marriage certificate just issued that same or some other home office you're in right now, and evidence of Croatian citizenship as a identity card. And by the way, you should have given that proof of citizenship when you were getting married, that is, to get that marriage certificate that's in that same room that you're looking for this other document at all. It is similar in some other cases, but in short, so you brought in the home office paper issued to you by the home office and another paper based on which you received the first piece of paper in the first place. The parent enrolls the child in the womb of the born, betrays the parents of the housekeeper, the child gets an OIB. Now that's smart right now and photocopy 'cause you're gonna need the documents later. You spent at best here as a parent for at least an hour and a few dozen kuna marks. But that's not all because getting a housekeeper and a birth certificate in a police facility where you belong, you have to report your child’s residence and you get the child’s home number of citizens. In the police to register the residence you need to attach the original from the birth certificate, the source of the housekeeper, those are the documents you just removed in another state institution, the parents' ID card and another form. The point is, of course, that the home offices and the police are connected by an information system that we are trying to resolve by this law, and you should not or should not be carrying the papers. The child should apply for basic health compulsory health insurance because the first paediatric review follows very quickly and for this application you need to do so independently if you do so as a parent in person or for you it is the employer of copies of the birth certificate, housekeepers, residence applications, OIB, JMBG child and the presentation of a parent's health card through which the child will be provided. So, all that we took out of the mother and the police now needs to be taken to HZZO plus a copy of the card issued by that same HZZO. Do you see a pattern? Of course you can see a pattern. A lot of hours of walking around town, a few dozen kuna marks and all you do is carry papers from one state institution to another and not just any other state institution, but the papers issued by that same state. So the state asks citizens to bring her the papers issued by that same state, a little bizarre, don't you think? Similarly, if not worse bureaucratic horrors are experienced by entrepreneurs based on the same principle, wait for state papers to be taken to another state institution so that the state institution can issue some paper that is needed for something third state institution. Why did I bring all this up, maybe in detail? Because such a practice that citizens are paper suppliers within the system of state administration should actually be done by adopting, or by full application of this law. This law establishes state information infrastructure, public registers, data exchange, identification and authentication systems, and points of interaction with citizens and other users. Regarding the previous debate with replicas that, nominally, things might work better for us, the law shouldn't, but some experiences teach that sometimes protocols aren't enough, but that it is necessary to literally write a law and force some institutions and some people to cooperate. With all these but other professional and technical expressions in the law itself, there's actually a simple story. List all databases that connect on citizens and other entities, and connect the database and enable easy and quick use of the data. In particular, in that case, after the child's birth to the police, you should not wear the papers that you received from the matriarchs because the police will be able to see for themselves or have an authorisation on that part of the queen. In some advanced application, you could do it all by applying a system of e-citizens that is also established by this law and do it yourself from your home without any walking or wasting time. Today, most of the bases are digitized, or are electronic, there is already a lot of e-service provided or provided by the state, children are enrolled in high school and colleges by electronic enrolment, e-building has been established, we have heard that there is, therefore, that we are still waiting for full application. The e-workbook is quite an interesting case because it showed and I personally took part in it how many months it actually takes for two state institutions to force them to exchange data and therefore it needs law. Now it's really necessary to connect all these bases and spare all the time and money and the state and people that we understand each other. In order to achieve this, the principles of development of state infrastructure information are defined among other things. It is precisely the availability of data from public registers, uniform management, interoperability, scalability and data rationalisation that is the most important principle for us in the SDP. There, Mr. Minister, would actually not be a bad add, so we suggest that we add this as a principle for a second question and a principle of multi-formation although it is partly covered by these other principles but because of some experiences we smoke on cold and it is important to ensure that it does not happen, for example, that as we now have an e-tax case that can only be used from one, the only Internet browser in two seems to me or three versions. The law also defines the basic concepts well, and there is a special commendation to the promoter which nevertheless found a way i.e. the formats in which the definitions are referred, however, in a comprehensible language but without compromising professional terms and definitions. Definitions are clear let me say so as well as to me as an unprofessional woman in this area, and then it's always a good principle of law writing. We have as a SDP club a proposal that we would like the applicant to consider until the second reading, namely, it is logical and fully expected that this law applies to state administration bodies and other state bodies which are also further clearly listed and defined in the draft law and public service. This bill defines public services as public institutions and other legal persons who are provided with payment funds in the state budget, this is a shortened definition, something more detailed in the law itself. And we understand the reasons why local and regional self-government are not involved at the moment, but we propose that the definition be extended to both those institutions and other legal entities, which are based on specific laws of the powers given to carry out tasks, certain tasks as public authority. Simplified to extend the application of this law to all those entrusted by the state to do some in its name, so to speak state business. I mean, for example, children's kindergartens that are the founders of locals, wages are local. It would be convenient to have electronic data exchanges and that parents simply do not have to walk around. Or, for example, HAK, which is an NGO of citizens who conducts as a public authority driver's test, so that when issuing a driver's license, they do not have to carry a certificate of examination. There are many other examples, but I hope this is enough to actually understand what we want to suggest. We have already applied this principle through some laws, so high schools and those who are private and those who are public need to enter a special database to enter data on issued diplomas because it is an activity that they are doing as public authority, and then it actually allows the system of e-workbooks and citizens no longer have to carry diplomas in order to get a work book but after a lot of trouble I have to admit two institutions, one public, one state or private and state data actually exchange. Furthermore, although the shortest seems to be one of the most important and Article 3 which defines that public registers are the property of the Republic of Croatia. Even though it is immutable, we do not consider it a regular provision to be complemented in such a way as to define that not only are public registers, but also data in these public registers of property of the Republic of Croatia. In this case, we may really smoke in cold, but for me personally and I believe for many of you it was quite shocking to know that some of the important databases such as the list of voters in general or in part in private legal persons or that in some cases, such as e-matrix in school, were rather unclear what the state actually bought or paid to a private company, or what could happen to the data in the event of termination of contractual relations. The application of this law in technical and organisational terms has a lot to say about background work, but it also has a visible manifestation for all through the system of e-citizens. It is a system which is part of the information infrastructure and which is actually a central place for the communication of the state with citizens through a system of personal user compartments. I'm colleagues and colleagues when I was preparing to discuss this law I went to the assistant to see what that system looks like, which, while we still don't have the law in the developmental close-up phase, I have to tell you that from the citizen's position it looks really good and promising. It wouldn't be bad, Mr. Minister, if we were to be presented here for a second reading. And it actually looks like an e-mail box in which you get notifications from the state, but also a portal through which you can request the release of documents or different actually after which you have with the state to do. So, in addition to the law, we allow the communication of state bodies to be made available to each other in one place to communicate citizens with different authorities of the state administration. Happy and that the mobile application is in the plan, and that we as citizens will soon be able to communicate with the state in the same way that we are already used, for example, to communicate with banks where I personally believe and the vast majority of you almost all transactions and payment accounts actually work not over computers but literally via cell phones. The law also provides for the adoption of two regulations which need to prescribe technical solutions, and it is good that it has not burdened the law with this because of technical specifications that are not really a place of law, which is due to good anti-cipulation of the fact that technology is changing rapidly, and that sufficient rapid application or adaptation of technical provisions should be ensured. In this regard, we estimate that the existing level of specification and principles is from technical to security, we have talked about it somewhat less so far, but it is quite well done in law. Therefore, the law defines it at optimal level and should not be extended. As it is our assessment of the really important law, we also propose to supplement Article 19 of this Law, and that the annual report on the implementation of the law is delivered to the Government and the parent board of the Croatian Information Assembly in order to monitor the implementation of the law, in fact, giving visibility in some way to all these numerous processes that will be based on this law in the background. And at the very end, I think this is one of the shorter laws we discuss or discussed in the Croatian Parliament. The full law, including transitional and final provisions, has only 23 articles, but I think the reach and importance of this law is precisely dramatic and vice-proportional to its size. We can almost say that it is a small law for a major change, a major change in the way the state bodies function, the way they interact, the way business processes take place, the big change in how the state administration actually works, and the big change in how the state works with citizens. It will all be the last but not least important to bring savings to both the state and the citizens, but also to increase transparency, reliability and openness of the state administration. And I'm a citizen, and I hope that as a citizen, we hope that when the law comes to life that we won't have to do it again before we engage in the adventure of issuing a ID card, we first carefully study the scheme of steps during the issue of a personal ID. Namely, it exists on the web pages of the police administration. So, a schematic of steps. It's great that the police did, but it's tragic that we had to draw a scheme for people to actually figure out what to do for one basic document, and we're not actually going to wait at the aunt's desk for six more to get it to another lady on the counter ten down the hall, but we're actually just going to order through the central state portal a certain document without walking, without waiting in lines and without wasting time. Because it's not about the aunt on the counter six or the aunt on the counter ten, but it's about a system that may have been good for the 19th century in terms of the administration, it's already been asked for the 20th century, and for the 21st century it's certainly not appropriate. In that sense, once again, our true support for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78671	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HNS club Goran Beus Richemergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78672	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I would say on behalf of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats, first... Finally, we are able to discuss an extremely important subject that can, regardless of what Lugarić said and at first glance, at the length of the text of this law, seem to be a small legal text to you but can definitely cause tectonic disorders throughout the system as well as ways of thinking about the state administration, especially bureaucracy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is potentially one of the most important laws that we will ever pass in this term, provided, of course, that there is capacity and will in the state administration that it is fully applied. It's actually about one new step in marking e-Croatia. Only once of the steps that will allow them to be systematized, treated differently and certainly in a simpler way use a number of data from the registers that exist. For some of them, it is even questionable whether they should exist at all. But, as the nature of bureaucracy is to be its own purpose, so is the nature of many registers that exist for unknown reasons to produce actually new procedures and new procedures. It is very important that this law introduces simplification, which places order and responsibility for all those who are intended to have access to information, data in registers. It consequently narrows down corruption, which is extremely important. Because when someone walks you and every time they bring you back with more information that you forgot, or what you're not told then they actually send you a clear message that you should do something past the procedure to speed up the procedure. A special website has recently been launched, called absurdistan.it on the initiative of a famous young Croatian entrepreneur on which interested citizens leave their contributions in which they actually explain or comment on the existing practice of our bureaucracy of illogical procedures and daily problems in practice which they have both as citizens and as entrepreneurs. I would advise every minister in the Croatian government to go to that site and read some of these comments, i.e. written experiences of citizens. There's a lot of very life situations out there that are actually pointless. It's amazing, as someone has already said, that you have to prove every once in a while that you're born and that the evidence can't be more than six months old. The peak of absurdity was the situation that did not concern the state administration when citizens over 65 years of age were required to obtain public transport privileges each year to confirm that they were over 65 years old even though so far in the history of humanity no one was reported to have been younger than this year. Furthermore, we see through concrete examples that something we have already installed in the system and what should have been done actually stands unused and has not been revived, and that is the question of the OIB. Because how is it possible, for example, to apply to the first real estate tax, you have to bring in a completed form, a belief issued in the grantovnica, so to the department of the municipal court, about the lack of other property, the belief of the residence issued to you by the competent police administration and the birth certificate issued to you by the competent home office of the administration. So what's the OIB for anyway, what's the I.D. for anyway? If you have to visit three institutions to go to the IRS. Or, for example, you have a case where a newborn child is enrolled. So first, a birth registration is made, and then a special application should be made to issue a housekeeper, even though it is the same service but in two different rooms. And then when you do this first, you go in second and then they tell you listen you'll have to come in two or three days because a colleague from that room hasn't delivered the file to ours yet. So when you say forgive me, and if I can go get the file and bring it to you then they tell you no, I'm sorry it goes through protocol, it has to go through the manual logs. So, no connection. They're just ridiculous situations that ultimately have damage to the citizens, to the state budget, so if you want to do so for the pension system. Well, it wasn't that long ago maybe a month ago when the audit was carried out after it was found that many pensioners had no OIBs, or did not report them. You don't know what's worse, or that they don't have them or that they had to report them at all, that the system doesn't even recognize itself whether someone has an OIB or not. And after that, it is found that a certain number of citizens, and a large number of citizens, are no longer alive. So neither the queens are connected to see that someone is no longer alive. But then their heirs have been taking their pensions for years by misusing the system's impasse. I remember a case that's paradigmtic, and it was written in the nomenclature of countries run by the Ministry of the Interior that both Latvia and Latvia exist. I was able to pray for visas to the citizens of the Baltic countries who came to an international conference upon arrival at Zagreb airport. And we supplied the list neatly so that it would turn out that colleagues from Latvia couldn't cross the border, because we wrote the obvious wrong name of the country. And then I was taught that there are four Baltic countries: Lithuania, Latvia, Latvia and Estonia. In any case, the Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats welcomes every effort to actually oppose the nature of bureaucracy as it is, which is to be its own purpose and to make it as complicated as possible for procedures to create an impression of their own importance. If the Law on State Information Infrastructure after the second reading takes place in a hasty implementation, we really have a chance to fix standards, narrow the area of corruption, nerada, and allow citizens to spend less time and their own resources on something called bureaucratic procedures. To enable them to exercise their rights in a simple and quick way, first of all, because this is about facilitating the way citizens' rights are exercised. We definitely estimate that it is a good thing that the promoter had a very serious public debate with the interested public, because, as you know, the material itself is very thick, regardless of how many articles of this law we have, it is actually a very high-quality proposal for remarks that have arrived in the previous debate, and it is from very measuring commentators. Then, of course, prepare this text after our discussion of the second reading, and we hope that this law will come before this home again as soon as possible and as soon as possible. We from the Croatian People's Party Club of Liberal Democrats welcome Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78673	Thank you, too. We have one replica. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78674	Thank you very much. Comrade Beus, you have well identified some points in the work of the administration, as you say and bureaucracy, and set several examples. Well, here's to it, it may not be the best example, but here I have even recorded on my cell phone one door in our bureaucratic, the door on which is one notice, says, "To pay a payment at the amount of 1 kuna in the post office. You get a payment on the gate." So, on the port of that facility you take the payments and then you go to the post office to pay 1 kuna, only 1 kuna for whose postage, postage for 1 kuna, more than I amounted to 1 kuna, and then you go back to that facility to prove that you paid that 1 kuna. I mean, really catastrophic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78675	Thank you, too. The answer of my colleague, Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78676	There are examples like this in our absurdist, as many as you like. Let's say that someone in the VAT system is paid 40 kuna, writing that certificate takes 5 minutes, but the other person has to sign it and it needs to be printed mostly. Equally not for God to tell you, you're buying a car from someone, and that someone to lose a book, a traffic book that is no longer mandatory, can't be executed by a purchase contract because the former owner must first ask the police to issue a copy to him, which he must then hand over to the same teams in order to destroy it and only then can such a purchase contract be signed. So, the example is as many as we want. What is the sole objection to this law is conditionally said that it is going to dictate everything that exists as an anomaly in an existing system in the state administration. He doesn't get local self-government procedures. And I hope that there will be a view based on which to be able to access and simplify, i.e. a completely new regulation of procedures in local self-government. 'Cause when he knows it's even worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78677	Thank you. On behalf of HDZ Representatives Davorin Mlakar and Davor Bozinovic, they shared the debate. Here's your colleague, Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78678	You can call us Duo Hani. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, here I will begin perhaps unusually, I would like to commend something in the work of this government, which is the fact that in the department of the Ministry of Administration they installed at the beginning of their term of office and in matters concerning the information connection between all the authorities of the state administration or what was once the jurisdiction of the central State Office for e-Croatia. And I think that was a good solution. Here, a little less than 3 years of the government's term of office, this procedure in the ministry's department has resulted in one law that today may have, with all these events that have pressed us, been deplaced, but since you've established such a agenda, I think we have to. I don't know if Mr. Beus will continue or can I? What we believe is important to say on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, we think that information infrastructure must be regulated in an adequate way. We also consider that law can be passed, but we think that the solution you have offered is not a good solution. This is what the ministry has offered to the greatest extent has no legal text characteristics at all but a small strategy for the development of information infrastructure. The first thing that colleagues were already talking about, although most of their presentations wanted to illustrate to the most frequently wrong data from practice, some of it was true, and what would change this law, we believe it is not. But the objection is certainly to the fact that it was introduced in the very introduction and the justification of the law that no additional means needed to implement this law in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. This means everything we have, it's all covered by existing funds in the budget, maybe next year it'll get more funding in the budget, but we keep it so irresponsible to write that no additional resources are needed is not real or true. Secondly, this strategy, which has been turned into a law, suffers from some object of principle. The purpose is, it is said, to make it easier for people to access the state administration body, that is, to facilitate the exercise of rights in business, not only of state but also of public administration bodies if we have translated the intensity of this law well. And it's an interesting standard for this government to work here to make it easier for people to work with public authorities. At the same time, the same government has imposed a commitment through this same ministry that all voters who are not resident in the Republic of Croatia, who want to participate in the elections, must register before any election to do so, their will to participate in the elections, should be registered before the competent authorities. There you didn't worry about how much you're actually making life complicated or even making it impossible for the constitutional rights of citizens because at that point you probably weren't so politically interested in it. What I think is important to say about our seeing this law, is that it also has technical problems, a brief example that would show all the vainness of this text is the fact that the state passed the e-signature law in 2001, of which it has no use to this day, so it seems to be fate and this law. Secondly, that a special project has done digitization of grantshops, land books, but that the data that you can get through the Internet about the state of the land books is not data that you can achieve any of your rights because these data are not verified. It therefore tells that you will come before the body of public or state administration and that officials will be able to withdraw data from the records of which some other bodies are kept by data, it is simply not true. It's funny because you can't pull one single piece of information from the grantshop, and then it's multiplying on this problem of all investors, of all investments, from small to the most significant ones you've ever talked about. Secondly, you can see from the work of the central government of what you really want with this law. That body, in fact, forgive me, does almost nothing. Namely, don't do anything concrete. This body shall collect and analyse, coordinate, plan development, issue of approval, cooperate on projects, monitor implementation, implement, intervene in cases of possible disputes, establish measures, prepare annual reports for the Government and verify compliance of the legal basis and data access requirements, so, to say the least, everything we say is a problem in the state administration, that it is massive, that it does not work effectively and specifically, you repeat in this law. Finally, in Article 22, since I have no more time, public sector bodies are obliged to enter all projects completed five years after the establishment of the register, or all projects already in office regardless of the time of implementation, it seems to me... an idea and I am convinced that such a thing cannot be regulated. In addition, I am merely referring to the incorrect provisions of this law, one of them is public registers in Article 15, they are abolished by the law they are set up, it would really be better if you hadn't written at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78679	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, here, after such a precise legal analysis, I would like to point out that there are certain illogicalities in the text itself, I would rather turn my exposure to what has been heard so far because I think that because of the public and also because of us here some tones, however positive they are in the debate, are actually not very well founded in reality, especially in reality in this area that is valid outside the Republic of Croatia. What am I talking about? Of course, the importance of new technologies, their application in practice is something that is in itself, not positively, but necessary, but we are talking about solutions that have been applied in the developed part of the world for more than 2 decades and that have been in practice throughout a number of countries. Someone mentioned Kafka here, describing bureaucracy, especially red tape in Croatia, I would say that in real life today, there is no more than literature in Western Europe or in northern Europe. We are talking about the fact that the EU is already on the verge of entering the Digital Single Market. For a series of historical reasons, we were unable to join before the single European market which formally entered in 1992. I'm not sure at what speed we're planning to join and join those more advanced in Europe because you have countries that are in this sense starting up countries like Estonia, you have countries that follow that, and you have countries that are trying to make sense that they're onto these solutions, and they don't actually do concrete things. What's this about? For example, this is a global issue raised by G8 that has brought a whole series of recommendations, but concrete recommendations through the Open Data Charter, which has a whole series of 15 priority areas. Each state has been invited to make an individual action plan. If you're looking at what the UK is doing in this area, it's within two years there are about 50 concrete tasks with performers and deadlines and expenses. We do not see a strategic approach from this proposal of the law, so this is one episode in the reform of the state administration in a series that we do not yet know the name, and that is very important, in order to be able to monitor how this process goes and ultimately to open it to the public because this must not be and not even in this original part of the elitist project, it must be communicated to the public, so the public must be educated, and not limited to that part of the public currently using the Internet, which is below the European average. So we also need to know at this point what, how and at what speed we want to reach because of the condition for one of the basic conditions for Croatia to go economically. Because unless you are tied to a single digital market tomorrow if a foreign investor, any business entity is unable to obtain information from its office about what he is interested in in Croatia, we will hardly be competitive. So this is one strategic innovation but it's not shown in a way that we can monitor its realization. In addition, it is envisaged that progress of the government report is not a Parliament which is not a contribution to transparency, and it is the Parliament that should adopt an open data strategy for Croatia. Besides, in a technological sense, I don't know how much we used the best resources. You know, otherwise this story started in '92. Al Gore Vice-President of the United States and with him were sitting and giving him support above all professional professors of information science from the University of California. In our commission, I see they're all civil servants. I don't see how much the participation of science, the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, organizational sciences and so on. It's a resource that we cannot give up and not involve it in this process. Protecting is a special issue because protecting is something cybersecurity is something that's being talked about all over the world today. And even in this committee of yours, there are no representatives from two ministries, which are the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who are the only ones on behalf of the state participating in meetings where cyber-data protection is being discussed. Well, of course, when we don't have a round story, when we still don't know where we're going. So solutions exist. Mrs. Lugaric spoke of problems when a child is born, etc. I'll tell you, ma'am, at the moment when a child is born in Estonia, it's not only registered everywhere but also a health care officer. If you report a tax return there today, it'll come to your account tomorrow. More than 2,000 citizens' services in developed countries, especially in the north, are being achieved through the platform called, for example, in Estonia, x-route. It is so good that the EU has accepted it as a basis for its EU x-route platform. Today, a Finland that is much more advanced in information, let's say, is actively following that platform in a way that it can be used for its own needs, to take over and even some countries in the region have received and sought that platform to install it in their digital administration reform. So what I was going to say is, if the law as a law means nothing, especially this sign in the text that no additional funding would be necessary, I was disappointed. For eHealth alone in Finland, 10m euros have been spent, of which 3m euros are European funds. This and this part of European co-financing, and Europe stands out big funds. So no homework, no carrier, no deadline, no funding, this is just going to be a letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78680	Thank you. We're moving on to the replicas of our fellow Mlakar. Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78681	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Mlakar, here I will look back at your debate and indeed when you were talking about bureaucracy that it is glamorous, slow, expensive and illogical, it is. It's from a long time ago, so it could be said there's also a vampire person. But this government gave her a really good shot of fresh blood, she doubled her octopus, so surely for one thing, she doubled twice, so this body that you were talking about doesn't seem to be doing anything seems to pay her off a little bit more. For all of that, Shucker's OIB would be a smoothie. But who's it worth it to? You were saying that it's impossible not to cost anything. Well, it's possible because it won't or will not be settled in the term of office of this government. So let something be written, rather than something we're discussing today, no matter what we've discussed ourselves, there are certainly dozens of laws that we should have here today that would help this people live better in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78682	Thank you. Come in, Mr. Mlakar. Come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78683	Dear fellow Sumrak, I did not say that the globular administration of the dispute and ineffective, I was talking about what all political options say what administration would like to have and not have. So our government, the government at the time, the coalition government at the time when HDZ led it was practically bombed daily by the interest of the Croatian public about how many states and how many civil servants we have and constantly complained that the government would not come out with concrete data. At the time of the government's handover, so 2.5 years ago, we handed over a software solution with a program that was then conducted by FIN, which was completed for 200 grand by state officials, made by public officials. To date, this government has not yet given a concrete number of state and public officials, and you can best see from the fact that the tools they have already taken over should have been used in this payout programme, so the salaries of the entire society financed from the state budget. As far as we're concerned, they've managed to solve it for 50 thousand people, and there's still nothing left in any airlock. And now the question is after 2.5 years, we're going with some further solutions and we haven't been able to solve what we got. It remains only a question of what fellow Shucker has asked whether it is someone's interest that the public does not know or that it is indeed incompetence of this government that even a finished solution cannot be applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78684	Thank you. Next replica Frano Matušić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78685	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is a colleague, Mlakar and his colleague Bozinovic, who was great at cutting down this bill so that there was nothing left but agreeing to their conclusion that it was a dead letter on paper. But I would refer to that part of Mr. Mlakar's speech when he spoke about the inequality of Croatian citizens before the Constitution, i.e. the basis of certain solutions offered by the Kukurik coalition. And this is a question that has been worrying us for a long time because the barriers set by the representatives of the Kukuriku authorities regarding the vote of Croatian citizens outside Croatia are indeed the inequality of Croatian citizens before the Constitution. And I'm surprised that maybe the Constitutional Court has never responded to that fact before. Because we can ask what would happen in Croatia if the same rules concerning Croatian citizens outside Croatia were applied in Croatia. Tomorrow it may occur to them that some Croatian citizens cannot vote in their municipality in their town, but you must go to a neighboring town or perhaps a remote town and a municipality of hundreds of kilometers from your place of residence and there you can only exercise your right to vote if you are pre-marked. So it is indeed a harsh violation of human rights in Croatia. Because if we are all equal according to the Constitution, and especially as far as voting rights are concerned, then these people need to be provided with accessible places where they will express their electoral will. And in this way actually exercise your right that is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We should, therefore, appeal again and again to the Kukurik authorities to remove all barriers so that Croatian citizens can be equal, so that they can vote in the way Croatian citizens vote in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78686	Thank you. Come in, Mr. Mlakar. Come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78687	Thank you, dear colleague Matušić. Well, I'm glad you've re-absorbed this problem because it shows that the Croatian government has been living in the clouds for a long time, as it has said, but unfortunately there's no way to regain consciousness. What you were talking about, the lists of voters and the electoral law speak in what fantasies the Croatian government is doing. According to her official data, given this obligation to register for previous elections, if I remember the voters outside Croatia well there are 2247 or so, I may have been making a joke about which man, I apologize. We are familiar with the fact that only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, according to the last census, there are over 530 thousand Croats. I'm not going to guess how many there are with voting rights in other countries of the world. But that's about what this government is actually trying to trick us into. Instead of the relevant number that can now be proven very clearly and precisely, they assure us that they have solved the voters' lists because what was once called the voters' list has now been renamed to the register. And in the case of problems today in the list of voters, they'll control you in a way that will see if you're still in that famous voters' register and sometimes the list we ran. That's why I'm saying that this is all one bubble of soap, this is all an illusion that wants to be sold to us and so on by this law. And I'm afraid he'll have the same effects as he had this law that solved the voters' lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78688	Thank you. And the last replica Maria Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78689	Speaking of garter, then you're as an example of the illusion that you're talking about and now you said that we have a garter on the Internet and that we can't use it officially. You've actually mixed up two principles. This was later done by counterpart Bozinovic in his part of the debate. Therefore, the principle of open date, hence open data and the publication of these data and their official use. And that's what I told us in my debate most databases and documents eventually or it's electronic or digitalized. So that's two different things. Having something on the Internet and using it officially differs only in the fact that in this official use it is necessary to make some kind of identification, authentication or alter some kind of electronic credentials. So, make any removal of suspicion that it's so I say it's an authentic document. So it must not simply be mixed. So the open-date principle says everything we have is published on the Internet. However, in order for us to be able to use this officially, a procedure must be laid down in which it is uniformly defined as a document at some likely time in which you have grown up, which would mean a seal, a signature. So let's give that paper. The same thing, any electronic document, a document in electronic form is not an electronic document. It shall be an electronic document at the time of receipt of an electronic signature or an electronic certificate. And there is simply no interference between these two things, and that is why this law is important, because it says what with these digital data that we have, how to make official documents out of them in the communication of state bodies to each other and to the state and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78690	Thank you. There wasn't, you didn't answer the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78691	I'm very sorry that you're watching colleague Lugaric, but that's quite clear to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78692	At least he gave it? Is it? An apology. Correction. Just a little buddy of yours. Kola Bozinović, when his colleague Mlakar debated, then a colleague raised a replica stick No matter what. [[Intruder Bozinović: But she mentioned me.]] So she didn't answer during your hearing. My fellow Milkman, here you go. An apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78693	Well, I suggest you forbid us to talk if you're not looking at this. So that I'm waving at you here to turn this side, but you're fascinated. [[No, I mean, I don't know why that tone of my colleague, Mlakar? I just didn't notice when you picked up.]] I understand you completely. [[Intruder Batinić: If I am facing the other side I listen carefully to my colleague.]] Thank you very much. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you very much.]] Can I finally? I'm sorry you didn't, but it doesn't deserve a warning, but some mild reprimand of me in archaic times put up by my colleague Lugaric. [[/Intruding Batinić: Yes, here you are, the answer to the replica. You got the word.]] In my day, they were still burning wood and coal in those offices you're talking about, so there was a stamp and a stamp, but unfortunately you've never worked as an official in a municipality or a body. Well, if you'd done specific administrative work, then you'd know what I was talking about, and maybe you'd be more clear on what the problem is with this law. I'm going to illustrate very briefly. Article 8(2) of this new law states: "The authenticity of the data stems from the purpose of data collection." Perhaps you understand this provision, I unfortunately don't understand it. But if it's an authentic piece of information that you don't have to doubt just the one that's been collected for a certain purpose and that guarantees him truthfulness, then you and I have a different understanding of legal texts. What I was talking about today is that even today, the databases, the records on which the authorities of the state administration keep official records cannot be subject to what is said interoperability, so the exchange of data between different bodies either locally, or state, or public authorities if these data are not conducted in a way that they can be changed, exchanged. And I was telling you about the land books because you can try to solve that question in your own computer or the office that's in your charge, so go over there and have them take out your grant excerpt because you're looking for a building permit. Unfortunately, no matter what this law says, it's not possible. And in order for that to be possible, specific laws must be amended, not this Information Infrastructure Act. But you haven't come to that yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78694	Thank you. The Minister called in his word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78695	Thank you. As for the information stuff and the time of schooling, and I belong to these little out-of-date ones because I graduated '97. when Windows was gone in 2000, so it's doubtful where it might settle down. As far as this law is concerned, he's actually talking more about business processes. So all that was said in the debate and described are certain events talking about business processes. Otherwise, we now have in the General Administrative Procedure Act and in the State Administration System Act that something that already has a state should not be sought, but that would take a long time. This is how we make the officials available data from other state bodies. As far as this purpose of data collection is concerned, I was talking about the possibility of paralysing the register of voters who have information on the nationality and registration of officials who also have, there should be information about nationality because of this record being kept. And it's still possible that these are two different data that I wouldn't do for a purpose that shouldn't be different. And our question is whether or not we can transfer the data from one register to another, and the ZUP told us that we can't do it for a purpose. Thus, it was said of a purpose. As for the questions of the register of officials and these tools we have used or not used. Therefore, the fact is that during 2011 a list of officials was drawn up as defined by the Public Sector Register Act. That's a fact. However, the fact is also that because there was no other purpose other than to establish the list, that list was not updated. So the moment we made the transfer, that data wasn't as accurate as it was when it was done, when they entered. But that's the point, and that's what the article says. The COP Register Act and the moment we went to the second phase of COP then the data began to update because otherwise they would not be able to pay the salary exactly. Because that list wasn't about current accounts, about coefficients. We did this only later, so by adding that list of registers we made and now it is possible to make a central calculation and pay. At this point, Vice President, can I just go to my place for 30 seconds? I'll give the MPs the exact information when I've already got a chance to say it. So at this point in the central salary account is 115,825 making public what state officials from 966 institutions. And that means 13 in agencies, 3791 in other public institutions, 1501 in state attorney's offices, 2899 in state administration organisations, 235 in state offices, 36 949 in ministries, 927 in other state bodies, etc., 8500 in courts, 23 500 in the education system, 6700 in the welfare system, 27 300 in the health care system and 2777 in the state administration offices in the counties. Those who still need to join the COP, which will therefore be almost next month, the largest part refers to 48,606 in the education system. But this month 435 institutions entered and there are still 885 institutions to enter in the next month or two. The health care system still needs 34,251 employees into 109 institutions, and 58 institutions with 27 000 have entered so far. And those who have not yet entered are science and higher education, 128 institutions with 17,056 employees. And the only ministry that hasn't entered yet is the Ministry of the Interior with 27,460, the other numbers are smaller. So, compared to last month, that's about 30, 35 grand more. In all, therefore, there are now 115,825 employees in 966 institutions in the COP system, with 136,329 employees in 1231 institutions remaining. It's a month's worth of wages paid in May for April. Of course, it's a large number of institutions, a large number of which you probably know about different salary accounts. Then I'll answer the rest in the replica when I can answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78696	Thank you, Minister. We're moving on to replicas. Davor Bozinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78697	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister has persistently avoided answering this question of how he intends to implement, what dynamics, what deadlines with which resources? I will remind you that there is an Article 4 in the law that says that implementation documents will be passed by the Government, but they do not say within which time, which are related to technical support or merger to that central portal. Also, it does not answer the question of fellow Matusic about voters, and this is very closely related to this. I again mention Estonia, which has held last elections in 105 countries of the world precisely because of this way in which they have set up their platform. So, when you have it, there is no problem for every Croatian citizen in the world to vote in any elections in Croatia. As far as these new solutions are concerned, it's important to me that it's always the most expensive to invent hot water and I think we're going that way. Solutions exist, today on digital certificates, digital certificates are carried on an electronic identity card. In developed countries, they're mobile, and we're still talking about Kafka here. The state cloud is already trying to see how this back up through cybersecurity transferred to third countries, to diplomatic-consular representations. There's nothing about it. I don't know what our representatives at these cybersecurity meetings are talking about and what they're saying? Take practice, G8 has committed to helping all countries that are asking for help. The EU has set out large funds. Other countries are taking solutions from those that are more advanced and let's not create a major novelty, a novelty because for 10 to 20 years this has been in practice in the developed world.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78698	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78699	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is therefore necessary to establish public registers within 2 years of the public sector body to comply with the provisions of this law. As for the right to vote or this register of voters, unfortunately I only had five minutes, it's only by amending the Rules of Procedure that I would like to say about it very much, but I guess someone will mention it in the replica, so I'll answer. As regards the provision of voting rights to non-inhabited citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is largely impossible to amend the Constitution in 2010 for which we voted both you and we or vice versa. ... Absolutely, I mentioned it several times here that it was a compromise that I don't know why you agreed to, but since you've already agreed, then the least you need is now to accuse us. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That wasn't, that was nobody making you do it. As for the number of voters who vote in the elections, we have had three votes at the state level, here we will have on Sunday four where they have the right to vote and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have no residence in the Republic of Croatia. Local elections don't have that right to vote. Of which one, one vote was held before active registration and the other two after active registration. At the referendum on the accession of the Republic of Croatia, 12 to 13 thousand citizens outside the Republic of Croatia voted in favour of the European Parliament last year and in a referendum on the definition of marriage. Therefore, the active registration process has neither made it difficult nor denied anyone, nor prevented the right to vote because then these numbers would be slightly smaller, and that is why I define that I do not deny anyone the right to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78700	Thank you. The next replica of Davorin's Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78701	Well, it's a shame the minister isn't enough this time, but he keeps answering me something that I didn't even say or I asked him. So, I wasn't even talking about the number of people who were covered by the central salary account, I was talking about the total number of state and public officials. That was the point of my speech. And why am I saying that, because you have two institutions now doing part of the business of running these registers that you now want to fit into one of these non-male laws. It's Finna and it's APIS. The problem is with APIS, which is shared ownership between the City of Zagreb and the state, while FINA is deprived of the problem. However, these two institutions have been doing the job for years and these data are still not the safest and happiest. And maybe that's why the idea of this law of yours is to introduce tomorrow, I can't unfortunately manage all of that, the data centers. These are some companies that will hold data for the bodies of state and public administration, but of course you did not say in this law that these companies, companies, should look at what conditions the data centres should meet. I am therefore forced to conclude that tomorrow it will also be some private companies that will need to meet those conditions which will be prescribed by the Government by its regulation as set out in Article 4(2) of this Act. It has nothing to do with the voters' lists, and I see you're fond of it. The list of voters remains still a problem with 400 thousand people who were there and did not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia which you deleted by blackmailing the adoption of the Constitution in 2010 because without entering the diaspora quota, I say, and places where they will vote you did not want to vote for the changes to the Constitution that led us to the European Union. And that's true, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78702	Thank you. Answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78703	As far as the 2010 Constitution changes, it's been discussed a lot, and I think it's a very transparent story. In 2007, we went to the polls with a proposal that the diaspora had no right to vote, and you went with the proposal to stay as it was so far. And between those, between those two points of view, this is a compromise. And the constitution is usually brought by compromise. Therefore, I propose that, given that we have on the agenda at some point a two-digit amendment to the Constitution, to propose a letter vote for citizens of the Republic of Croatia, for the Croatian Parliament outside the Republic of Croatia. We will gladly accept it, put it into laws, and then solve all the problems you have on this matter. And we'll define the active registration differently, etc. as part of constitutional changes where this matter would be better defined by the referendum. And that's what I said when it was a change, when it was the new law on voter registration. As for the number of officials, so if 115 825 are in the COP, and 136 329 is not, then the total number of employees is the sum of those two numbers. That's 249 grand and something's going on in two institutions each, otherwise it would be 251. And those are moving numbers. This difference, to explain, is because of the number of institutions if one teacher works in two schools then it counts in one school and another. And when you count people, one time. That's why he can come, that's the only reason he can make a difference. As for the data centres and the involvement of private companies, I would remind you that you were found when you came to the Ministry of State and the register of voters who led a private company for most of Croatia. It is now no longer run by a private company, water, in two years we have managed to run this company APIS, which is owned by the Republic of Croatia, the majority and the City of Zagreb, one small part.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78704	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78705	And otherwise, the plan is that, and it's also made public, to buy from the City of Zagreb that part of 49% to be a completely state-owned company, and what's called, state-owned information infrastructure, to us. responds to the importance of any private data centres etc. Now, our DANA is a center for what we said in the APIS, and it's working so well for now. [[Upadica Batinić: Thank you Minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78706	There'll be an opportunity later, Minister. Next replica, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78707	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would basically, as probably all of us, welcome this intensification of this law that goes beyond just the number of civil servants, but actually the basic idea that people don't have to extract a meaninglessly large number of certificates for the data that the state has or should have. And in that sense, this is the law's intensity, which is how it's done, shows on one hand the good intentions of your ministry and those who suggested it, but all of the ineffectiveness of the current government. Why? Simply because this whole venture does not follow those radical procedures that should be carried out in the reorganisation of the work of the state administration from changes to other laws that could be applied, even from terminology as you know it yourself, you are talking about registers and there talking about collections, bases, banks, etc., to obligations there in those laws that say applicants and those who demand to give it personally, and this cannot be done... only by these laws but by amending all other laws until it is inconceivable that you can write that nothing costs because simply if you want to provide information and communication security, you have to organize a server farm that will be under state control, and these are enormous amounts. And as it is said, simply strategic objectives, implementation of it, plans, deadlines do not exist, and that is why it is a reflection of simply the inability and ineffectiveness of this government to realise ideas that are simply, which should be realised, which, as soon as possible, should be organised.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78708	Time. Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78709	Thank you. So, first of all, thank you for identifying the good intentions. This second part of the comment on the incompetence of the Government will be seen as a contribution to the political debate, but I would suggest and I hope that you will accept that for the final bill of law you put on your committee which you are president to discuss both these security aspects and authentication and the second part, so as far as public registers are concerned. What caused one comment, which is either a fact or a fact that it says it will not ask for additional funds. Therefore, the change in the business processes, in particular which they simplify, does not require additional funding in the budget, so they are already already in one part provided for in the current budget, and the other will be ensured by reducing the costs that will undoubtedly be incurred when this law is implemented. As far as the server farm is concerned, it already exists in the good part, there is an Apis, and the funds for it are foreseen by European funds among other things, and indeed, that is what Mr. Mlakar also mentioned, so it is our desire that Apis, that the part that has the city of Zagreb, be bought and be a completely state-owned company, because it is mainly the state, for example, the national queen and the register of voters, is now, so completely in Apis. We found that it was divided into two, that two companies worked, and then, for example, you couldn't get a copy out of the birth certificate, but only where it was being run. Now it can still be seen at the country level, and it is now possible to see data from voters' registers, including the number of persons registered at a particular address, of course, not their names, and then, of course, it is very easy to identify those who are interested, for example local self-government councils when they get the right to see the list of voters and registers to report to the police if someone is registered in a place where they don't really live. So things are moving, and here I hope that you will accept our proposal to discuss this law for a second reading on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, and there will be opportunities for a more detailed debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78710	Thank you. Next line, Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78711	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I agree with you that the 2010 Constitution, which has been brought into this position by Croats outside of Croatia, is mainly those in BiH with 4 polling stations, the 2010 SDP and HDZ agreed policy when this constitution was adopted in June for which I was against, so I voted, one of the 8 against it, and such agreed policies of the SDP and HDZ. In fact, when you talk about last elections for the European Parliament being voted by 12 thousand people outside the Republic of Croatia, mainly in BiH, it is less than 3%, and in Croatia the response was 20%. In BiH, the response is less than 3% of the total number of voters in BiH. Secondly, I now understand why the Republic of Croatia's budget has been summed up by all the ministries of information and information services, anything relating to information, so 550 million kuna has been allocated in this budget for this year. So, in this 2014 budget, there are also 550 million kuna funds, so I understand why it's all expensive. Thirdly, when you were talking about the COP, I'm not going to say I'm surprised because I know how many individual ministries have employees, but when you mentioned that COP, so central salary account, then you say that 37,000 people without MUP are employed in the ministries, in the ministries of 37,000 people + MUP 25,000 people. I believe that this figure is impressive, I would not like to comment with you, but when we compare Croatia and countries in an environment or some other country, then I think that figure is too large. If that were the case, the best say Commissioners for Investments where the Commissioner for Investments for Faster Resolution paperwork, so he can skip all that administration that currently exists in a particular ministry. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78712	Thank you. We have an answer. There you go, Minister. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78713	In this number of 37,000 + these 20 and something of the MUP is included also armed forces headed to the Ministry of Defence. So that number is still smaller in that sense, and I said, so no army, police and those in uniform, so customs, tax, that's the number two Zagreb hospitals the largest. That's it. And we can give information to all the ministries. As far as the 2010 Constitution is concerned, so I don't see, so first of all, the definition of the agreement is particularly the two largest political parties, I consider it a positive act, if two of the largest political parties can agree on something, otherwise, that's good. As your absolute legitimate right not to be in favour of this agreement, and in that sense, I understand what you are objecting about, which is fine, but when those who have voted for it do not seem to understand. But if there is a desire for change, I said constitutional changes are on the agenda and I call on colleagues to support and propose to allow for the Croatian Parliament a letter vote by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. and then I don't think there would be any more problems with the issue, then the embassies would be voted by citizens who had a residence in the Republic of Croatia, and they wouldn't find themselves outside, and the diaspora would vote by letter, and three MPs would vote at the same time three thousand or three hundred thousand, and so I don't see any problem with that being possible for the citizens of the Republic. Well, here's another time I can do it again if there's any more questions I'll say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78714	Thank you, Minister. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78715	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, right on the system of a single pay account, you've shown that the system can't just work if something is written and that's the case. Why? Because some things have been set up four years ago, unfortunately today we have 40% of those who receive salaries from the state budget that are in that unique system. But it's very interesting that those who may have been under your fiscal consolidation program are the most interesting that it is being introduced inside they have not yet been introduced. But I want to tell you exactly what you're saying is crucial, what you wrote in this law. So you have practically predicted that you must believe in the digital records of the other institution. That's what this law of yours is about. However, what is crucial in order to do so in order for this to work, you must provide a means of working for those officers who are required to fill and have to update it because if they have not filled it and if they do not update it then there cannot be any mutual trust in the accuracy of the digital records. And in order to be able to do that, then you have to secure the funds because at this point, many state institutions have neither at any technical level of the task force nor I'm saying that their software is so compatible that they simply can't work. So from what I've been saying, and I'm going to keep telling you the reasons why some found the reason that the OIB doesn't work is going to happen to you in this. Unfortunately, in Croatia, we do not want to learn from the bad experiences of the previous story, and three times we pay for the discovery of hot water and therefore we tap with reforms as we tap. Well, if this bill of yours had accepted everything that has gone wrong in the past years, then eventually this JOP, too, in your 2.5 years compared to what you inherited from the previous government, then perhaps some of the provisions of this law would have gone in a completely different direction, and this is how it will unfortunately remain a dead letter on paper and as a consequence, above all, a political will to implement this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78716	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78717	So as for the establishment of a central wage accounting system, I always look at it on two sides, firstly, we have so many of those that are not in the system, and secondly, we have so many of those that are in the system, so 115 thousand people who are now in the system is 115 thousand more than they were at the beginning. And I believe that if the technical issue with the MUP is resolved, and after that with part of the education system and part of the health system, then we will have de facto 90 and some percent, there will be only a small part. And probably you as a finance minister when you were Minister of Finance and here's my colleague Linic, and I believe my colleague, Lalovac, and my colleague Dalic, also know what are the biggest consumers in terms of wages. So more than 9 billion and something is in the division of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the largest part of which is in primary and secondary education which are the founders of the units of local and regional self-government, then health care with all collective agreements and with those which were also negotiations that were so on. and the fact is that the system pays differently defined that different programmes should have been made, or different calculations for different institutions and slowed down. But it has nothing to do with whether we did something or didn't, so the system wasn't about the accounts, the coefficients, the special additions that were the condition that we could pay the wages, but that's one project that started and we keep going. We're not going to discuss now how we found him. We can discuss everything like that. As for what you said in trouble, the worst thing to do is to do nothing, which means that this law is a step in the right direction. Is the right step, whether it's the right direction, or if it's a little bit of left, we can discuss it on the right, but that's why we're here to fix it in another reading, so if there's a suggestion we'll listen to them even though they're good at what we're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78718	Thank you. We'll stop working now. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. It's 13,24 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78719	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the DC Club and the independent representatives will speak to the respected Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78720	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, on behalf of the club, we welcome the coming of this law to the Parliament for debate, you might say, better ever than ever, because it seems to me that this law is really late, given that many EU countries, or almost all countries, have already made e-Government, e-Government, our neighbouring Austria or Italy, have had a full 10 years of e-Government. However, it is good that this law has come to the agenda even though the deadlines for implementing this law are 2 years, which is not small, but it seems to me that we are moving unconstitutionally towards information, faster meeting the needs of citizens, faster meeting the needs of the business world and the very interaction of state bodies, i.e. to meet both the administrative and economic and political needs of efficiency that it has for the ultimate purpose, it aims to create so-called. a good or efficient government. What's definitely a paradox is that only a virtual information administration system or system becomes a practical assumption for human character management. So far, we have obviously not had any management with the human character because citizens have had to wait for answers to their demands, there has been a debate here, and there have been discussions about the home offices, whether they can be asked from Zagreb today, e.g. The birth certificate or the death certificate for Sisak, unfortunately cannot be obtained, I am telling you from experience, and it still needs to be done even though many parts of Croatia are imported, but for example. Some areas aren't. It was about the garter, so 10 years ago we created a database, we informed the garter shop, but here, after 10 years, even those parts, those... the municipalities that were verified, so completely harmonised, checked, can't be a document that, for example, can't be a document. It can get a building permit or it can't be a loan document, it can't be a file to file a lawsuit, so it's been 10 years, and we haven't practically achieved the intention we had, which is to speed up the services and needs of the citizens. Therefore, there is still a lot of work to be done, but here, it is absolutely necessary to welcome this bill because the specific objectives of e-Government must be the efficiency of work, the security of the public administration system at all levels, public e-services must be available to all citizens without discrimination, information and communication technology must be a condition without which there is no economic development and competitiveness. The introduction of eGovernment reduces the direct contact of the administration with citizens, investors, the speed of the case resolution practically frees economic development, facilitates jobs. This redefines the practical role of public administration in economic development, as well as in the function of protecting the rights and interests of citizens. Therefore, there are also quality changes in the provision of public services, prices are reduced, quality and speed rises, in this way absolutely faster and more fully meet all those needs of citizens. This also reduces the number of public administration officials, as well as introduces control in human resources management, and also improves quality in the process of adopting and executing administrative acts. In fact, what we can conclude is not so much a problem with the functioning of the state administration, as the functioning of local administrations and self-government is a problem, because you today, for example, You have certain electronic services and e-services in Zagreb. For example. Citizens online, you have the opportunity to follow your case when you turn to the city administration of Zagreb, but you also cannot spend it in another city and it will really take more than 2 years for things to be equal and put to the same quality, both state and local. And of course, the conditions for the introduction of e-Government, i.e. e-Government or paper-free administrations, are necessary financial resources, we said here that they do not need them so far, but they will definitely need them a lot. Adequate legal regulation, here it is right now in some way and we are designing strong political support and will, I don't think there should be any problem because we are definitely late in our behaviour towards others and in the system of imitation compared to other countries. And, of course, there is still a whole series of other things to be fulfilled in order to introduce electronic administrations, eGovernment or eGovernment, which is both the security system and the electronic authorisation system, identification and a lot more. So, in conclusion, now that everyone's talked a lot about this subject. Users from public administration, eGovernment will have an increase in the speed of services because the service can never be too fast but will be far faster in or into what we have today. We'll have, I'd say, a kind of greater comfort because users will be very comfortable getting a service in one place through any communication channel, at any time, from any place that's very important. And this system respects diversity because users want to practically make public administrations, which so often is not the case treated as an individual personality. Unfortunately, this has happened very rarely so far. And what is extremely important, the e-Government simplifies and fucks up the services citizens are looking for. This law provides for a way for Croatia to become a modern society, a public administration society in the 21st century. Thank you. We will uphold this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78721	Thank you. We have one replica. Boris Kovačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78722	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mrs. Representative just, so here's the truth for when you said it was impossible to get certain copies and documents in one place if a person has a residence in another place so I figured you out when you talked about it. So here's the truth, and I'm a witness that you can get certain documents like a housekeeper and a copy from a birth certificate for a person who doesn't even belong to a tight family, for example. I don't know if you're a career, you can get, here are these documents, specifically in the Mother's Office in Ivanić-City, regardless of the whereabouts of this person, which is specifically the person they were looking for, here are these documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78723	The replica matches the respected Vesna Scare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78724	My dear colleague, you have not been well with me. You have not listened to me very carefully. I said the situation is much better now, that I can get documents in one place. But I am speaking from my own experience, so from a job that I used to be a lawyer, I can tell you that in Zagreb you can go to the Mother's Office in Ilica and get a wedding or birth certificate from some person in Split or Imotski or Ivanić-City but you can't do it for Sisak. So not all the parts, I said not all the parts
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78725	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Boro Grubisic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78726	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary with the assistants. They say it's time for money and daily we can see and see for ourselves and when we go to the institutions of our country whether it's the police, it's because of documents of various kinds, whether it's some other institutions, waiting orders. It's about the lines and the waste of all the time to come up with all kinds of documents. We can see this every day, sir, here's my friend from Slavonski Brod Shimo Djurdjevic knows what's on our police station where in one hallway you're waiting for both IDs and passports and for holding and carrying guns and for driving licences etc., change, replacement, extraction etc.. In one of those hallways, I was met by an elderly gentleman with a young man who was 18 years old and said, "Doctor, what am I supposed to do now?" The child passed the driver's exam but a month ago he was at the doctor's office and now he's out of it, that medical belief that he's capable of driving a car, he has to go back to the doctor and pay his doctor's opinion again, so it's been going on for a month and he's... Auto school and passed the driver's exam. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I don't know what to tell him, I'm not in charge, but the man recognized me so he asked me. In HZZO, I had a number of questions when I went to my job too, so the insurance companies of the Croatian Health Insurance Office also asked me, it's full of hallways of the world. Now we have what a colleague of the e-office says, e-state or I don't know what it's called, what it says here in a state without paper. Can we trust Mr. Minister that it will really be a state without paper but clearly with computers if we have a variety of statistics on the number of those who use computers? There are those who serve computers just for and as long as they need to get on the facebook, or I don't know what. But to take some other steps a little harder going. Personally, I never paid my account by e-signature, by e-signature in the bank, or by means of the Internet, but here I have a home person who does it neatly by going to the bank, but good. Let's hope that for hope, that's what I'd say, indeed, that we really will, that we won't really be in the age or that someone here talked about as the Kafka situation. Although the Croatian state, for example, for Estonia, has been a helmet for almost 20 years. The Estonian example could be an example that perhaps should just be copied into certain specific terms to say Croatian conditions. When there was a talk about the Fund for, about the Peace Fund then every time I discussed the Annual Report of the Croatian Pension Fund, I talked about the fact that 120 million non-retirement pensions were paid annually on the page. And it's year by year repeating itself. Now Mrsic has made a decision that the OIB, so to deliver the OIB to the fund, and then it determines who is alive, who has the right and who does not really belong to the pension. And now the data has come out that around 2000, I think Mr. Schamper may know better, so those who received pensions in Croatia and about 13,000 who did not deliver the OIB and live abroad. But that's only two, three months ago, about the new year established. So, for years, not nearly 20 years from year to year, we have 120 million, payments of non-performing pensions of the Croatian state. In 20 years, it's 2 billion and 400 million. That kind of thing is as good as anyone said here... means something is still moving in this sense that these information and state without paper. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Shouldn't we inform each ministry or agency about how to link it, however you like English, and that a citizen or a legal entity would have access and that what is needed can be obtained in one place. Here it is expressed by the majority and doubts about the achievement of this plan, this I would say a good step for all of us in Croatia for a number of reasons. It is said that in the country itself, within the state, the state institutions spent around 50 million kuna per year to spend. On one portal, I guess it's called the absurd one colleague talked about has various examples, I'm not going to say manipulation, but what citizens experience when they come to any office of the state administration or other ministry or at a local level in the offices of the state administration and what they come across and what obstacles they face. And personally, come on, this is a local thing, and I said just before the minister that I walked for three days, four days to get the signature of the head of an office in Slavonski Brod because it goes through protocol, so while the protocol enrolls, until he takes it to the boss, and again until he gets back to the clerk, it takes about four days. It's about legalizing the facility. And then when we read on ours, reports from the Ministry of Construction as to how much legalization has been done in percentage of each office, i.e. the Department of Construction in Cities and Countys that own such departments, we see for example that the city of Dubrovnik, Bjelovar and Varazdin is at the top with 25% by 1.1.2013, that our County is boat-posaviska with 4%, the town of Slavonski Brod 8% solved cases for legalization. And the thing is, you just grab the money, I'd say so. It simply grabs the money, because if a man has filed a legalisation request, he expects it, and we know even when the legalisation deadlines are still next year. Is next year, then it's if you're working to grab money for local self-government, but also for the state. Unfortunately, it doesn't work that way, because people come across a lot of obstacles, so when I send out five of them, let's say a specific case to my wife, then they tell me it's good that you came because your husband is quite unpleasant and so arrogant. Well I can't walk 10 times and waste time, and I said at the beginning time is money. It is said that there is no need to provide additional resources in the assessment of the resources necessary for the implementation of this law. I'd add to that and according to that replica of mine, it's no longer necessary to secure it. Namely, I said it was in the budget of the Republic of Croatia and it was not touched or rebalanced very little, so when I summed up all the information, the purchase of information equipment by all the ministries and agencies, I put it together, and it turned out to be just over 530 or over half a billion kuna for this year. And I was wondering what so much information would do, and here it seems to me that it might contribute to yours, to ours, let's say to the goal, that we all have some benefit, and I've calmed down a little after knowing that this kind of money is being allocated to the information. If what it says were to come to life, what it said and what Minister Bauk explained, then perhaps there would be some justification for it in so many purchases of information equipment for various ministries. And along with a speck of doubt about the need for so much spending to inform the ministries and agencies. About Croatia being here after 22, 23 years of our independence that we have come to the introduction of this kind of thing so that we do not have to go more to the place of birth or the place of extraction of the housekeeper, to the fact that, as the minister said, we do not know whether it is with or without approval, that there is an electronic vote for Croats outside Croatia as the possibility of voting, given that our rights are denied, let's say, in BiH, only in 4 places. So, Sarajevo, Tuzla, Mostar and Bihac. Well, then that leads to the fact that the number of voters in BiH is very, very small, not to say minor. Twelve thousand voters and over 530,000 Croats in Bosnia. So don't we ask ourselves what it's all about? Is this indeed the lack of interest of people living in Croatia with Croatian citizenship, and with a residence in BiH, are they really not interested in politics in Croatia and the results of the elections? I don't know, I'd ask myself before anyone else would tell me. And I asked myself, and I voted when the constitutional change was in June 2010 against it because I knew exactly what it was all about. About data protection or authentication, did I say right? It's a very interesting word to say slowly so that man doesn't get confused, right? The identification and data of the subjects and subjects has already been discussed here, protection and those seeking the service should also be taken into account. So I hope that in fact, here's everything that's been designed I don't know what Mr. Vuksic said and from whom he finds application in the wider circle of our citizens. Anyway, the HDSSB club will support this legislative proposal with this I say hope that maybe it will still come to that eppur itself flies, and I hope that this law in relation to the OIB and some other items that various governments have brought to life that we can still get a favor through this country without paper. However, when we talk about this service or when we talk about some of the institutions like the garnery, then you know yourself that you can't use this Internet or computer extract if you don't have the original one to say purple stamp. He won't admit it. You can take out an archod excerpt and I don't know anywhere but you still have to go to the garter to get you to burn the original stamp. And there are other institutions that work like that. So we can only get information for these institutions on the computer. But that our document is worth further action does not work for many institutions. So, I don't know if it can be changed or if something else can be applied so that eventually whoever needs this document can also enter this country without paper and see that this document that you brought or removed from the Internet is actually a match to that original in the garter, catastra or I don't know from any other institution. How to achieve that goal? Here, the HDSSB club, I said it would support this law in the hope that it would be applicable. Because it's not worth the law if the law isn't applicable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78727	At this exhibition on behalf of the club there is a replica of the same club Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78728	Oh, thank you. Here you have mentioned the example of Estonia, so one state that has not allocated many to all its citizens, has assigned PINs and allowed them to vote electronically in the elections. However, all three Baltic states have also, although Estonia has gone as far as possible, introduced open lists and preferential votes before all three Baltic states and mixed the electoral system. What may be interesting to us is that they have introduced positive and negative preferential votes into their electoral systems so that there is a possibility for a citizen to give a negative preferential voice and then a few negative preferential votes depending on the model to have the effect of one positive and erases one positive preferential vote. Very interesting. Of course, this was preceded by where we are today informing the system, which was preceded by, for example, that citizens can schedule an Internet meeting with a state official, that they can bring their problem to the email address of a particular official, that they can announce themselves to him in a given time and that they can actually establish full communication not only with the ministry and not only with the department, but also with a specific person who is actually listed on the websites and in various forms of communication between the authorities of the state and public administration and citizens. So it's not just as often as we do that there's a public body's web address, but it's actually very little benefit from what this web address exists, but it's really possible to establish and communicate with citizens and any public body through these web addresses.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78729	A new replica, Goran Maric. You didn't lift a tile to respond to a replica. ... I'm still not blind, I can see. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm looking in your direction the whole time, I've been looking in your direction to see if you'll respond to the replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me. [[Intruder: If I may add, I've seen it lift.]] Then answer it, come on, answer it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78730	Col. Djurovic, in 104 countries, Estonians from the diaspora therefore vote electronically in 104 countries. Not just like us, and I was only talking about Bosnia and Herzegovina, but here is the information about 104 countries. Secondly, what you were saying about being able to communicate directly through a website or with a specific or scheduled meeting, says page 3, "It provides secure communication and information related to the enforcement of laws and regulations, giving expert opinions and explanations, and maintaining expert advice on how to implement the law, as well as on other general issues of importance for the proper functioning and improvement of the way and efficiency of work in the offices of the state administration, units of local self-government etc." Therefore, it is here and explained in the explanation of this law that and things like that, let's hope it happens. Thank you very much. I won't be long.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78731	A new replica of Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78732	Thank you very much. You said fellow Grubisic that institutions sometimes do not recognise certain documents, not only do they sometimes not recognise but they act differently on the same document. Very often in one place they accept the same document in another. But the problem is why do you sometimes look for documents you don't need? It's no problem that we can get the birth certificate in any office now, but do we have to get it out at all? Why does she need a housekeeper, if we can't get a passport without a housekeeper? So if we have a passport, how come we have the right to look for someone else's housekeeper? Some document precedes another. But every clerk has his own rule wherever you go, he just doesn't understand the one who never waited in line and did anything. Changing the business address in Croatia is more complicated than performing any complex business venture in a civilized country. Imagine you get a register from the Trade Court that you changed the address, you have the Assembly's decision and you need to change it to the Statistical Bureau, says no, you're making a historical excerpt. So where to ask someone for a historical excerpt when only a change in address is already an existing company that has worked for 30 years. If the public notary confirms the historical excerpt, it shall not accept the certified extract from the public notary. Where, then, do they have the right to take away from them what the state has given to a public notary? Well, then, in one city he'll consider the other he won't consider. So the public notebook, the document, the correction the public notebook confirms, it's a credible document. In some court accepts it, some statistical institutions don't accept it, in Zagreb there's no way, they won't talk to you, they won't talk to you, they won't talk to you, they won't talk to you, they won't talk to you, they won't talk to you. To change the number into electricity is a problem in Croatia, for God's sake, you have a thousand documents that none of you have the right to ask for, there's a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78733	Time for my colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78734	Why not establish which documents they need and in which case, and not that in one case they need, in the other they don't need, they need Janka and Marko don't need them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78735	A fellow Maric because he's worth warning you about? Because you think that some other rules apply to you, I warn you three times that your time is up. The replica matches Goran Maric, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78736	Thank you very much. I don't know what's going on today, Mr. Vice President. In fact, Mr. Maric you are right, therefore, different practices, unequal practices or, as they say somewhere, unequal arches in dealing with public documents really create confusion among citizens. In addition, you certified document that's been certified by a public notary, it's only worth six months to you as if something was about to change, or as if anything would change when you verify some kind of document in a public notary, then it's thought to be, to say the truth. But how in six months will change anything else I don't know, but there you have to rediscover as a medical conviction is being drawn after a month as if a 18-year-old child who passed a driving exam would be sicker than a month ago when he was completely healthy. You're amazing at the paradoxes that happen, but the paradoxes that, what you say if you haven't walked through these institutions and you need something you can't even imagine what's going on and I'm sorry and I'm still gonna have to walk on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78737	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78738	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, so here's more reason to be pleased but let me start my debate with one... since the debates we've had so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am also pleased that the consensus in this house is that we need this law, but this consensus does not end at all. In fact, we're treating this law, which we agree is good, as if it were pretermined, and we're already condemning it in advance. I think that the existing infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia, if we talk about information exists. And my colleague Grubišić here presented some statistics on how much money is spent on information equipment, but this is already existing information equipment, i.e. information equipment needs to be restored since it is becoming obsolete over time. You will no longer find in the offices of the State Administration or the public administration in the Republic of Croatia to use typewriters, machines that are too old, at least here I have not met them for a very long time. So, at one level, the infrastructure preparedness of our State Administration exists, I think it will take more software preparation than hardware infrastructures if we talk in the number of computers and the people and computers themselves that can do the job. On the other hand, I must say that we are still far behind Western countries where, for example, even the embassies of some Western countries here in Croatia do not own a fax at all. Fax is something that's gone... history, e-mail is quite acknowledged and a normal way of communicating in the Western world, I hope it will soon become ours. So, we all agree that this is a necessary law, first of all for the reason that it is his ultimate intention, I will say it under quotes, reducing red tape towards the end-user, or the end-user that results some documents will no longer have to be bothered with the interrelationships of state offices and the competences of different ministries when the requested document comes. This is particularly important when we keep in mind, and what it says in the materials that we have received, that is, in the opening part of the law, that the speeds of response and mode of work of public administration are the main factors of the complaints of citizens to public and other administrations. All of this proves, of course, that the great support we have heard, as well as on the Committee on Information and Media, as well as in this House which is spoken in it. We've talked a lot about e-Citizen, e-Government, e-Croatian as such, and I've used this phone booth several times in this term to point out the need, and the trends that point us to become one, I would dare say, one coin to use, e-State or e-Society, however you wish. There are bright examples, first of all we're talking about units of local self-government that are in the smaller or larger scope of some of these things that we're now trying to introduce globally, introduced in our field. For example, you had units of local self-government where you could track your subject, from his lecture, where he was present, where the degree of resolution, when he was solved where you can pick him up, you were also informed, either by e-mail or text message, etc., etc. Of course, this could only have been about the jurisdiction of local self-government units, not in any way the wider picture, and I think this law is the cornerstone of this image, or this horizon. So this law is the main legal prerequisite to meet exactly, to hit the foundations of e-Croatian, e-Citizen, e-Government, or I would say e-State. We also have this law in the regular procedure, I believe that this will result in one quality legal proposal that we will receive in the second reading, so that the remarks made in the debate would be, which I have not heard much, I have to admit, but there were, that it would result in a quality legislative proposal with a clear nomotechnical structure that would then be easy to implement. However, in order to reach the stage of this law at all, other preconditions were needed, steps, steps on the road. So I'll just remind you of some. So there is certainly, as some colleagues and colleagues have noted, the introduction of the OIB. However, I will remind you, and in this debate it has been mentioned many times that the OIB was introduced, that for a long time it has not, therefore, been alive for a long time, that it has not received the use that was intended for it in the original. However, I will remind you that the OIB has not been introduced since yesterday and that I agree that it has not been revived for a long time, but that we should not seek reasons only in the term of office of this government, or that the reasons for this exist, if you ask me, and that is now my personal opinion, above all, in the term of the last Government. Also one of the preconditions was the networking of the state administration. We had this in some parts of the ministry and among the ministries, so amongst the ministerial portfolios, for example, this has already been mentioned, you can find birth certificate or housekeeper in any state administration office regardless of the place of original issue or place of birth. Also, the tax has been imported, and then you have a central salary account and now not to list all those who have been networking the ministries and interministral portfolios. Especially interesting is the central salary account because some colleagues are concerned that someone will have access to or will not, but it has obviously not concerned anyone so far that some of the state budgets have had multiple receipts that they have no right to. Central salary bill just stopped it. There is also the Terrestrial Act, which we will first run in electronic form and store in a similar way as we have done with physical books but this time it will be about hard drives. So what I can conclude is that this law is certainly the basis for introducing, so-called. e-Croatian, e-Citizen, e-Government. I believe that this law is going into step with the trends in the West and that there will be more to be done, but this is the first step and therefore they deserve our support and I look forward to the second reading of the law when we see what it will look like in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78739	Thank you. We have one replica, dear Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78740	Comrade Hajdukovic, you said we were going to the west. We are a thousand steps behind the West when it comes to the state administration and the attitude towards our own people and citizens. In the west you can't see the crowd anywhere, not on any counter, only in Croatia can you look for a passport, if you pay it more expensive, you will get it within 8 days, if you won't pay it more, then you will wait a month. When you answer your word, then answer it, not like this. You have the right replica. Vice President, warn, please. If something is to be arranged, all the difficulties in the area are considered. All information shall be received from the person to whom this law applies and a legal framework shall be created to remove and any deficiencies and there shall be no one who will not accept any reasonable solution. But I'm not interested in e-Croatia if it's still going to be the same, if it still needs a birth certificate, it can't be more than six months old. Who's in Croatia who said birth certificate isn't worth it if it's over six months old? On what basis is this possible and why is it so and why should a birth certificate even be required if someone has all the other documentation? How come no one finally eliminates it, it doesn't take those who have a living, birth passport, an I.D. on every birth certificate? Where's the right to ask someone for it, and if I can't get it out? The question is how to rationalize things and why it has to wait to extend the passport for a month. There's no excuse for anything like that, there's no excuse. In 48 hours everything can be resolved in Croatia if it wants to be resolved, but it will not be resolved and will not be resolved on purpose. And I don't tie this to political parties or to the situation, but to the administration where everyone plays the great head of the counter where a document is to be issued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78741	The replica corresponds to the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78742	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague with some parts might agree, but they say the journey from a thousand miles begins with the first step. If this is the first step forward, every step forward, half step forward and I'd say this is a jump, I think we should say hello. You say crowds in the west, but the problem is you define them as the West. If we take EU countries, for example, if you go to neighbouring Hungary, you'll find quite a crowd if you go to Italy, if you go to France. I've had a chance to observe these systems firsthand and I can tell you that their so-called. The counters don't really know much from ours, except maybe a little bit of interiors are a little bit more orderly. Often when we are discussing a specific legislative proposal, as is the case here, then we are considering a broader picture, it is certainly also your right, and there I can agree with you in parts that sometimes requires too many documents. So if you have been issued an identity card, some logic requires that you have both a birth certificate and a housewife, or on the basis of something that has been issued. But I refuse to believe he won't get rid of it. If he's not going to get rid of what we're doing here, then why are we even discussing legal issues, then why are we even dealing with politics? It must be resolved and resolved and this legislative proposal is one of the steps towards resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78743	We're continuing an individual debate. It's next, dear colleague Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78744	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Being modern, modern, in progress over time, is an advanced ideal and a constant insistence of liberals. Innovation, the development of technologies in particular science for liberals is a challenge and motive. He truly believes in science and, if something is based on the science of liberals, they no longer question it, they believe it and try to implement it into social reality. Overall for development, and especially for the development of entrepreneurship, for the work of innovation, creativity needs freedom. Freedom is dry, our mind needs freedom as our body needs air to breathe. And that's why we liberals insist so much on the freedom of each individual or individual. Only a person without fear, only a person free of all pressures, fear can be entirely creative. Therefore, the greatest researchers, inventors, revolutionaries in all areas of human activity have always been truly brave people. This government and this coalition are doing exactly that job. It regulates the state so that everyone in it can be as free as possible and that whoever wants to go into the adventure of creation, creation, innovation, adventure of entrepreneurship, all of them and everyone without distinction in ideological, religious, racial, national or ideological belongings or any other personal belief and all under the same conditions. This coalition is working to make it possible for everyone to freely develop their talents, ambitions, or ambitions within their personality to achieve their ambitions, to be happy or happy. This difficult and largely unpopular way to regulate the state for all inevitably leads to conflict with many, and I am glad that this government does not desist regardless of difficulties. And I'm glad this government has implemented today's proposal for a law on state information infrastructure. I am particularly pleased that this government clearly distinguishes the state and public administration. The public administration of this Kafkaskian administrative, bureaucratic apparatus that we often feel is the sole purpose of making life worse for the citizens has a very opposite role in society. The public administration is and must be there to facilitate and simplify life in the complex relations between the state and its citizens. It is certain that today's modern era of electronic communication is the simplest, most efficient and anti-corruption way of e-state, i.e. by introducing state information infrastructure and setting up so-called state without paper. Let me read several chapters of reasoning exclusively for public reasons, which in my opinion are important for understanding the adoption of this law. so the citizens do not need to know the sharing of responsibilities within the state bodies of public services and waste time exploring where individual requirements are being resolved, but it is the state that has to ensure the simplest way of access to services. That's a great line. This is achieved by a unique administrative location either in real or in the virtual world. For the realization of both types of a single administrative place, it is necessary to ensure that all data are available in the country at the point of contact with the parties and at the site of the resolution of the requests. And now the proposer wonders, how to identify, to authenticate in the virtual world, how to ensure reality to institutions that documents that often contain very sensitive data in accordance with the Data Protection Act will indeed be delivered to the data subject. In order to address these problems, the bill establishes a system of the central state portal, which is a unique administrative place in the virtual world, a national identification and authentication system is defined as binding for all institutions. Communication of public sector institutions with citizens through the country's user compartment is prescribed. All of these create legal assumptions for the achievement of the e-Citizen project and ultimately for the construction of the elements of the information society in the Republic of Croatia and for the inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the construction of a European and global information society. Public fundamental registers and authentic data shall be determined, the obligation of public sector institutions, the use of data from the basic registers without the right to request such data from citizens or business entities shall be determined. All of these will ensure the application of the principle only once and digitally as part of the administrative discharge of citizens and business entities and thus a prerequisite for the operation of a state without paper. The Government of the Republic of Croatia firmly advocates and creates assumptions for the life of the vision of the modern public administration in the sense of waiting for the use of modern information communication technology to be one of the main means of achieving the main objectives of the efficiency of the state administration. These objectives relate to an intensive and effective transition to a new generation of open, flexible, interactive administration system, aimed at providing advanced services to the user through the use of modern technologies and related business systems at local, regional, national and European level. The relevant technologies implementing various strategies before the Government of the Republic of Croatia require that they focus on the services needed for citizens and then on delivering these services in a more inefficient way. Further reading could be done, the preferred thing would be to read the whole law, which is those 23 articles with which the state itself undertakes to arrange public administration in electronic form and to establish a single information infrastructure at all levels of the state. It seems to me, or I am convinced that at this point it is practically impossible to see all the positive repercusions that will result from the full application of this law if and when it is adopted. From the point of view of the liberals among other numerous repercussions, it is primarily a reduction in the role of the state and a reduction of the state's involvement in citizens' personal lives. The second, no less important consequence of the adoption of this law is simply to cut down on corruption in this administratively close encounter between state and citizens and business entities. By applying state information infrastructure, i.e. by realising e-Croatian and e-Citizens, these same citizens will become much more free. And only free citizens and citizens can be creative, innovative and entrepreneurial. Only free individuals or individuals free from fear can build their dreams, can realize personal happiness. And a large group of entrepreneurs make up a happy, advanced, innovative, modern society. This bill is certainly one of the laws that can do so in large part and secure it. Finally, I ask the Ministry of Administration to prepare a law for second reading as soon as possible to go into full application as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78745	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78746	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are discussing a law that, at first glance, would be more of a technical nature, so state information infrastructure, but basically it's a law that solves or talks about how the state administration should function. Even we discussed it here in the Parliament as both parent and only, as the parent board and the Committee on Information and Media. Although this is certainly the subject of work, or how it should be done, that is, how the work of the state administration should look in the future. And that's what I'm gonna talk about right now and that's the key. The very fact that even from the law of this is that the citizens more when this law comes in and all assumptions are made for it won't have to come from the counter to the counter to get the papers, the ones already owned by another body of public administration, is revolutionary, really very important. It is a real reform, although often stalled, says there is no reform in Croatia, this must be one reform move and an important reform of the work of the state administration, the entire public administration. Of course it won't go easy, it'll create huge and difficulty because it's getting into something that's been built for decades and that's the untouchability of bureaucracy, their way of working, that they're right, they're power, they can do whatever they want, make up rules, procedures, and so on. That's what's going to have to break and what this law is making assumptions about that happening. He's actually putting things upside down, and that's why it's gonna be hard. Because so far, although it should be that the public administration is in the position of citizens to be given, it always seemed different in fact that it turns out that the citizens were in the service of the public administration, that they were there to carry papers instead, that from one counter to another, from one counter to another, to justify the purpose of the existence of that official, to someone who worked. And of course they are still inventing the procedure simply, citizens have worked more to satisfy some of their procedures necessary, unnecessary, than to solve the real problem of citizens. Now this makes it possible for things to really turn upside down, to finally have the public administration in office as citizens. Of course it will create, I say problems because often we've all been sometimes able to come from a counter to a counter, we see how it works. Well, I often get the feeling that these officers are just living up to it, they're happy when they find something else to bring, when something's wrong, it's almost bordering on sadism. To enjoy getting someone back, he has to bring back some paper, he's got to fix something, he's got to bring back something else from the other office, or he doesn't have to. So people were just wasting their time, losing their nerve, and someone else was almost experiencing it. It is said here in the law that this law requires additional funds in the budget, so it is also worth it. Because how much savings, direct savings, it's really almost immeasurable. Just imagine that the simplest confirmation of how much a man, a maltene man, must take the day off to exorcise the most ordinary piece of paper he won't have to do anymore. He's got to go to five, six counters he won't have to go to anymore. He's making a mess in town, wasting his time, etc. It was a series of examples here. Of course, when we pass the law, it doesn't mean we'll change practice, but we have to insist on it. And now we have some laws that clearly prescribe, for example, the I.D. Law clearly states that the I.D. is evidence and citizenship and residence. But not a small number of cases today, when individual, not individual, but most of the service requires that you bring in a copy of your ID card, housekeeping, beliefs about your place of residence, although these are really unnecessary things because there are all these things on your ID card, even though the I.D. Law has already decided that it is both evidence and the other and the third. But it's often required. So, it's going to take this law except that it's going to create technical assumptions that things are changing it's creating assumptions that it's starting to change things in the heads and the citizens that know that the law is finally on their side, and that something is starting to change in the minds of those who do. Or to make another example almost not to believe. One Office of State Administration, the Office of Economy, is seeking in the process of issuing minimum technical conditions to a legal entity, says you can't get what's understandable while the one who previously used that space until he, therefore, ceases to be his, for him, minimum technical conditions. That's okay. However, when the request is made, he shall also request that the paper no longer be present, that it ceases to be subject to minimum technical conditions. So, the paper they're betraying. So to that extent goes the work or the unhappiness or self-will of the state administration to simply ask not only for paper to be brought by other offices, but also by the one who betrays it. I hope that these are just things that we're going to talk about like those that were in the past and that this law will make it really start to change the way we work, that resistance will be. Of course, when officials who are paid for it themselves are finally forced to obtain these papers will be difficult to obtain, they will resist, they will go to sick leave because they are not allowed to work, and some will probably need psychological help because they will simply lose that power that they are now world rulers, that they can act one way or another, that people can blackmail one way or another. It was simply their mental food they seemed to be experiencing. But all of this law will stop and we will finally stop with these phenomena and processes. Of course, there is another matter to be taken into consideration. So, and this is everything that we've seen so far if we've seen it wrong or it's not worth it doesn't mean that the law was bad or that someone at the top of the government the minister didn't see it well, doesn't take care of it, etc. Down in the field, so at the offices themselves, they make up rules that don't exist either in the law or in the sublaws. And here were the words that simply in one office is being dealt with like this, in another. So it's going to be necessary after what we do to bring in new steps that will be binding that you can't in one office, in one city you have to work like this, and in the other you need five other documents. It'll have to be arranged. Well, even now, maybe even before this law comes into force, it's working on it. I once said in a joke I needed to maybe open up a counter that could be both in electronic form or in any way that all of these nebuloses or nonsense that we have in the state administration can be reported in one place so we can see what kind of nonsense appears, what everything, how all our officers behave, that we simply put it in one place and that it starts to change and stop. Because the law is good, the law will certainly create assumptions that things change. But in order for things to change, people have to start changing, and that's going to go very hard, maybe even harder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78747	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first one came to me, the gurjitsu twilight, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78748	Thank you very much. I almost said hello. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Jelusic. At the beginning of your debate, you said it was one of the important reform laws that would get better and better. Personally, I think it would be very good if it were in function I don't know the day after tomorrow, but it won't be. But this won't solve anything, or unemployment, or the inertness of the government, or anything. Both you and I, my colleague Jelusic, were or were part of it, I do not speak as parliamentary representatives in the service as civil servants, or local officials. And we know very well that all those people who work there, and now back two years there's an awful lot more than there have been. In one chair, almost four of us could sit together. It's not their fault, it's the leaders' fault. There are very service officers. However, you know, officials are sometimes asked by mouth to do what is not appropriate at all. Well, you should make assumptions that a law like this is truly enforceable, that it is good and that it is in the service of our citizens. I would be interested after this first reading when there will be a second reading and what are the preconditions if you know it, yet you are from a party in power when it will be over and when will we be able to serve the team? Now, if you can answer that for me, or I'll write it down in writing, that's what I'm curious about. I think that's what the citizens are interested in, too. And it's not nice here in the Parliament that we all make noises to civil servants, officials in local self-government, management. It's not everyone's fault, it's not the overworked and overworked ones. Well, they didn't get a job on their own. Someone hired them there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78749	The replica matches Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78750	Comrade twilight, exactly not all men, all officers are the same and not all are bad. That's right, I didn't even say they were all, but that's a good part of them doing the right thing, we'll probably agree on that. But you know how it goes, like at school, we all deal with bad students and talk about them at parent meetings and not about good ones, and here we talk about those who do bad things to change. Those who do well will not be touched. To commend them is to the maximum of what we can do. But you know what? They're also paid to do well. But those who do not do well are also paid as well as those who do good, and that is why it is fair and just to force them to do the same. So, you said this law wouldn't solve anything, that's exactly what you said. He'll do a lot of work. He's making huge assumptions that he's finally made, so I said turn things upside down that the public administration is really starting to be in the service of citizens and doing things differently. And so far, the Administrative Procedure Act has prescribed that you cannot be asked by an official for one piece of paper if another public-legal body has one. But of course it wasn't applicable because it wasn't related to the data registers, and it wasn't even a legal obligation to do it. Now there will be a legal obligation that they must have and, as far as I know, most of it is already ready to function as far as the technical side is concerned. Therefore, when this law is passed I think the good part will already be able to function immediately in this way, and those who have no registers made at all or who are not adequate have two years to do so. Therefore, within two years, the complete public sector should be informed and connected. But you don't have to wait for the people for two years, what's ready but tomorrow can work and it needs to work. And I hope that this really is a reform shift because it will really reform the state administration and make it work the way we want it to.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78751	A new replica, respected Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78752	Thank you very much. Col. Jelusic, you say the law will solve a lot of things, but I am interested in whether to ask for less documentation than it is now? If it's going to need the same documentation, then I don't see any problems solved. And it's a practice that makes problems solveable or insolvent. The current practice shows that the public administration is making the most of the discrimination in the Croatian people because it is so up-to-date in certain environments that it is spotlessly solving the matter, in the same day it solves everything in a city or in a municipality and in a city it does not solve the same problem for 30 days. Is it logical to get a driver's license in one police department within 3 hours after a request is filed with all documents and the other one has to wait 30 days? It doesn't make sense! It's not an orderly state, if that's the case. Oh, that's right. For example, a person for many years on sick leave and was eventually brought by the commission a powerful solution to disability and early retirement, not for 3.4 years at work. The Peace Department is waiting a month and a half to reach a pension solution and is sending that invalid to the employer's burden that month and a half or two differences because he can't pay his pension but from the day of the issue of the solution. And how will the employer... When she's incompetent to work, she can't even come to work? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Instead of solving these cases within 48 hours. No, it's equally like it's something casual, like it's not about one fate. But people stay 2 months without a pension, an empty walk they have. It is a practice that will solve and bring advantages, of course, with the prerequisite that the law is good. But I can't see if there are no deadlines and procedures that will help a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78753	The replica matches Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78754	Dear fellow Maric, are you asking if this law will reduce the number of documents citizens have to bring? Yeah, I'm sure of it for two reasons. First, what really more paper-shaped documents will normally not need but will have it only on the screen, so often they will not have to list it, but simply have it. So, they'll see him and move on. The second reason you know now is when the service, the officials, the public administration, when they have to obtain these documents from other bodies, will also shorten the list of those they need. Now they've invented both necessary and unnecessary because they're... about the citizen walking from the counter to the counter and bringing it to them. Now that they have to do it themselves, they're certainly not going to ask for it because they're going to have to get it themselves. Anyway, here's the thing, I've recently had a chance, so when you're talking about ID cards, driver's licenses, etc., recently I've changed my driver's license, I've been waiting in line for as long as it took, when I've come to order everything I've done in 10 minutes and got my driver's license and I've done it, and I've just come tomorrow because it just had to be done technically, I've come to pick her up tomorrow. I.D.'s too. And I didn't have to carry any paper with me. You don't have to do anything. With your hands in your pockets, you come with a check. Therefore, you don't need to bring a housekeeper, or a birth certificate, anything. Why? Because they already have it and they're already tied up. Therefore, just as that part works, the entire state administration should also function, connecting data from courts, and the IRS and police, or pension and health and all other things. It's started, I'm optimistic that this will continue, and this law will oblige.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78755	The last replica, the esteemed Head of the Sun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78756	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We are a little in the virtual world, I will remind you that the strategy has already been written since 2009 for 2012, so the Strategy for the Development of e-Government. In 2013, as if we were in some virtual world so we didn't hear any news from the e-world, that's what I'd call it. And according to what your colleague Maric has already replicated to you, so no one guarantees to the citizens, so to us users of services, that we will have less need for documents that we will have to submit because, of course, this law is not possible to define. So we need to change a whole series of regulations to prevent the accumulation of documentation, and today enough has been discussed to actually say what kind of piles of paper we need to come up with. It wouldn't be good to generalize employees, so as we call them officials, they generally don't do their job well. I disagree with that assessment, there are valuable people who do their job well, so I kind of want to draw attention to my colleagues that it's not appropriate to talk about them in this way. However, it is clear to all of us that a transformation must take place between providers and users of services, but this will certainly not be possible, I am sorry that there are no colleagues in Hajdukovic, he was talking about it, so it will not be possible without permanent technological renewal. You know that very well, the technology of antiquity practically from month to month and let's be realistic someone will need to calculate how much it's going to cost. So, what we can do, pull the maybe parallel, the colleagues will know who are working in e-Croatia, so that's the e-government in neighbouring Slovenia that works very well, who have short procedures, but what I repeat again we have to do is reduce the need for documentation so that we can apply in the virtual world so that we don't get into a situation. I'm going to end up, Mr. Vice President, so we don't get into a situation where we now have virtual clerks and new virtual barriers. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78757	The replica matches Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78758	Dear fellow Glavak, I didn't generalize, though I didn't even put in the same basket of all the officers, not everyone does as well as we do here in the Assembly, so even the officials don't all work as well, some do a little better, some do a little bit worse. But I've said and we're talking about those bad phenomena, the bad processes and the worse ones to change those who work well, so they're paid. As far as you're concerned, you said if there's any guarantee that this is really going to happen, is this law going to come to life? Well, you may find this government inconclusive, but I don't consider it inconclusive, and when it comes to this business, she's seriously going into it. Therefore, this government has serious intentions to reform the work of state administration, public administration and this serious intention and is sufficiently guaranteed that something will happen. I said just now that in some segments of the public administration, serious shifts have already been made, that they do not have to carry papers according to it, and this law right now enables or obliges all others to do so, those who are not and that, to form their databases, their registers and to apply. Therefore, the guarantee is quite clear from the intention of this law, at the end of the day I hope that this government will continue to exercise the executive power in the next term and will continue to enforce this law, and if whoever does not give God the chance to come to another government or perhaps yours, you will not change such a good law either.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78759	We're continuing an individual debate. It's Drazenko Pandek's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78760	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So first of all, here I join the praises of this bill, which is finally referred to in the procedure. Applying the principle of eGovernment and paper-free administration, I would therefore consider the application as a condition without which it cannot be achieved primarily more effectively, faster but also cheaper state administration. This is a condition without which it is not possible to achieve greater transparency and transparency in the work of the public administration, but fundamentally that this administration performs its most important function, to be an efficient and fast service to citizens and the business sector, but also to other public bodies when we talk about their mutual communication. This law is a real step towards this goal and represents a significant evolution. Certainly the establishment of public registers deserves all the praises as said. We have witnessed so many times that solving certain administrative or judicial matters is significantly slowed down because certain bodies are waiting for data from other bodies' records. These data are so far sought by written means, so it takes time until the request is sent, until it is received, until the data is found, while the dispatch reply is written, while it is delivered, etc. etc. When this system sums up these data supplies that took a minimum week before will now be executed in a few minutes. That's where we can even talk about the revolution. It should certainly be commended for the establishment of a project of e-Citizens to be used to display, as stated in the text of the law, information on public services and information and documents related to the implementation of policies from a section of a public body. I would like to express my hope that this system will, in addition to showing this information as soon as possible, be able to be used, for example, to perform certain administrative tasks by citizens, so let's say when I need a new ID card or driver's license through that portal and some identification device, I can request that document with the necessary documentation on the electronic form I own. The banks are already functioning that way for many years. So here we can use Internet banking and transfer, if of course we have, millions of kunas literally invest in funds, pay bills. I really don't see why he couldn't ask for a personal, new ID card like that. They already have fingerprints in the MUP, my signature, and now they'll be able to see into all public registers, pictures and other necessary information can be delivered in electronic form. And when it's all over, but that's already what I'll be so far away or not, but I would personally like to have the document delivered to me by means of a safe delivery which I would very much like to make, such a personal delivery and pay. Now, in the case of the loss of personal or the need to produce new documents, you must unfortunately take the day off, spend the hours waiting throughout Croatia, these are hundreds and thousands of hours lost in the ranks. And this law will make it easier to obtain a document, it will save thousands of hours of work, but here's my contribution to some debate on progress in the future. About what I said, there are already technical possibilities, and here I encourage our experts in the e-Croatian office to run solutions in this direction because every kuna I would say invested in improving the system in this sense, the introduction of e-government generates multiple benefits both for the state and for the citizens. So you really don't have to wait much longer than to put further pressure on the acceleration of the rhythm in that direction. The introduction of this proposal states that this law lays down the conditions for the effective implementation of the General Administrative Procedure Act, i.e. the ZUP, and that is indeed the case. Although Article 60 is an article. ZUP enabled... I think it has been an exceptional case so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't even know if it's within the meaning of Article 75. The ZUP used the possibility of electronic communication but I guess it was also more of an exception. This will now, thanks to this law, be possible to a much greater extent. The implementation of Article 94 of the same Law of the ZUP, which sets out the delivery by electronic means, will also be possible, but it should be pointed out that it is not entirely. According to the ZUP, the decision to be issued in the administrative procedure must still contain the signature and seal of the public legal authority. I think it's really matured time to allow the solution to be made in electronic form or in the form of an electronic document because there seems to be no particular argument why it can't be done now. Of course, we should put a classic form but I think there is no obstacle to getting it in electronic form where there is a need. The law also stipulates the obligation to comply with existing public registers in view of... two years as well as the transfer of official records to electronic form within that time limit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There I really need to ask or suggest that we see if there are any possibilities for that deadline to be shortened at all. Ideally, it would be possible to move to a maximum of 18 months, that might be possible, I say, of course, office experts have a much better picture in the real situation, but hopefully it can give an initiative to invest additional effort and resources, and I believe that we would find all kinds of support in that. If there are opportunities he would give as an initiative to consider the gradual introduction of the system into work. There are probably different readinesss in various bodies to implement this law in practice, so here it may be possible that depending on the completion of the work on the application of this law on a particular body system is being put into operation succesively. There is also a variety of preparedness of course there have already been speeches at the personal level for the implementation of new solutions. It might be a proposal to consider forming special teams of people who are able and willing to work in a new environment compared to those who are not and then properly valorize it or reward it. Speaking of this subject, I simply need to talk again about the need for this principle of eGovernment to be fully implemented in our system. In doing so, I think of the full achievement of the administration without paper when we speak in the management of the case and in the communication between the public authorities. Clearly, in communication with citizens must leave this possibility of paper communication, but on that... The level between public authorities I think we need to go to the solution that everything goes in electronic form. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some parts of the private sector have long since moved to such a principle in their business. Today, all items are still in the state administration in paper form. The simplest letter usually travels from one office to another day, everything is delivered on foot, it's simply on a longer term unacceptable. In this regard, technical solutions and possibilities I think are available. Further efforts are needed and additional resources should be invested in this direction. There's clearly a great resistance structure, and that's what it was about, there's no doubt that they were costing and unprepared for change, but that resistance just has to be broken, there's no other one. Why? Because it seems to me a great credit to the fact that we stand badly on international comparative competitiveness tests can be greatly appreciated by slow, non-transparent and inefficient administration. Of course we can't attract investment to compete with, say, Finland or South Korea when it takes three seconds for them to deliver letters between two offices and our administration three days. If we want to get to an object from the archives, our clerk needs a day or two, and the one in South Korea for a minute or two. The private sector is learning that calculation and that logic quickly because it will otherwise fail. I think the public sector has to jump on that train as soon as possible, of course, because modern society is not only competing with companies but also competing with countries, and we're standing here in this field of efficiency of the administration, I'd say not exactly the best. He would therefore appeal to our office experts to initiate and live up to the application and to fully apply the principle of eGovernment in the work of the entire public administration of public authorities. I think it's a condition without which we can't if we really want to improve the work of our administration. The proposal for this law should be supported because it represents a very real step in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78761	I thank my colleague Pandek. His right to hold a ten-minute debate now gets a respected representative, Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78762	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to do in a brief debate, and I'm going to make my point, which is why I think this legal proposal should be supported. At the time when the first car was produced, then a law was passed that limited the speed of the car to 5km/h because it explained that any other speed would be dangerous to the human organism. The fact that there are legal solutions to that was more here than just speeches that slow things down that could otherwise be far faster, and in that sense I see this law. Is this legislative proposal speeding up processes, and what is more important he is indeed and this is mentioned here a prerequisite for implementing reforms that are absolutely necessary in our systems. We've been witnessing here lately and reforming the judiciary, reforming the state administration where it's afraid of citizens, here today it's said here it's afraid of citizens that it's going to have to go 50km or 100km to some kind of document, which I think is exactly the legal proposal to deny and says that a particular document can get practically on the table at home with some technology. Technology is the degree and development of technique today allows this. It may not be mentioned here, but in addition to the availability of the data, it is important to store and store them, and I think one of these systems will also ensure better and safer storage and storage of all data. For example, we can see how important it is actually that there are systems where data can be exchanged because many diagnosiss are still being put on the basis of certain experiences because you take on my Virovitica-Podrava County 84 thousand residents do not have a lot of cases of a particular disease but in some other environments there are such diseases that often occur and then simply in the databases you can find this. Of course, it is also important here in the security areas as well as in the areas of preventing the abuse of the system to software solutions for more dimensional search, of course authorized to do so, authorized to do so, can come up with important data that can then help any detection of criminals in other areas. Important information is that at the end of 2012 broadband Internet was available 94.2% of households in the Republic of Croatia. Some average was always 95.2%. So the technological predispositions have been achieved. And what I have to say here and it was here and such skeptical thinking is the machine and the machine teaches people to use and it's not, I don't think that in that sense it's going to be a problem especially because all young generations go through the teaching of information and in that sense it's going to be known to serve. The e-Citizens project wants to, so the project wants to enable citizens to communicate with the public sector in one place. Whether it's a unique administrative place in a real or virtual world. So either setting up a kiosk, either at home from your own, from your own personal computer. What is crucial, therefore, is the availability of information to all citizens and portals that will combine information on public services. Safe access to electronic services using electronic identity, of course data exchange must take place through security channels and there are already practices in the world and these are more... the means of lending. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's where I think if users are using all the instructions that these dangers are actually very small. Otherwise, the theft of the identity of electronic and abuse occurs mainly or in most cases by disrespecting the instructions of the users themselves or e-payment or other means of communication. The purpose of the State Information Infrastructure is to ensure the availability of the collected authentic data of the basic registers to all public sector bodies. Therefore, the law ensures the mandatory use and provision of data from the basic registers that are then connected. Here the register is compromised as a concept that connects the technical and administrative concept. Because the entries were originally created as a list and organized table or are books, nuts, eyewitnesses, records, catastrises. And here it is already said that this legislative proposal is the basis for creating conditions for the functioning of a state without paper. Therefore, the purpose is to ensure quality communication with the administration of this e-Citizen project to ensure quality communication with citizens. And of course here respects, it should be respected, that's already said, the protection of personal data and the right to access information. The interoperability of public sector information systems is called two words interoperability infrastructures. It is therefore important to enable these systems to streamline these data, so that it should be equal to software solutions and that the same data can be used from several systems. In addition to the system of e-Citizens, the systems of e-Regulations and e-Government or functional part-rounding of individual bodies of public administration are extremely important. Finally, it is only necessary to say that this legislative proposal should be supported in accordance with all of the above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78763	Thank you. Now we'll hear another debate from a respected colleague, Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78764	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, co-workers. Well, I'm pleased to actually be able to join all those people who support the adoption of this law as something that should speed up the system of integration of all the data that the state administration has at its disposal. And I hope that this will really contribute to a better service for all our citizens, a better approach and what is most important to a faster and more efficient, faster and efficient administration. But that raises a few questions behind it and I will try to through my debate to base myself on solutions related to the very implementation of this law. Not entering the program, so the English term is authentication, authentication, and we translate authentication, so whether it's fine unnecessary, it's necessary, but it's so with a lot of expressions. What you might see about it should be considered to change eventually. But since you started using it with fi, then it's actually probably something that won't change. At first, though, there are some things that are later defined to result in tremendous effort, in fact, that need to stand out from the implementation of such a system. The first is the fact that this law acknowledges that the state administration is now not capable, it is not, it cannot be able to enforce this regulation, i.e. Unite all data under the direct management of the competent ministry. Because we already have the State Administration System Act under which officials are required to obtain information on which state authorities keep records. What is, something mentioned on the board, and it doesn't happen in practice. So, you behind this whole set means a measure, because the law is only one step, after which you should follow the regulation, you have to have a clear strategy that you want to achieve through implementation, integration of that system and you need to be able to force the state administration, all the services, all the ministries to integrate their systems. What's the question, we've talked about it on the board is how much it costs. Some integration processes have been launched, but a project of integration of different systems in the world has been launched. I think that's exactly why I'm saying it because it says no additional resources are needed in the state budget. It's probably the funds provided for by a certain state institution, you probably had it planned. But otherwise, it's the most expensive project in the world. For this you need army solutions architects and developers that integrate different systems and connect them into a centralised system. So it's in the world perhaps the most expensive process when it comes to information. The second thing that is actually the most important and follows this law is the adoption of this special regulation. Therefore, everything is important hidden in this Article 4 in the second paragraph, since this will only be defined by the Government's regulation. What we need to open up a debate about and what I think should be defined and very explicitly to make so-called. Open interface standards. I mean, I'd like the same answer to that question, because if that doesn't define a potential risk of... by the big players who will naturally offer everything, their platforms will offer free of charge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are the biggest players of Microsoft, Oracle, HP, Siemens. Later, you can't do anything without them. So the damage in that part can be extremely inconclusive. Therefore, it is very important in my personal opinion that these interfaces be opened. The third important thing is about the days of the center that don't know what day centres are and where they have to be. What I would suggest is that all the given centres included in the infrastructure, means through an additional proposal, since the first reading is prescribed that they must be located on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and that all data in the day centres must be encrypted before writing on permanent media. So, these are two very clear ones, I would dare say remarks but also suggestions. Now, when it comes to the central system, then there's some sort of, actually my question that I don't understand until the end, and it should definitely be done with whether authentic data will be copied into the central system or will allow the central system to make these authentic data in its locations available in real time. I sincerely hope that this second proposed solution is because in practice it can go one or two days to synchronization. However, in a particular complex procedure, no one is guaranteed to you, nor is it a guarantee that synchronisation of the data itself will happen so that it is something that should be explicitly defined. And I think that's something that would be better anyway. I hope that the second proposed solution, therefore, is to inform itself, i.e. The central system is the one that will draw data in real time. What I would define as another problem is that what I pointed out on the board is that it is very clear to have a clear strategy that ICT promotion of the state administration wants to do in the state administration system in Croatia. This includes the ICT Development Strategy in the Republic of Croatia. You're aware of that, there's probably a lot of work going on. But what is particularly necessary is that we have an action plan on what can be done and what can be done. Many things, because without this ICT development strategy we simply won't know where we are going and many things that as a country should actually integrate depending on many business processes within the state administration's own bodies. Therefore, the authorities themselves must adapt their business processes. We also discussed this on a committee like the Ministry of the Interior and some other institutions. That is why it is very important to me that you know very clearly what to do in what time and that the result can be delivered in some real time. The adaptation to the menu appears to be defined by the last Article 26 allowing the system itself to be adjusted within 2 years. I believe that through the debate and in this first reading, and then through committees, it will define itself. It might not be a bad thing to reduce the procedure to actually encourage all state administration bodies to really engage in this process, because I think it is most important for the user and it is a citizen of the Republic of Croatia to deliver the result and deliver it to him. And what I'd like to mention is that taking care of these things that I said, and especially with the open interface, I would really like to see these proposals and initiatives that I'm now talking about through the debate, because it's about the first reading of the installation in the final legislative proposal to be more precisely defined and to have reason to hope and to believe that the first results will be seen by the beginning of next year, so in 2015. And here I am, as most probably colleagues, following a little debate, may have gone in part and in some wrong direction of the Data Protection Act. I don't think that's the primary focus of this law. The primary focus is the integration of data that should be referenced, so they need to be relevant. And as much as the IRS itself, I'm going to give you just one example can happen in the central data system when we've already talked about certain errors c, c, c. So in one letter, which is relevant, which is the real data. If we're going to use the fact that the real information is the one that has the user who pays the tax, then the real data is in the IRS. It is therefore extremely important that these things be clearly and unequivocally written, i.e. that the data be synchronised which will, of course, enable and reduce the possibility of certain and abuse and, on the other hand, provide an adequate more efficient service for all citizens. Of course there's an important matter of security, and here's some of these remarks and suggestions I'm really appealing to you and I wish these things could be incorporated into the final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78765	Thank you. The last minutes of this debate belong to the Minister of Administration, Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78766	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I would like to thank all the MPs and MPs who took part in the debate. All proposals will be considered and I believe that we will be able to prepare the final bill relatively quickly and send it to another reading so that we can begin to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78767	Thank you. We're moving on to the next item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78768	Final, no, but the Proposal for a Law on State Information Infrastructure, first reading, P.Z. No. 653. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, a proposal for a Law on State Information Infrastructure is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions are addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's to suggest a conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 75 votes in favour, 23 votes against, 2 abstentions, have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78769	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. It is - Final proposal of the Association Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 485 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on War Veterans. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposal's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Minister of Management, the Honorable Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78770	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is a second reading, so the Final Proposal of the Law on Associations, based on a debate held sometime in October last year. So, compared to the existing law that was passed in 2001, I will say what are the problems, newspapers and shortcomings, etc. It is, firstly, that the existing law contained insufficiently clear provisions on the management of associations and bodies of the association, the association of associations with alliances, the membership of the assembly and the duration of the mandate, the acquisition of the distribution of assets and the pursuit of economic activities as well as the inaccurate control provisions, the complex winding-up and erasure procedure, the under-developed conditions of granting financial support to public-source associations, the lack of transparency of work when using funds from public elections. This in practice leads to different interpretations of the unequal application of the provisions of the law. So we have a challenge to the regularity of the assembly, the expiry of the mandate, the list of members, the implementation of supervision and the absence of mechanisms for implementation or not to conduct the liquidation procedure, and then we meet with regard to subsidity, and we also encounter different practices in the second-degree procedure, i.e. the different practice of administrative courts. Also, according to the existing law, the paper lays down the principles of the activities of the association, the principle of independence and the public of the democratic structure, the non-profit and the principle of free participation in public life. We have expanded the circle of persons who can be founders of the association and we have defined the way of membership of minors and adult persons deprived of their business skills. It also expanded the mandatory content of the statutes with the aim of facilitating the work of the managing body and increasing transparency of the work of the associations. A special emphasis was placed on the public and on the greater range of data entered in the Register of Associations and the Register of Foreign Associations. It is foreseen that, through a link to the Register of Non-profit Organisations, reports on the financial operations of the association with the prescribed documentation are made publicly available in the Register of Associations, which should greatly facilitate the financing of associations from public sources and contribute to the transparency of their activities for the common good. The provisions on assets and financial operations of associations have been thoroughly developed with regard to the definition of the property, under which the conditions of the association may carry out economic activity but also stronger supervision if the association carries out economic activity. The funding of programmes and projects of interest for the general good from public sources, namely the state budget, the budget of the units of local and regional self-government and EU funds, has also been arranged. The provisions on liability for the obligations of the association, the responsibilities of persons authorised to represent, for damage done to the association or association to third parties in such a way as to comply with the general rules of liability for damages. The issues of status changes have been regulated, competences for the exercise of supervision are further specified, the process of liquidation and erasure of associations is further specified. Also, important developments have been made in the normative framework for the activities of associations, ensuring greater transparency and public action and thus greater space for strengthening citizens' confidence in the work of associations. And through the greater public and transparency of work, there will be a prerequisite for primary supervision of the work of the association by the members themselves. The new provisions on the termination of the existence of liquidation and erasure will facilitate the removal of associations from the register, thus giving the public more accurate insight into the actual number and activity of associations and the dynamics of establishment and termination of existence. I would also like to emphasise that the proposal for this law has been widely consulted with the public interested in the period from 18 December 2012 to 18 January 2013 and a public debate that could also be followed through video streaming on 1 February 2013. And several thematic meetings were held because of discussions on specific issues and views. According to the draft law, therefore, the draft final draft law has been better regulated, and according to the observations of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee from the transitional and final provisions is deleted part of the provision under which Article 43 of the now applicable law, the provision on so-called Union property. Certain provisions have been reformed in a way that leaves room for autonomous decision-making, only to suggest that certain issues should be resolved through the statute and to facilitate action. Also in the debate in the first reading, the largest number of remarks related to the status of sports associations. We also include sports associations with this law, but in one of the articles we allow the possibility of special legislation to be prescribed in a different way by the restoring ministry, i.e. the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Resort Ministry. Also, we will not be able to say for Friday but next Friday about the amendments that have arrived and which will arrive during the debate. And here I call upon the representatives to support, after the debate, the final proposal of the Association Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78771	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the SDP club, a respected representative, Drazenko Pandek, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78772	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, we at the SDP club want to commend the fact that the competent ministry has conducted a very extensive and comprehensive public debate on the proposal for an Association Act with an interested public. As can be seen in this proposal, a large number of objections made in the public debate have been respected and they have become an integral part of the law. The need for a quality public debate was great in this case because, of course, the role of associations is primarily in solving certain social problems. They are very important in controlling the state administration, co-creation of public policies and provision and social services. They very often compensate and jump into an area where there are certain social needs which, by the way, to call this institutional government sector, is not met. Therefore, we find it important once again to point out that this extremely important process of public debate was extremely well-defined. This 2002 legal text was clearly made up by remarks, and the course of time and the needs of practice have led to improved solutions so far. And this bill as we find ourselves from the SDP club represents a significant improvement compared to the solutions of 13 years ago. Thus far, the law has not known any part of the business ability that has been equated with full business incompetence. This deficit is now corrected and with the publicly approved written consent of the legal representative, that is, the founder of the association will be able to be a full-time person deprived of his or her business ability to take actions relating to personal and property rights and a minor with 14 years of age. Also, any natural and legal person may become a member of an association in accordance with the law and the statutes. It could have been before, in this sweating case, just a commercially capable natural person. In order to point out that there is a certain discrepancy with Article 1, I think it is a certain error in normisation and I think that some associations have already made comments on this, so I hope that it may be as an amendment to the Government, the amendment to the Government is corrected. Furthermore, this law lays down the principle of the operation of the association as a principle of independence, the public, democratic structure, non-profits, the principle of free participation in public life. This has not been the case so far, and that fact could have led to problems in interpreting concrete legal relations. How so far, for example. It did not specifically mention the principle of democratic structure that could lead to life situations that several members, say administrations despotically manage an association made up of several hundred members or a few thousand, which was naturally ridiculous, but was happening in practice. Certain sublimeness has also been observed in the provisions on the statutes of the association so that the mandatory content of the statutes is now extended. In practice, there have been doubts about the economic activities of the associations, and we should now welcome the better normation of this matter by prescribing that economic activities must already be listed in the Statute if they are carried out by society. In the debate which preceded the adoption of the law before in the debate on the application of the law, up until now a position has emerged that perhaps associations should not be allowed economic activity, but we from the SDP club support the view that such activities should be allowed to be carried out, but that a certain order should be introduced in this area in which this provision is also welcomed. Further, in Article 31, this topic is more detailed, contributing to this goal of a greater order in the area that we certainly support. We are in the SDP club with a larger introduction of order, we are also in a special article that regulates the assets of the association, which determines the objectives of this property. And so far, there has been some sublimeness, I repeat, that this article will introduce this normisation, so what makes up the property and for which the objectives of this property can be used, we find that this will introduce a certain order into a previously unsettled area. Each person should welcome a certain eased normation of the provisions on the name of the association where these provisions are somewhat liberalised. Also, provisions that better regulate the management of associations and bodies of the association especially in relation to the congregation. The provisions on the obligations of persons authorised to represent the association are now much better and more precise, which will also contribute to the findings of a greater order and easier regulation of association-related relations. Again, as a certain introduction of order and as necessary, we evaluate and support these provisions in the law on the way of public insurance of the activities of the association, the provisions on the selection and recall of the liquidator, the responsibilities for the obligations of the association, the responsibilities of the persons for representing the association and members of the association for damages, the status changes issues, the more precise normation of the liquidation procedures and the erasure of associations as conditions for the availability of assets of the association. There was a need for further normation, clearly to leave a certain freedom to the associations but in this relationship it was necessary to better regulate what I think the promoter did in a rather good way. In this context, the provisions governing the financing of programmes and projects of interest to the general welfare of public elections should be highlighted. In this area, we were convinced that these legal provisions would, however, reduce the potential accidental use of funds or even possible abuses. The rationalisation of the principle of economics will help us to determine that the process of termination of the association will also be possible under a shortened procedure. a large number of organizations do not exist anymore, there are no assets, there are only members on paper and there is really no need to carry out the liquidation procedure as if the association ceases to work which has both a functioning membership and property and where the decommissioning procedure is clearly specified by law. This is how this bill represents a significant improvement compared to the existing text of the 2001 law, as it resolves a number of objections to the current law that has been published in practice, as a comprehensive public debate has been carried out during the adoption of the law, which is otherwise important, and in this area it is particularly important that the SDP Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78773	I thank my colleague Pandek. The Independent Grubisic and Kajin Club also applied for the debate, there are none in the hall and they lose the right to discuss this topic. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, the respected Branko Vuksic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78774	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'll really be very brief on this law. The law makes some improvements, but the law has not respected everything we have proposed in the debates, and it seems to me that it leads to the improvement of this law. It seems to me that the HDZ Club has also asked me if he has submitted an amendment, to a provision that provides that three citizens can form an association. At that time, as I recall, the minister promised to respect that remark and would likely install a second reading of the provision to require 7 or 10 people, respectively, of the Republic of Croatia. It seems to me to be a failure and that the associations will continue to appear like mushrooms after the rain if we leave that provision. Is she particularly restrictive? No, but it gives as much seriousness as it does to set up associations. Now there are 50,000 registered associations, only 800 of them deleted, and only 12500 of them have to submit a financial report, all other associations mean 32.5 thousand associations of livers and 32.5 thousand associations are questionable what they do and what they do. I don't think that's good, and it's not good that the state doesn't work, and even under the rules of the old law. It is good that the law foresees greater transparency of the work of associations, especially those used by public money. Now the question that has been asked and in the debate during the first reading, whether associations that use public money are NGOs, whether they are what we always say civil society associations that are independent of the government, whether they are independent of the government if they receive public money, and how public money is distributed in a way that is well known to be distributed public money. A series of articles more clearly determines and regulates the establishment, then legal position, action, the way associations can register and the way associations are deleted from the register of associations. There is a clearer definition of self-financing, accountability and supervision of the business of these associations. The Croatian Labour Club in its first reading advocated that sports associations should be exempted from the Proposal for Association Law. I remember then, Mr. Minister said that if the Associations of Sports Associations were regulated by some other law that then almost his ministry would have no business regarding the associations themselves. I think the specificity of sports associations deserves to be regulated by the Sports Act. It is clearly not recognized and not respected. It should be said that there would be no doubt of usefulness and the importance of associations, especially those fighting for the protection of human rights, the protection of freedom, the protection of the environment, the protection of nature, those associations that protect social rights and promote social rights, culture, sport, health culture, technical culture above them, only in moments when the status of the association or what we call the Association of Civil Society uses evil to sow money. We know no more nor will we advertise the people who abuse these associations, but the abuse of these associations is possible only because the state is not doing its job and because the state is not controlling and the work of the associations and because the state does not distinguish between the associations that promote sport and associations that deal with economic activity and their only goal is profit. I once again appeal to the ministry and the minister to respect some of the amendments and to pay particular attention to the provision, an article that continues to predict that there are enough three people for the establishment of the association. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78775	Thank you very much. Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78776	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Members, you have stated in your debate that the basis of this legislative regulation that will continue in this final draft of the law, which is that there will still be three founders of the association, will therefore contribute to the movement of the associations as mushrooms after the rain. Well, I personally don't think so because I think there will be fewer. So why? Because if the associations were to define whether their mission, i.e. content or money, were to be more important by now, then unfortunately, it has always been more important money so far. And then it happened that money was obtained from both private, public and civil sectors, and that money was eventually spent without any arguments, without any criteria. And what's worse without any control. Today, when we have set up many control systems, which is based not only on this law, but on many other laws, that if you misrepresent one travel order for 4,000 kunas now, then you go to jail for 6 months, then people will see that it really doesn't matter more money than they have to watch content, essence and mission. That's what I think is the introduction of order, the introduction of seriousness, and this law makes a huge contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78777	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78778	Dear counterpart Skvarić, it is a good thing to think whether three or more, three more members of more associations will be established or not. However, I refer to this last thesis that in six months prison will be punished by the one who misfulfilled the travel order, or let's say the darkening of 4,000 kunas. We know that people who blacked out the 20th, 30 thousand kunas don't go to jail, but goblets of potatoes for several hours and are still media stars. So I do not think that there is any control in Croatia and that the Croatian state will act according to what it says in this law. I repeat it a hundred times we're a state that doesn't respect its own laws, so they won't respect this one either.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78779	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78780	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister with fellow Members, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Freedom of association as one of the fundamental civil, political freedoms is necessary for the functioning of contemporary and pluralist democracies, and is guaranteed by many international documents, and of course by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of the Law on Associations in 2001 took a step forward in strengthening the work of associations, and laid the basis for the development of criteria, criteria and procedures for budgetary donations to projects and programmes of interest for the general good carried out by associations. When we talk about the interests that associations must pursue, I would like to stress that all members of the association must strive to create a new value, a value that is most often not material, and that is more difficult to perceive, but with software activities, create new social values and relationships and values that are often not easy to measure and thus justify continuous investment in slightly abstract terms such as knowledge level or level of consciousness, level of tolerance, improved relations or enhanced capacity. Of course, over more than a decade of law enforcement has seen a number of problems and difficulties in its application, which has led to a decision to approach the draft of the new Association Act after consulting the interested public, and, before us, the Final Proposal of the Association Act. What I would particularly point out, and that many proposals are respected and are incorporated into this law and transparency and the public that is defined, can indeed be said that many proposals are respected. But, of course, after all this and this law, there are many things that we have to settle for other special laws, special regulations, and not only the Parliament, but also the ministries that have to pass it. Just to talk about where it is already mentioned here that it is the Law on Sports, the Law on Trade and many, above all, tax laws that must comply with this law, or the work of the associations themselves. When we talk about the associations themselves and their mission even their mission, Article 4 has defined what associations are, i.e. their broad concept of association, which is essentially protection and commitment to the protection of human rights and freedoms, environmental protection and nature and sustainable development, and humanitarian, social, cultural, educational, scientific, sports, health, technical, information, professional or other beliefs or objectives. Really quite extensive. On the other hand, this whole activity must be that it is not contrary to the Constitution and the laws themselves. When we define this law ourselves and this final bill after all those public debates have been carried out and after respecting the opinions and views of our MPs, we can, however, highlight a number of important elements of this law. One point I would mention at the outset is that the fundamental principles of democracy are defined, that freedom of association is the foundation of civil and political freedoms so that it is left to be at least three founders and a minor from 14 years of age, of course with the certified consent of a legal representative or guardian. This law highlights the greater public work of associations and bringing the work of associations closer to the general public in order to strengthen citizens' confidence. That's the most important thing. Strengthening citizens' confidence that any activity must be transparent and any activity must be of particular benefit to the people themselves in the association and also benefit the wider community. When there is no transparency then there are many doubts, many problems that ultimately all that good will and good desire and good measure ultimately end the way it shouldn't be. What I would also mention is the transparency of the amount of funds from public sources. Sources for the work of the association may be at the level of their basic activities, may be from those private spheres and may also be from public sources. Public sources are, above all, the funds that are approved for their work by local self-government, regional, by the state or the resolution ministries. ... It is very important that this transparency of the use of funds that can be defined by law is that each association must be based on its quality programme and a project which must define their implementation must provide a report, what we have said to the local one, whether regional or national. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This report is then defined by not only the mayor and the mayor but also by the legislative authority as well as the city council exactly whether these funds are transparently and legally invested. Of course, there's a possibility that if it's not that those funds have to be returned. Although I always doubt if they are spent and if these are the associations we do not have, unfortunately, those opportunities to force the association or that we can return them. But well, the first step is there and one intention, good, honest is involved here. Here I would also mention the essential provisions of the new law, which are the provisions on the assets and financial operations of the association where they are thoroughly developed in terms of defining what the assets of the association do, under which the conditions of the association can carry out economic activity but also stronger supervision if the association carries out economic activity. The funding of programmes and projects of interest for general good from public sources has also been arranged, as we have said to the state budget, units of local, regional (regional) self-government, and also what is important from EU funds, which is very important because associations from all these levels have the opportunity to obtain funds from EU funds. And then there's the amount of these funds,...the funds certainly have one different legal regulation than I did this law and other laws in that part and implement it. In particular, I would mention a part of the financial business, especially as regards the performance of economic activity. Unfortunately, I have to say that many things are still in one single gray zone where they can be interpreted differently. In particular, it is interpreted differently from even the Tax Administration itself whether it is something that some association acquires income whether it is an act as their basic activity to invest in the development of such an association itself or whether it is the means which in some other way can be misused to invest in the acquisition of some property benefit both at the personal level and the acquisition of some property that will serve to carry out some kind of activity that is not the very purpose for part of the activities that it defines by the statutes of the association. And there really should be a lot more uniform, a lot of effort because what is the difference between associations, cooperatives, clusters or certain companies? From the example we have now is a very stretching term and I think we should make a lot more effort there. But this example, and the first attempt in that part, is highly commendable. What I would also like to mention is that these provisions on the termination of the existence of liquidation and erasure will also allow for easier erasure of associations from the Register of Associations. This will give the public more accurate insight into the actual number and activity of associations and the overall dynamics of the establishment and termination of the existence of associations in the Republic of Croatia. What needs to be done should be done in order in the Register of Associations that we will no longer have those 50,000 associations that are their own purpose without the ability to control. Defining the real purpose of their existence, that is to really reduce the level of existing large gaps between the number of registered and really active associations. All this must be understood as soon as possible to a reasonable extent. This law has good procedures and I only think that the state offices and administration if this procedure is applied in a year, the two will have a very realistic real state of affairs in the territory of Croatia. Of course, what I would point out is that even better registration control of the association would have to be more present and more even. For example, Article 46 correctly defines that an application for registration may be refused if the objectives and activities of the association are contrary to the Constitution or law. There are some things that aren't even in the whole area. For example, we have associations that are registered for the activity of providing water distribution services. These are associations that under the Law on the Communist Economy could not be, but they exist. And indeed what I said at the outset must be done to ensure that this part, too, controls the very registration of the association, must at one time certainly be speeded up and placed on one level of legality. Of course, at the end when we talk about infringements, it is said that, in any case, if someone did something wrong, what I said and I believe and it is clear that these legal provisions are much stricter, and above all, we must become a state in which the law must, first of all, adhere to whatever it is. If it's not good, then we'll change it, but the law has to be followed. So that only fines of 2 to 10 thousand kunas are prescribed for the association, i.e. 1 to 5 thousand kunas for the responsible natural person. Yes, it was taken into account that there would be no too little or too much punishment at the same time because if some associations, and most of them are associations that do not have a lot of financial resources, that with one such criminal provision, this association could in some way be immediately closed. But we have a transitional period, there should be prevention, working with associations, pointing to problems, and then, of course, there must be breaking provisions. But there's one thing that there's one exception, Article 34, where it's the responsibility of an association of co-financing from public sources where there's no such criminal provisions, I guess it's in the very association that in some way through their, perhaps moral or someone else's or the public part, see if it's good or not. And this article of the 34th responsibility of funding public sources tells among other things that the association cannot participate or support a political party or other persons in the election promotion. Now, if there are no criminal provisions, then neither am I sure this provision will be very difficult to apply at this time, nor will it be applied at all. We are aware of the mayors, the leaders that associations used to really serve a lot of things to be covering for someone's interests, any kind of interests, so it was really seen, we notice exactly that many folklore associations, tambours, tin music, cultural artistic societies played, worked for a particular political party or not. And I'm sure each of them got support from local and regional self-government. Did she just get the money to do it, to pay off in some way she wouldn't prejudge it, but we're putting ourselves, who we are mayors and mayors or some kind of function to see if that's possible. About the cultural part that, let's say I even mentioned we have associations, first and foremost defenders, so whether they serve in some functions and provisions for political promotion, no, so they get money from the public sector. Indeed, there is still one thing left to judge for ourselves, and when we go after someone’s conscience, morality, or if it isn’t by law, then unfortunately we still have the impression, and unfortunately the fact that there is always something that shouldn’t prevail. Well, once again, this law is a very big step in regulating the work of associations in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I am sure that both the ministry and the rest will make a significant contribution to these new laws that we still need to pass, regulations and procedures that will help them to be what they need to be and to be the wealth of our society while at the same time in that part and every part of democracy, freedom of association respect is the foundation of civil and political freedoms. So that especially as a HNS club will support the final proposal of the Association Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78781	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78782	Thank you. Here is fellow Skvarić, what is actually what if thoughts encourage certain transparency in work, probably some of the provisions of this Association Act will help. There's an article in 2007 that talks about the boom of NGOs, then there were 31 750 and something. That boom is now about 50,000 organizations. And it's almost happening with associations as well as with companies, everyone can start it very easy and very simple and then there's no one left to shut down. And the provisions of this law continue to be difficult and restrictive enough that it will not lead to the shutdown of probably tens of thousands of associations that de facto are no longer and do not exist in Croatia. And they are still difficult, complicated and problematic. It will simply remain and in fact our number of associations will continue to increase. And what is also unclear, what are the goals, whether we have any such concepts at all, is the goal of doing 20 thousand people in associations, as each 75 employees in the Republic of Croatia say, that maybe in 5 years, 40 thousand people in associations are working so that every 30 and some in associations are employed. This law is, and you've noticed very well the differences in associations and everything that appears. But I'm saying, I don't think it's easy enough for example to shut down the association, to make it as easy as they are and how they can continue to be 3 people of some interest to form it, that in an equally simple way they can disband it. Then there won't be enough of this solution that's now in this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78783	Marijan Skvarić responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78784	Madam Vice President, so here's an esteemed colleague I agree in some things, in that part first that I can really say from my own experience as mayor, here's a long number of years, that interest was really money first of all. ... The association was prey. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From my own experience, it once again happened to you that a cultural art society then, which received funds from local sources from regional sources, was divided to have special tamburasses, you have a special folklore, especially you have a drama association, especially you have tins that were all in one. Because then one of these same leaders, the same people were members of all these associations, and then they were always looking for funds, and they were getting a lot more than they were under one association. But they got a lot more just individuals personally, not associations as a whole. And that's where there's always been a fight and a reduction in the quality of criteria and other things. An example that can also be said from our city, since this year when we have set a slightly different criteria for the work of associations, which is that we have opened a tender where we will finance with a fixed amount, namely a certain amount of just programs and projects from some over 80 associations that we have in our city, these projects and programmes have only appeared some, slightly less than 30, the other associations have not reported because they had nothing to report, because there were few people, those initial wills they had, they saw that in particular some things, what they had put in place to spend these funds, they saw that they were not willing to do in some way and they realized. And there's this solution that I said that if we put things in the right place, if we all stand up for that transparency control and build up their activity... Our society she herself will change some things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, neither today nor tomorrow, nor in a year, but we have to change many things that are not good today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78785	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78786	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I think you've identified one problem very well, and that's the problem, so this law forbids associations to support political parties, participate in political campaigns, etc. Unfortunately, we don't have criminal provisions for that again. And you have situations, I have certain associations here I will not go further than Baranja, not only to encourage and participate in political campaigns but also to sit in representative councils, therefore chosen from a list of political parties, and there is no repercusion. Another problem you've also identified well may actually be more for discussion, the possibility of shutting down associations. You're well said it's much more important to finance and transparency of financial flows to associations than I am the number of associations. And it's not the problem of the associations that exist that we're going to say it conditionally on paper alone, but those who are intransparently spending public money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78787	Marijan Skvarić responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78788	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow we agree in this first part that what we have mentioned are the associations involved in political campaigns that are difficult to condition in any way at all because some associations and I mentioned indeed and because of the funds they have received are obliged to handle certain things, and if there is no criminal responsibility then calling for someone's conscience or even legal provisions is, in my opinion, a simple waste of time. And that was before, but today I always note thanks to the work of this government, the government, and also these laws that are still very sustainable, and those that can be implemented directly by such things are becoming less and less. We too must work on this, and we as local leaders and politicians should set our example first in order not to be abused in this way. The possibility of shutting down associations, yes, we really need to make sure that, on the principle of democracy, we can't condition anything. But if we take what I said was a good position, we define the arguments and criteria for the work of these associations and the spending of those funds, then the associations will see for themselves that if we allow three founders to start associations, but they know that these founders can't run that association in quality, then they themselves will convince themselves how long it takes to quality that mission, the content of the association can be realized. Is the emphasis on letting them decide on it. It even happened to me that by some political parties in my city council, I wanted to be forced to ask some associations about their responsibility, their work, etc. What matters is that we should not interfere with their association because they are citizens' associations and we leave them to accomplish their mission and content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78789	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Zeljko Shemper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78790	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister. The debate in the first reading of the Law on Associations has shown great interest of the representatives and a number of objections to certain provisions of that law. The applicant adopted some of the comments by the representatives but in a far smaller number than any proposed amendments and objections. First of all, I am referring to the provision of Article 11(1) that the association can establish at least three founders while some have proposed the number of founders needed to establish such an association. The applicant shall explain that each number of founders is between 2 and 10 in accordance with Article 11. The Convention on Human Rights. The proposals relating to the categorisation of associations in several groups according to the subject of their business have not been passed, according to the activities and character of associations or sources of financing, as well as the exclusion of the application of this law to sports associations, all associations are already placed in the same basket. The proposer clarifies that this law has the meaning of the general law and provides for a basic framework for the establishment and operation of all associations, and in different ways the issues related to the establishment, operation, registration, financing, accountability, termination of action, supervision and other matters can be settled in different ways. A number of objections have sparked a provision that Article 13(3) already provides for the registration of a liquidator which is relevant in the implementation of the winding-up procedure, in particular when inspection supervision has been established that the association has ceased to operate. Article 50 defines the powers of the liquidator in the liquidation procedure in the opening of the winding-up procedure and by enroling in the register of associations as a person authorised to represent the association. The mother of the pensioner of Croatia's largest association in Croatia with more than 280 thousand members believes that this proposal gives the liquidator great authority and responsibility because in such a way neither does the Commercial Society Act define it. The queen believes that the way and process of liquidation so far has been better than proposed. According to the proposal for the coordination of pensioners' associations, HSU has given the amendment to the addition of Article 25(1), which according to the new definition, the competent office of the state administration is required to make a decision to register the association within 30 days of the date of submission of the application. We shall also propose a new item which would read, if the Office of State Administration does not adopt a solution within the time limit referred to in paragraph 1 of the opinion, that the association is entered in the register of associations and from... the day after the expiry of that period. In an explanation, we state that it is necessary to specify the time limit within which the competent office is obliged to adopt a solution in the application for registration in the register of associations. The establishment of a time limit within which the competent authority is obliged to act shall ensure legal certainty and ensure the effectiveness and timelyness of the legal procedure. The coordination of pensioners' associations shall have an objection to Article 51(3) which shall speak of solidarity responsibility for the obligations of the association for five years from the date of erasure of the association from the register of associations. According to most associations, management members carry out jobs as volunteers without compensation, and the provision shows that they are materially appropriate five years from the date of eradication of the association from the register. The question arises who will have the desire and will to work in these organizations for free, and then answer materially. In accordance with Article 55(1) of the Association, they are obliged to comply with their statutes with this law within a year. It is unclear that everything in this new law is important, which associations must amend in their statutes. The associations question whether such detailed regulation of the bodies of the associations and the detailed procedures may limit the freedom of association. Of course, we agree with the bill's proposal to regulate the supervision and inspection of the work of the associations especially the liquidation process of those troubled and inactive associations because a magic number of 50,000 associations has recently been transferred. On the other hand, the setting of excessive organisational and functional requirements before the association in a situation where most of them are barely surviving and working in a lack of financial resources poses a problem and is realistically limiting freedom and association which is already set out in Article 43. The constitution would not be good if the Constitutional Court once again discussed the right to freedom of association of associations. Depending on the level of acceptance of our amendments, the Club of Representatives of HSU will vote on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78791	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davorin Mlakar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78792	Dear Madam Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Maybe it would be good, here we have decided a little bit in a different way to talk about this law. We have already heard praises and thank God every law new that comes to the grades of colleagues from the SDP is much better than those who have preceded them. There's also what this law will do. We'd like to talk a little bit about the whole system that we're talking about in a way that I hope is acceptable, understandable and in a way that maybe in another light will show the system that we need to regulate by this law. We are talking today about NGOs, a broad circle of civil society rights, freedom of association with the guaranteed Croatian Constitution and how we have translated these principles into regulations in our country. At the same time, we are talking about the authority of the government and individual government institutions for specific issues in this case of civil sector work or if you want an association because they are, in fact, representing the sector. It is this non-governmental sector that extends the borders of human freedom and that should set up some new frameworks in the development of our society. However, the practice of practice so far teaches us to at least question these principles of how everything is beautiful, how it is all good and how it is all quality regulated because of the experiences that we can make even this time when it comes to this law. In particular, speaking of the Law on Associations, the Ministry of Administration, i.e. the registration, are responsible for the offices of the state administration and also for the portfolios, given the activities of the associations of different ministries. However, today we are talking about a civil sector which, and I will compare it to something because it seems very interesting to me for today's debate, I will compare it with the overall activity of science in the Republic of Croatia. And from the budget, and we are witnessing the last days with news that we received from the EU Croatia is taking an infamous place at the bottom of the European scale where it reportedly stands out for science somewhere around 0.73% of gross national income in the last year. In view of the calculation, if we were to in any way exclude salaries in science, those resources that are now being allocated to science in Croatia could be calculated at around two billion kunas in such a simplified way. For the civil sector, if we had statistics and indicators like we have for science, I am afraid that Croatia would stand much better on the European scale. In fact, over the years, and we also have data for 2012 for the work of multi-funding associations, i.e. the source of funding in 2012 has allocated a billion 539 million 36 thousand and are now irrelevant further kuna figures. So, almost at the level of state isolation for science. It is indeed a question, regardless of the characteristics of the development of civil society, whether Croatia can allow itself today to develop civil society almost the same means that it sets aside for science, and the consequences of the separation for science are also in the outflow of young, highly educated people who leave Croatia because they do not see their perspective here. And that's why we wanted to talk today in a different way about the Law on Associations. On the Law on Associations for which the Ministry of Administration is responsible in part of the supervision, in part of the registration. But the de facto Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is that, I will not use any other terms, which is the institution that deals with the financing of all these associations, for your information it would take too long to read here, look at the pages of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Office for which everything and in which amounts it has been providing funds in recent years and for what projects it has reported there. To start working some association 140 thousand kuna a year, to start work. We were talking here about freedom of association. We're talking about another segment, we're talking about the civil society of the non-governmental sector. This sector has proved to be the best in the past few years by taking clear, crystal clear political views, views, many of these associations representing the NGO sector. If I did not appoint anyone to offend many of the leaders of these associations clearly expressed their political preferences, they made clear their political options and mainly served to encourage certain political options in the Republic of Croatia. This is a problem that is only mentioned in relation to funding from the state budget and all other budgets of civil society's work. And that's what we should talk about when we bring the Association Act. And the Law on Associations, which has been said to introduce a lot more order, seems to us that in two cases this mess is still in some way deepening. In our first reading, we were in front of the HDZ Club, which explains why our proposals were not accepted. The first proposal to exempt sports clubs from the Law on Associations and to resolve the activities of sports clubs by special law. It may be convenient to note that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has established, among other things, a Sport Inspector who has so publicly performed her functions by reviewing some sports clubs, but at the same time this ministry has no need to regulate the activities of these clubs in an adequately satisfactory manner. And there's the possibility of inspection control over the work of these bodies. And because of the breadth of business, the interests of the associations we think it's high time that sports associations were excluded from the reach of this law and that their activity, mode of work, funding and control were resolved by a special law. I'll tell you one more reason why. The Croatian Football Federation is also an association of citizens in which clubs, football clubs that are mainly citizens' associations are joined. But let's say one is a company of commerce. It's called Hajduk from Split, it's registered as a full-fledged company, and it's probably the right idea for the company to make profits because it could be financed in the first place. At the same time, it enters a group of associations which are forbidden to make profits and which must be non-profit organisations. Today someone was talking about the absurdity of our solutions. I think further insisting on applying the Law on Associations of Sports Clubs is also one of the absurdities. But of course it's not the only one. The law as proposed by the Proposer speaks of the application of this law and what it applies to, to which associations, and then says that associations acquire legal personality on the day of enrolment in the Register of Associations of the Republic of Croatia. All those registered on the day of registration in the Register have acquired legal personality. What other associations are there? Those who have been denied registration or those who have not been asked to enter? They're not legal people, either. However, de facto such is nowhere to be seen, it is only about associations that have the property of a legal person who can form at least three founders, that is that excessive freedom of association, but now we have a new solution that can be among the founders with certified consent of a legal representative, i.e. guardians can be minors from 14 years of age and a full-time person deprived of their business ability in the part of the conclusion of legal affairs. Someone commended it. In doing so, someone did not think that these founders could then be the leaders of such associations and that they could act in a way that creates rights and obligations for that association in legal traffic. And they're 14 years old, they have a guardian because they can't make business decisions because they're commercially incompetent under our age-old law. Why do we spread the rights that underage persons of 14 years of age with guardians can set up associations is completely unclear, and if that's what guardians want and they are of age they can do it themselves. It's just one example of how the establishment of an association was decided. What seems to be the most serious problem, and this has been the problem all along in the application of the Associations Act, is today Article 9, which is non-profit, so the activities of the association are based on the principle of non-profit, which means that the association is not founded for the purpose of obtaining profits but can carry out economic activity in accordance with the law and statutes. And this general provision hides what is happening in real life, that associations earn profits, that they do not refinance the activities of the association, do not return fully to the activities of the association but make profits either for their members, or for the association as a legal person. And here we said we would have failed to regulate the activities of the associations properly, which is that if they act as non-profits, and then there's talk about the law, the accounting of non-profits, then they can't be the exception to that rule, because these exceptions have proved to be very dangerous in practice, and they've mostly destroyed the entire system of the civil sector because they acted in the way that the legislators and the legislators and this law were not allowed to do. The second thing that is from practice, suggestions, if one of the reasons for the termination of associations is that the association is to be deleted if it takes twice as long as the time provided for in the Statute for the maintenance of the congregation. It's the most common reason for stopping associations but it's almost never used or never used. Namely, when you are in inspection and you reach an association that is found to have passed that deadline prescribed by law they will anti-dating some congregation because it is 7 or 8, they will write a date from a year ago and you will never be able to delete such an association and you will signal that how much care they care about their work, however legitimate it is. We have a lot of objections to this kind of solution, one to conclude, is the fact that underage persons with guardians are founders. We don't object to being members of the association, but the founders seem to be taking on commitments that I can't guarantee. The second thing is that the non-profit of the association must be further explained in the law to make it a clear criterion by which it will be entered in the register of associations all those who want it. We do not think that there are associations that are outside of this registration system and we will finally advocate it, that is, and there has been a question regardless of the negative result so far, we will also offer amendments to exempt sports associations from the application of the Association Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78793	Thank you. It would be good if a club representative would consult with the club if there weren't a lot of replicas from that club. Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78794	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Mlakar, I will just look back once more and agree with you really when you talked about investing in science and investing in associations. In science, I have this information and you've listed something very good, what's very difficult for me is that let's say 500 young doctors of science are out of work. Some 2 billion kunas have been invested in these 500 young doctors, and we are simply letting these people go to other EU member states. I think by this number of associations and how many of them there are that associations are right in science among the last. So what I'm worried about, I think, and most citizens, there are really associations that are founded for certain targeted reasons and they're covered up by this multiplication, and now it's added that from the age of 14 a child can start an association. I would love it if this government had a lot more, I'm sure you, too, really heard about science and if you had a vision of such, not that vision that the alleged Minister of Science Jovanovic is carrying out so that he hires himself rather than a vision for these 500 doctors of science, a vision for young people. This I think would mean a lot to this Croatia and the stake would be triple-returned.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78795	The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78796	Is it possible now that I should request a recess for the club meeting so that we can consult, or is it enough to respond to the replica a colleague has set up?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78797	It's done before.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78798	We're on a special increase, but I'm glad they always warn us with their will. Comrade twilight, you spoke of what I wanted to show how much the development of the civil sector is as much of a question as it needs to be at what level it should be today. For the civil sector, which sounds nice, sounds proud, the civil sector, but in fact for these associations of the most diverse programmes, ideas and activities of the states, the same resources it singles out for science. That's what I wanted to keep in mind. Croatia can build its future between a few things and the development, development of science, young scientists and some kind of scientific training, and we, for this science, allocate the same resources as for associations. I said to some associations, here in law say associations that have no legal personality to apply to them some law on socialism, and I don't know about associations that don't have legal personality, so they're probably not even associations. But you have a whole series, here's what I forgot to say, of course the government's Association Office doesn't have a 2013 funding report, but you'll see there how these are phrases, to forgive the expressions that are quoted and on the basis of which the state allocates funds to finance these associations. That's what's devastating and that's what, science is just one example, I believe that in many places we would find priority things in relation to these associations that we should finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78799	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78800	Thank you. Well, here you go, buddy, I think I can agree with the good part of these remarks that you made to the law. As I recall the first reading, I think that even in quite a number of discussions, these similar remarks were made in the first reading, and then the man was actually asking a little bit, so what are these readings for, if the motioner makes any of these remarks up to the second reading? I mean, I've heard neither before nor now too much of an explanation why you can't, these sports societies can't enter Article 1 as exceptions and define them by some other law. This is the number of those who set up, we talked about it in our first reading, and now for the second time, and yet there is no over-explanation that democratic practice defends by making 3 people, and possibly underage people able to form an association. I mean, this kind of law doesn't have any particular strong ideological component, so I think we could really look for a little bit more quality dialogue on these laws, so here we don't have some kind of confrontation on any party basis, and it would really be good if we could see what rational arguments are, that some rational and reasonable remarks that appear in the parliamentary debate can't be classified, because in fact, it's all our goal to sort out in some way because we're all aware that the number of these associations is too big, unnecessary and that huge money is being allocated to them at all levels, from the community to the central state level, that many are dysfunctional, that many of them don't exist, and that many of them contribute to this society in various aspects. So I think there's really room for those few more elements to be aligned.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78801	Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78802	Now I'm allowed, my colleague is not from the same club. Much simpler. My colleague Djurovic, well you said, I will say, our chairman for the public, although the public has long written off this parliament as a place to follow, especially in the afternoon. Croatia had a solution at the beginning that 7 people could start an association. Then the Council of Europe reacted to its suggestions, and to get some better grades in this world of European freedoms, they suggested that we reduce, we reduced the number to 3 founders. Now it's become cartoonal, you have a congregation of ten people, and three people form an association. You can often have the statutes because you always have the best wishes when you start an association, you have some things that you enter in the statutes, and they never come true because let's just say it can happen to you that so many articles of association are uninteresting that you don't collect even 10 members, so you can't even have an appropriate assembly of all members. But you're absolutely right, 3 people to establish something that has a legal personality, which works in legal traffic, is really, in some way, a cartoon of the seriousness of anything. And now, on the one hand, the state is going to reduce those... for the establishment of companies, on the other hand, we're giving freedom to have three people agree, set up an association, can be among these minors, and from all that we're just doing, we're throwing a special suspicion at that entire civil sector. That's why I was saying, too much resources given to the civil sector to be seen so easily as to spend it, and without any serious result.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78803	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78804	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Mlakar, in your presentation you have led to a negative correlation or a ratio of funding of individual associations with the views of their leaders or presidents of these associations. What we certainly do not need to close our eyes over it, such things exist at the level of the entire Republic of Croatia, from the local budget to, as you claim here, the state and certainly that such things should be prevented. First and foremost what should be or primarily the criteria that should be... are the programs of associations and what they can offer, meaning in their work. I would just like you, when you mentioned sports and objecting to get out of this, that you would like to get out, I just one, one picture of today's situation in the HNS, FIFA and UEFA all the time, and in a recent joint warning to the HNS indicates that alliances that are members of the European World Football Organisation should not be subject to inappropriate interference between state bodies and thus and politics. Thus, Đuro Bukvić, HDZ's Chief of Staff of the Municipality of Lukac, Bozo Galić, HDZ's Vukovar-Srijem Mayor, Dubravko Galović, Secretary of the City Committee of the HDZ, Nenad Horvatic, HDZ's Head of the Municipality of Ljubjesica, Ante Kulušić, colleague, parliamentary representative of HDZ, Marijan Kustic, president of the HDZ in Novalja, Drago Lucić, member of the HDZ County Committee, Stjepan Merkeš,... prominent Zagorje HDZ, Slavko..., HDZ head of the Municipality of Rovisce, Alojzia..., member of HDZ and president. So, of the 17 members, 10 are prominent HDZs. We're talking about HNS. What you can, of course it's not illegal, so it's a phenomenon, but in any case you can't close over those eyes and say that someone else financed the association just because they're people who are alike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78805	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78806	First, I'm reporting with a replica, dear colleague, because I didn't really understand what you were actually trying to say, except that you combined the names of those people you were talking about with their party membership. I was talking about associations that instead of dealing with development, civil society development, saw themselves and exploited themselves as political factors in the political life of the Republic of Croatia, although those that were covered by civil society advocated certain political options, even speaking of no SDP. And now that you call me that in the order of these people, of course I don't know who's sitting in which bodies, but I'll tell you what I mean. Some of the associations registered in the Republic of Croatia and advocate a transparent, civilized way of working among other political bodies. I'm going to take an example, citizens organised to monitor the vote, it's an association called GONG, and it's doing more and more than it's watching the vote, but it's using its public influence to support a certain political option, which is what I was talking about, and that's why we're not talking about the civil society of NGOs today, but we're talking about the opposite of government associations, the one that the government is funding, which keeps on paying to put them in certain places in politics and in the economy, and that, of course, it expects in return their service through the work of civil society. At the same time, the Helsinki Committee, which advocates human rights, has never received a drop from the state budget because the people who run it do not suit you politically.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78807	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78808	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Mlakar speaking of associations we managed to find the last piece of information, but it seems to me that the almost impossible mission has almost 50,000 of them, the minister will correct me he probably has this last one, maybe today another one founded 49,004 which would mean at this point that every 10. The Croat has his own association. It's a good thing we're so well-jointed that these amounts you've been talking about can be distributed so nicely. But when we talk about the scale of things, I'm going to go back to what you're apostrophe, which is that we need to clearly figure out what a non-profit association means, which means I have three members, which is underage founders of associations and how associations will be able to function. Amongst the presentations of grants allocated at national level, it is therefore without offending anyone and without reducing anyone's activity or activity in any association and so on. Drug-consuming experimentators who get for their work 4 million 300 thousand kuna. I understand that it's about occasional or weekend drug consumption, but equally, we have colleagues and colleagues with several basics, and you know for yourself which from the state budget funds that we care about unfortunately more and more drug consumption in the Republic and from what it says here I really don't understand who applied, in which way we spend 4 million kunas for experimentators. So we understand that the association is every form of free and voluntary association, but I think it's time for these 50,000 people to look anyway and see who and why in the Republic of Croatia gets the funds and maybe we're not half of them, and at least half of these funds could be re-designed for young unemployed in the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78809	Davor's Mlakar response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78810	Totally by the definition of my colleague, Glavak Replica. It's not every 10. It's every 100. A Croatian teamed up if we count 90 or so, but it doesn't matter. So you found this one example that we were actually talking about but we were trying to be correct and general. The fact that the reasons for funding the work of certain associations are as stated where the funds are spoken and reported, that is, what is the disastrous consequence of this work of these associations. That's why I missed perhaps proposing to the Minister of Administration, and since he has the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Office to transfer this part of the work done by the Ministry of Administration to that office. You have an office of 19 people who share a hand and a hat of money that is sufficient for science at the annual level in Croatia, then you have a Council for the Development of Civil Society that occasionally meets and gives important guidelines, and it all ends up with the fact that experimentators receive unknownly high amounts of funds, publishers also, and that no one is justice at the end and the cost of the gambling budget and similar ones simply donated to them. So perhaps our proposal would be that instead of the Ministry of Administration, the job will be run by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Association Office in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78811	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78812	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Mlakar, you made a good partnership at the beginning of your exposure by comparing funds for science in the Republic of Croatia and you said that it was about 0.3% and 2 billion kuna, but then you talked about the civil sector of NGOs, and I would say pro-government associations that spent billions and 53 million kuna in 2012, although we have no data for 2013, which is about 600 to 700 million kuna. About 30,000 young people could be employed for that money, and you only said that along the way that there are a large number of young people who have left the Republic of Croatia. According to the latest Croatian World Congress, more than 60 thousand young people have left, 29.4% of highly educated people, and of course the question is at what level should this civil sector be, and it's a good thing that you noticed, no one is against it, but I think we should do that job for which they are actually registered and not that GONG for what it's registered does everything but not what it's registered for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78813	Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78814	Comrade Babić, you have seen well about the possibility of using funds that we do not know how they were deployed in 2013 but we see a tendency all these years. We see that, for example, certain national minorities who speak offensively about the Republic of Croatia are not even able to use the dictionary I found on their headlines, funded from the state budget. We pay for newspapers that spit out that same state that finances them. That's what I tried to avoid in this part, because it has nothing to do with the Ministry of Administration trying to fight for as high-quality law as possible. But the operation of the parallel Ministry of Administration, the Office for the Associations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Council for Civil Society Development, and that mostly in all these associations and advices there are potential users of the state budget's resources is actually in itself, I will not say counterproductively, it is productive, but it is worrying. So those who apply for government funds sit in the councils and organise all these projects that the government then finance through its office. Unfortunately, I'm afraid that office has neither the strength nor the desire to properly value the projects that each year gives a billion and a half kuna. From what I've said, the publishings that yell about this country, whatever comes to mind, and to the projects that say, there are project experimenters that are the beginning of the work of a particular association. I really don't understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78815	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78816	Thank you very much. counterpart Mlakar Minister Bauk is one of the few ministers who really hears everything MPs say and often respects attitudes. But by analyzing this bill, he didn't hear the HDZ's views very well. And your well-intentioned argument with inconclusive arguments, I'm only replicating these arguments that Minister Bauk hears because he can hear otherwise. And there is no reason, or motives, to allow minors as founders of associations. Well, that's a puzzling solution. Imagine three members and all three, all three minors, one representing the party, the other the chairman of the Supervisory Board, the association, that's a ridiculous solution. That sports associations should be singled out from this law is not at all controversial because so much is causing unrest and uncertainty and will solve much by accepting the amendments that we have proposed. Yes, as it is illogical that sports activity is even under the Ministry of Science and Education because it is, at least has contacts with science and education. It's also not normal to be, that sports associations aren't under the auspices of a ministry that cares about sports. Because logically, they're associations, to be a ministry that cares about sports. It doesn't make sense when there's a company law to be involved in economic activity, what's the motive behind that? It's not economic activity, so let's get this out of the way. Also when the founders, you said this could be forged by the congregation, so let us introduce that the public notary must verify all the congregations of the associations and there will be no possibility of abuse of any kind.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78817	Thank you very much. The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78818	You'd be surprised to see what public notebooks confirm. Agreements between the two ministers on the transfer of jobs and powers but this will be an issue at one time. And it's against the law, but they've seen that anything can be done. You said something that moved me to the replica, Minister Bauk heard. Minister Bauk hears a lot of things we said but he doesn't care. That other part of the sentence is a problem. However, it is not my replica to offend Minister Bauk in any way, I thank him first that there is patience and will to sit every time it comes to the laws of his jurisdiction that are not the custom of some of his colleagues. Well, that's why our relationship with him has to be a little softer than we could possibly afford. But what you said, and that's the problem where we're showing more and more immatureness in making and proposing regulations, so these 14-year-olds who, with their tutors or guardians, start associations, are the result of something similar. So that people with no business ability can choose and be elected in our country and now we're legalized, I'm not going to be a cartoon to say that people without a business ability can be the leaders of units of local self-government not only choose them but I can be in charge of them. And then I wonder what that makes sense especially in those whose business ability has been taken away because they are not capable of judgment. If you allowed them to vote, then you gave their guardians the opportunity to have two votes in all elections, not one that is the principle of the Croatian Constitution, but it is already too complicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78819	Ivan Shuker, replica. Well, you've reached out to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78820	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A fellow Mlakar, so what is symptomatic in Croatia is that many start an association and say why they will establish it to enter a position of local, county or state budget. And then when they get caught in there, it's more impossible to throw them out. And then that basic reason for the establishment of the association unfortunately disappears in many. There's political support for whoever fits them. However, I responded to the replica because of sports associations. It's just that everybody likes to take pictures with athletes when something big happens, but also a lot of people like to hit on athletes when they think they're weak and they can throw mud at them. However, no one wants to make sure that they simply put them where they belong. It is not clear to me that in an alliance that is an association can be a professional, semi-professional, commercial, amateur, all expensive and even private club and all of us tolerate it. Also, when we talk about the economic activity of many of these associations have something, so let's say, take some small country football clubs that sell beer during the game, etc. Is that economic activity? Whether the state will fail because of this if they have earned 1,000 kuna at the game today, they will pay some costs. No one's gonna take it and take it home. But at the same time, you have big sports events where these clubs hire someone to deal with that activity. The second thing is really not clear to me that we are even talking about some kind of economic activity in the Law on Associations if this is clearly defined by the Law on Income and Profit Tax. If someone makes so much and so much income, and a non-profit organization is obliged to account for it and pay a profit tax. According to what we're entering into something that's already been defined by lex specialis laws. But unfortunately, we in Croatia obviously want to be masters on several grounds. Honestly speaking to me is not clear to me if the ministry is just another sentence, the Ministry of Administration is passing this law, then based on what the Ministry is... It's brought in a sports inspection that controls this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So totally undecided.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78821	Thank you. Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78822	Well, you were probably talking about these pictures of this wetland drying up in a sport that went as loudly as the current minister was, while he was in the House running the bodies. It seems to me that there was a National Council to fight corruption. Then corruption had a different meaning than it has today, it had a different meaning than it has today. But I'm convinced only of course Minister Bauk can't say that. Well, he would be in fact the happiest that he can pass on to fellow Jovanovic in power, as some others do to agreements with the public notary that he can pass on to him in the jurisdiction of sports clubs and that the restoring ministry called science and education and sports is then responsible for sports, so that it monitors the work of clubs not where we are dealing with the depletion of swamps but always when they register and when they realize economic activity and make profits from it as logical for companies as we have in football. We may have somewhere else and everything would be much clearer. This is the law that regulates society, philatelic society, bird-watching society in forestry or a society that encourages the fight of cocks has little to do with the work of sports clubs, and that is why it is our proposal, and it will be the composition of our amendments to exempt sports clubs from the application of the Association Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78823	On behalf of the promoter, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78824	Dear colleagues and colleagues, inspired primarily by Agent Maric's statement about hearing, listening, watching, seeing, seeing, etc. And I'd like to answer some of these allegations. So, first of all, as far as the Association Office is concerned, let's start with it. So, I think he got a little unworthy of criticism about financial resources. It therefore collects data from the state administration authority as much as the financial resources are allocated, i.e. on the basis of a variety of grounds. According to the report you quoted, it is for 2012 in one item that the office in 2012 is not anyone, it approved zero. In 2011, he had three million kunas, I think. But the data for 2013 are saying that by the state budget and the budget of the county, cities and municipalities are somewhere a billion and 200 million kuna for 2013, a billion and 200 million kuna of which is from the state budget of 570, from the city budgets of 411, from the county budgets of 270 million kuna. Since 2013 was a pre-election year for local self-government then I think it's a little bit of local self-government that they were a little more generous than the previous year. But I don't have any parallel data. In addition, as regards the amount of funds, they were allocated at the level of the amounts which they had, therefore, for 2012 from the state budget, at least from the previous few years. It's the most assigned, so 2008. 368 million kuna, then the crisis reduced, and in 2009 it was 282 and then it went to the level of 230 million kuna from the state budget. It's about 250 games, sometimes more, sometimes less. So that's about the exact numbers. So when Mr. Mlakar spoke about the government sector, he probably meant the government. It was not politically painted because the fact that some associations have recently been active on the sides of the political parties of the options they represent, so the current opposition was at the city level, either at the state level. Therefore, it is obvious that there are certain and easily more or less recognizable facts. As for the associations you mentioned, yes, I'd have noticed the same thing about their actions, and I've been commended probably. And something else about funding the newspaper list you mentioned was also funded during the past government, and it was always politically assessed as buying a coalition that was then between the two political parties, I will not name them now. So I wouldn't be spreading the debate here. Now let's talk sports associations. In Article 1 of the Law, we have written a sentence, which is that this law regulates the establishment and legal position, etc. an association unless the special law provides otherwise. So if I were to be exempt from sports associations in Article 1 now, then the question is, what would the law apply to sports associations? Then there would be no law that, if we now passed that provision, would no longer apply to sports associations. I'm not sure if I said that at the last reading, but certainly you don't have to doubt at all that if the second-degree body for the resolution of registration issues of sports associations were the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, that is, the resolution body concerning sports. So, as far as the first degree is concerned, there's no difference. People would bring papers to the Office of State Administration, and it doesn't matter if it's going to be in the General Administration or Social Activities Service. The second-degree and resolution issue is whether it will send it to the Ministry of Administration or the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. So, I wouldn't mind if the Sport Act was prescribed as a special law that the second-degree body is a resolute ministry. And for any other resort and for any other activity to be prescribed by these ministries. So probably the Ministry of Administration would be a second-degree body for associations of national minorities and perhaps several other activities involving the Ministry of Administration. Therefore, I personally don't mind having it prescribed. And now I'm gonna have to answer for the kids because I'm out of these, I can't get used to it for just five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78825	You will answer through replica. Davorin's Mlakar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78826	Here you see this minister for only five minutes and then 30 minutes so he can't make it, so I'll try very short. We were to exempt ourselves from this law of the sports association when the Sport Act changed, so we suggested to you in the first reading of this law, you even wrote to us why you wouldn't accept it, but don't come down so badly now that we still write to you the provisions of the law so that it should be read so that some law could apply or not apply. There are many solutions, from the entry into force of certain provisions to what will happen by the time Minister Jovanovic realizes it is his area and should pass the law. But what you're talking about, I'm sorry, it's hard for us to mate, but you're a quick reader, I'm slow to understand, so that's the problem. You're talking about the 2013 indicators of funding that we can't get to. This is the first incorrect debate we have since this office that you have spoken of, and I did not say that he himself has funded, has given his last report for 2012 which is available to the public. Yes, I was talking about all the governments, I was saying that funding the civil sector is as inadmissible as the state has a much higher priority than financing many of these associations that are being held as beneficiaries of the funds. It was the taste of my debate, I wanted to say that Croatia cannot finance the same amount of funds as science.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78827	Replication response, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78828	Yes, I see well that we are fundamentally in agreement, and it would be easier for me to make it easier for the second-degree body, which is what I'm talking about, the second-degree body for resolving disputes in sports associations, the Resistant Ministry. Then you can ask the question of hunting associations to be the Ministry of Agriculture or some other cultural associations to be in the Ministry of Culture. But given the number of objects that come into the second degree, we'll deal with it and we'll withstand that pressure. So it's not a problem. If the Resort Ministry wishes to do so, we certainly will not resist including the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. I'm 1.20, so I'll answer Mrs. Glavak. On May 21st, the total number of associations is 51,266. Every 80 Croats are already in one of the associations. If there are 10 on average, that's every eight. Of these organizations 17,199 is a sport activity, of which 11,000 ground sports, 1500 martial arts. So each as many as 400 Croats in martial arts etc., etc. And as regards the founders of the 14-year-old associations, I would therefore like to say that this is a solution in accordance with the provisions of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child of the Republic of Croatia, and Article 15 states are said to recognise the child's right to freedom of association and freedom of peaceful assembly, and that no restrictions can be imposed in the enjoyment of these rights other than those legally prescribed in the community and which are necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national and public security, public order, the protection of public health and morals or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others. So we found no reason in the convention to limit it, and that's why this is the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78829	The minister takes his freedom as well as the MPs, so let's tolerate it. Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78830	Mr. Minister, from the very moment on, of your five-minute address, has imposed the need for the Law on Sports Associations, a special Law on Sports Associations. She went into need, and in some ways you admitted it. Then why don't you regulate it that way? There are legal solutions to such a thing and transitional solutions too. But as far as this argument is concerned, you're now reading for minors, although it can't be clear to me that you're not allowing a person under the age of 16 to have an I.D., and you're allowing a 14-year-old person to be authorized to represent an association, which is so unnatural and unnatural. Then, and you are referring to the rights of the child, why they are discriminated against so that we can't discriminate against minors and business incompetents, or those who have been deprived of their business ability to be able to represent and be leaders of the d.o.o. or limited liability companies or companies? And when you call for an explanation, why do you only cite such cases east of Croatia? Am I always interested in what's in Austria? I don't care if it's in Montenegro, Serbia or somewhere in Georgia? What's in Austria, it has to be first, what's in Austria? And if we are connected to both traditional and cultural and historical, then it is Austria, and certainly not the Balkans or Romania, Bulgaria or Serbia or anyone else, Austria. What's in Austria, that interests me first? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78831	The reply to the replica of Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78832	As far as sports associations are concerned, I looked at the Sport Act in this way, and indeed a dozen articles in chapter 5 that talk about the forms of association specifically mentioned sports associations, it seems to me from 46th to 59th, and probably what you said is true and I think it would make it significantly easier to function, and to make it easier for those specificities that have sports associations to write. However, in the area of registration, registration of termination and establishment, I do not know what would be much more specific. So in the part of the operation, what does a sports inspection, whether coaches have licenses, it's not a matter of administration, whether health checks are made, whether the safety of the participants in the sport is secured, it seems to me to be part of a sports inspection. The sports inspection will not determine whether the quorum was at the assembly or whether their mandate expired. And that goes for all the other inspections, I guess. As far as the inspection supervision of the associations is concerned, they are carried out by the Offices of State Administration and the central authorities by the premises. So, we had a case in New Town this brave child, the Law on humanitarian aid carried out supervision by the Resistant Ministry of Social Policy and Youth in its area and functioning with money from the Ministry of Finance. So it's not about surveillance I think it is, it's gonna be more or less okay. Now, as far as Austria is concerned, only two people are supposed to be able to form an association. So that's where we went above them. As far as comparison is concerned, we are looking for those solutions that are in the world, that is, in Europe close to us, whether this is Austria or the ones you mentioned, so primarily in the countries of the European Union, in part in the countries of the region, and we will continue to do so. So here's the thing about Austria, the number of founders is something smaller, but these other things can be answered when I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78833	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, colleague Krešimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78834	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Ministers with their associates, colleagues and colleagues are just the final proposal of the Association Act. Afterwards, there were more criticisms, almost nothing was accepted, but it is certain that the law is important for this law as we have recently heard from those assistants, and the days of Minister Lalovac, the association twists in Croatia 12.7 billion kuna and it is certain that this law is significant. Looking at this law, we expected that there would be some more improvements to the law but certainly that Article 9 after the Law on Financial Business and Accounting of Non-profit Organisations was adopted, then perhaps there was a need for a little more coordination between the two ministries. Here were the words earlier that there were a lot of HDZ replicas on my predecessor's exhibit, but looking at the compliance under Article 9 then I must admit that between the two ministries it took more compliance is the NGOs not the same as the DOO. And so we look at this proposal for a legal solution that can carry out economic activity, but we can't have profit then for sure that we should have had a little more to deal with the Financial Business and Accounting Act of Non-profit Organisations because it defined income, meaning of 230 thousand kuna and that law was passed. Therefore, by looking at this law then Article 9 certainly needs to be focused on both the Financial Business and Accounting Act of non-profit organisations. NGOs are more important for the development of civil society, and surely that all units of local and regional administrations are rising with their own, I would say to associations especially traditional because we know in certain municipalities, cities, and cities, I move that people on their knees were firemen, for example, or in some other associations that are important for the development of specific villages, municipalities and cities as we can see today when floods across Slavonia where they are of great importance the administration of these assistance of people who sacrifice and often their own life to help others. And that's why I'm saying that you need to separate the NGOs from the DOO, and this law doesn't do that. Associations are established freely and voluntarily and seeing that we have 50,000 associations in Croatia, that we have 9 757 employees and only that the salaries cost, people who are employed in associations 866 million kunas then we can say that this is a high amount. But a moment ago, there was a word that every Croat, i.e. Every 85. The Croats are coming in one association. But we have another problem on the ground. It was often known after the tenders were held to submit funding contracts for a year, then you see that there are people so one man founded by 10 associations. So it's good to hand over these associations at the end of the contests to each individual to see who these people are, among themselves. It is also important to know which programmes have received certain financial resources and what is important, dedicated use, which are units of local and regional administrations, are also being checked because it is also important. 12 thousand and 500 associations submit their financial reports, but when we see 800 just deleted in our Republic, then I think they are a little controlled and control needs to be much greater especially when we talk about organizations that have income of more than 5 million kuna, and these are about 100 associations in the Republic of Croatia. And then when we see this legal solution, that three 14-year-olds will find themselves and start an association, and it was a nice word earlier that the minister hears well, sees well, and I'm curious who's going to answer when three 14-year-olds make a problem? And that's for sure. Therefore, I think that children of 14 years are too young to run certain associations, especially if they are higher incomes from individual associations. To my question, Minister, how much today you really think that the association in the Republic of Croatia, which is actively working, but also important is volunteering, but we see when it comes to professionalism of nearly 10,000 employees that a lot of people in Croatia are working precisely in associations, but there are perspectives opening up. The perspectives are opened when we talk about European funds and there should be a chance and funding of these associations because when we look at 12.7 billion kuna, that 2 billion kuna is financed from municipal, urban, county and state budgets, then we can say that no small amount is financed by associations in the Republic of Croatia. This law has said ministers, Article 1 that political parties, religious communities, trade unions, employers, etc. But I have opinions as well as political parties need to do transparent business and present their reports on the web, and I think that should be done by associations, especially those that have slightly higher income, and we can also limit the revenue that they are obliged to publish their financial reports. Associations are set up to change society, to solve problems, but we often have other opportunities and other media knowledge. What is good is that Article 12(4) defines that the OIBs must also be defined and membership audits are done, item 5 of the members' list that must be taken into account, I think there are a lot of associations in the Republic of Croatia that have not been audited. Also, Article 48(3), that it takes double the time provided for the assembly to function, I also think that it is good, but also the infringement provisions for the list of members, Article 54, but Article 55 whether it will be enough for one year to comply with the law, I do not think it will. But here's what I'd like to hear from the minister. What is imperative and it must be imperative, not only of you ministers, but also of the Ministry of Finance and others, to be control greater. Also, there were just a few words about enrolment in the register, I think that associations can be faster registered in the register, so there may be opportunities to speed up that space as well. Also, when we talk about associations, then those financial reports also need... what I said as well as political parties. So the biggest challenge for us is that, we think that people of 14 years of age won't be able to run associations or maybe define that at least among 3 founders, there has to be one person who's 18 years old. ... Then it's my oversight, here, I apologize. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, such a legal solution as today must also be coordinated with the Financial Business and Accounting Act of non-profit organisations, in particular Article 9. We often see in the field that you have certain birts, and in fact they're associations. I'm not saying what Mr. Shucker said earlier, that you have some games, etc., that people are honored, etc., but you also have cafes that are often said to be associations. It's a thing that needs to change and adapt to both new times and new circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78835	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78836	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Members, I am a little surprised at you in some things, especially as a local, or regional leader, you first start talking about associations where you praise them and I agree absolutely with you that associations really highlight values and contribute to development, not only development, but to enriching and fertilising our local regional self-government of our association. Then at the same time you move to the level that these associations are the cost, that 12.7 billion, we know, is total somewhere, it's known that it's about their action itself. At the same time, we know that most of the time, co-financing and funding of such associations have been from local and regional levels. So they financed cities, municipalities, counties. But the good part of the associations you said were firefighters what we legally have to finance 5% of the original tax revenues, even civil society, civil protection, the Mountain Rescue Service, the Red Cross is all we have to finance. There are now those other associations that have to work in any case but now under new conditions, by new laws, how to work on programming principles. Then it won't really happen that we're laughing at whether three members are going to make some kind of association and then they're going to take some big money. No, they won't, because these people are not gonna be able to get the money, they're not gonna be able to prove the sustainability of one of their programs and projects. Someone will finally and introduce transparency and arguments through control that these associations can at least be controlled and coordinated from the local funds that we finance the most. And those funds if they get out of their activities, which I agree with you that around this part of the economic activity is a good part of the gray zone, we need to make additional regulatory arrangements there, if they have the capacity to get funds from a private asset or from an EU fund, everyone is happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78837	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78838	Thank you very much. After all, I am surprised to you when it comes to the functioning of the associations then it is legally defined from the budget, just before you said the Red Cross but also professional fire departments and others. The financing of associations is not defined in such a way by law and you can voluntarily finance association programmes at unit level of local and regional administrations from your own incomes. But what I'm saying is that there's a small portion of the association in some gray zone, and that needs to be cleaned up. There are not many such associations of colleagues, there are very few associations that are in the gray zone and therefore should not be left to 99.99% of organisations that work well, honestly and do their job. And because of this small part of the association, laws need to be changed and adapted. Projects are funded by associations and most units of local and regional administrations co-finance projects, this is not a cost. In most cases, such as funds, they are not a cost but a multiplier of funds because they are bringing in more new funds. They therefore make a significant contribution to the development of the community and our society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78839	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78840	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Bubalo, you mentioned associations that have now been first involved in helping flood victims. The truth at this very time as we now discuss the Law on Associations, we have many volunteers who unreservedly give themselves, give their time, their knowledge, their ability to help others to help the community. Such charities must have a lot. And at the same time, we will pass a law that stipulates that with a fine of 2 to 10 thousand kuna, we will punish for a violation of the association that, for example, does. does not keep a list of members of associations in such a way as to be prescribed by this law or by the responsible person from one thousand to five thousand kuna. I think it's sad and that after this there are few people who will be willing to be responsible for the management of such an association, that there will be few who will be willing to form and form such an association.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78841	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78842	Thank you very much. My colleagues, we must surely congratulate all and volunteers but also many organizations that have actively joined in helping and bringing help and such are many. But a doubt arises after such punishments, if you have not collected some OIB, I am just now in my presentation, wondering if all these treatments will be possible in a year. We especially feel that the minister has focused because the opinion is that most associations of three members. You have a group of tens of thousands of members. Here, for example. I'm a member of an association that counts more than 10,000 members. Therefore, there should be a strong reserve around this coordination so that there is no punishment for volunteers who work hard and do their part of the work fairly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78843	We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78844	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning of the presentation on the final proposal of the Association Act, I would like to say that I will support the adoption of this law because I believe that this law will adopt some positive changes, in particular in terms of more precise definition of the provisions relating to the management of associations and bodies of associations, association of associations with alliances, respect for the principles of democratic representation, and democratic clarity of the will of members in the internal organisation of the association, acquisition and distribution of assets, and the exercise of economic activities. In fact, I fully agree with the motion of the Ministry of Administration that insufficiently defined control provisions and a complicated process of eradicating associations from the register resulted in almost 50,000 registered associations in Croatia today, and only a little more than 800 were deleted from the register, which certainly does not correspond in any way to reality. Namely, if the Ministry of Finance has the information of 23,875 associations included in their register in which all registered associations are required, and there are only around 12,500 bond associations handing over the financial report, the only conclusion we can make is that there is a huge gap between the number of registered and really active associations. It's a situation that definitely requires a state-of-the-art. It worries and intransparency in financial business which is trying to regulate another law that we have recently had the opportunity to discuss in the First Reading Parliament, which is the proposal for a law on financial business and accounting of non-profit organisations. The fact is that there are insufficiently developed conditions for granting financial resources to associations from public sources, i.e. that there are different standards in the conduct at national and local level, which opens up a large space for manipulation and abuses in the use of funds for general good. The question arises: what are programmes and projects for the common good and what are associations whose role is to work for the common good. In addition, I would like to mention that I have been and still have been a member of several associations, some of which are professional or professional, some are registered to promote sustainable development, environmental conservation and the like. And it is my impression that many members and members of associations are not sufficiently informed or familiar with the laws and regulations governing the activities of associations but not with the basic documents of associations which are members and members, which are programmes and statutes of those associations. Although I will support the adoption of this law, I believe that there are certain shortcomings in the law that need to be corrected. I have been approached by several different representatives and representatives of associations, so I am taking this opportunity to draw attention to their comments and to present their proposals to improve the provisions of the bill. In the first place, it is the Association of Gaj which promotes the social affirmation of persons with mental disorders and which warns that the provision in Article 11, paragraph 6, which has been prescribed by the person authorised to represent the association may only be a person with full business capacity not in accordance with the proposed family law or with the applicable provisions of the Constitution. In particular, Article 234(2) of the Final Proposal of the Family Law provides that a person cannot be completely deprived of his or her business ability and paragraph 1 of the same provision stipulates that a person may be deprived of his or her business ability, in part, to a limited extent, only when he or she is unable to care for any of his or her rights, needs or interests, or where he or she endangers such rights, needs or interests of others. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that any restriction of freedom or right must be proportionate to the nature of the need for a restriction in each case. The provisions in force as well as the proposed Family Law stipulate that the decommissioning of the business capacity precedes a special extra-parisal procedure when the court decides in each case. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal of the Association Act provides for a legal restriction on the business capacity to represent an association for all persons partially deprived of their business capacity, regardless of the scope of the deprivement, which is automatic and does not provide for the possibility of direct judicial protection. So it is contrary to the cited provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that the restriction of law applies in each case. The Sjaj Association shall therefore propose to amend the provisions of Article 11(6) by amending the amendment. The final bill in a way that reads: "A person authorised to represent an association can only be a business capable person if her business ability is not taken away from her in the work of making legal transactions.". The amendment has also taken over the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities from the Association, so I appeal to the Government to respect this amendment and thus correct this provision. Environmental protection organisations gathered at the Green Forum also warn of some provisions of the bill that may be problematic and harmful in law enforcement. They feel that the whole proposal lacks the definition of the term of associations acting for the general good because the text of the law does not make it clear which projects are in that category and which are not. They therefore propose that the term be defined in accordance with the constitutional provision set out in Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. I quote: "Freedom, equality, national equality and gender equality, peace, social justice, respect for human rights, inviolability of ownership, preservation of nature and human environment, rule of law and democratic multilateral system are the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and the basis for interpreting the Constitution.". Therefore, in these areas there is a basis for establishing general, i.e. public interest. The Green Forum proposes a correction to Article 16 which would allow decisions to be made not only by direct but also by electronic voting in line with modern technological trends. Both the Green Forum and representatives of a number of national minority associations propose a correction of Article 34(3), which reads: "The association that implements programmes and projects of interest for the general well-funded public sources cannot participate or support the political party or other persons in the election promotion.". They fear that this provision could be used against associations if it is widely interpreted, and in particular it is easily possible for organisations fighting for environmental protection because some of their activities could be interpreted as supporting a political party. And in the event of opposition to a project as support to political competitors, the options behind the implementation of the project. For similar reasons, this provision is opposed and the activists of national minorities so I appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to support the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights, which, instead of saying, participates in or gives the words "to provide financial and material support" and which I believe was the meaning of this provision. I hope that the Proposer, the Ministry, or Government, will adopt these remarks and thus improve and facilitate the implementation of this law in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78845	Thank you very much. A colleague of Domagoj Hajduković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78846	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So modern democratic societies characterise the existence of three sectors: the public represented by the state, the private market and the civil society. Of course, associations are only one part of civil society and associations are not an exclusive part of civil society but are an extremely important component of civil society and actions in modern civil society. Namely, what is the role of associations and even the association of individuals in modern democracy, would they say in a modern, liberal civil state? There are two, two sets of reasons why someone, or a group of citizens, decides to gather in the association as one, as a formally legally defined framework for their action. It's first of all the protection of human rights and freedom. And the associations, in part, came from these movements and came from them. And the second is how the law is defined. Therefore, for environmental, humanitarian, information, cultural, national, social, educational, sports, technical, health, scientific and other objectives and beliefs. The role of associations we all know very well, draw attention to certain problems, sensitize the public on existing problems, offer solutions to these problems, articulate the views of a particular group of citizens either on their views, worldview or on certain social flows and situations. But also often they are actively involved in the society of various active participation projects in the community above all at the head of volunteer action. But as we have heard in the debate so far, there are other species, so mostly on a volunteer basis, they work on a better or generally good, to improve the society in which we work. What the law wants to achieve is, of course, ensuring an effective legal framework for the activities of associations. As a legislator and as a representative of this public in part of modern democratic society, it is important that this legislative proposal also creates preconditions for effective funding of programmes and projects of general interest in the Republic of Croatia. The financing, establishment, legal position, property, status changes, supervision, shut-down of associations etc., as well as the registration of foreign associations in the Republic of Croatia, which has become our reality with the moment of EU entry. Of course, I would particularly like to highlight this financial aspect, although as already said, we have also discussed how accounting will be run by non-profit organisations and which will be dealt with in detail by another legislative proposal. But in the sense that associations consume public money. It is clear that associations are not financed exclusively from public money. There are membership fees, donations from citizens, firms, etc. But where public money, therefore, is given to associations and associations are obliged, of course, to spend that public money transparently, to submit a report on its spending and of course on the results, or whether certain projects have obtained the results of the public money financed. Already, speakers before me mentioned that this transparency, i.e. monitoring of the work of associations, varies from state level to local and then local differences exist between counties, cities and municipalities in their implementation. Unfortunately, I can argue from this pay phone that there are local self-government units whose most important money is intended to be shared by the associations, and that later associations never ask how they spent or wrote some order reports. Since it is public money, taxpayers' money, in this case taxpayers in the unit area of local self-government, I think that this should put a special emphasis on and stress their responsibility in spending money, i.e. responsibility in this case for units of local self-government which did not, or did not seek, evaluate the projects they had funded. Funding projects for the sake of projects should not be a purpose for itself especially if we spend public money on projects that we will never evaluate and we will never know whether they have created added value for which they are financed whether it is humanitarian, ecological, world-wide, educational or otherwise. I see this law as an important shift in the normative form of the activities of associations in the Republic of Croatia. That has been said a lot by the motionary himself, the speaker before, so I wouldn't have owed it. What I would still like to underline is the important problem I see in the work of associations that are funded by public money. In fact, Article 34 of the bill states that the association implementing programmes and projects of interest for the general well-funded public sources cannot participate or support the political party or other persons in the election promotion. It is clear that associations can participate in political campaigns, support either individuals, or parties who think that the best articulate the solution to their problem or worldview and so on, but not if they are financed from public money. We have a situation and I'll tell you where, so in Baranja, where one association of citizens is doing it. But I wouldn't go so far as to support it, so they participate in the campaign, even their logo appears on the promotional posters of a political party, even the presidents of these associations are on the lists of political parties, being elected to the representative bodies of local self-government units and participating, means directly and specifically in the political life of their local communities. The question arises, then, what are our political parties for, for which is the institution of a group of citizens, i.e. the candidate groups of citizens, i.e. the list of groups of citizens, etc. Unfortunately, the law does not provide for any sanctions in the infringement provisions, so this problem could be solved in two ways whether Article 54, which provides for the infringement provisions, is complemented by a single indent that will apply to this particular offence or be resolved by a special regulation of the ministry, which can then be more clearly defined as to what kind of infringements it is. Since, as I have said and once again, I underline, there is a legitimate view of the political action of the associations, therefore either through support, whether through participation in a campaign of certain political parties or individuals, but not as long as they are financed by public money. Because what happens to you especially in the smaller environments? The local leader pays you, you work for him. So either you're agitating, whether in some other way you're contributing to his campaign or to its campaign, or to public support, etc. So, in my opinion, it's unacceptable behavior, I don't think that's the point of the association at all. Of course, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia are allowed political action, but there are other instruments, such as any political party, any candidate list of the group of citizens. Let me get this straight. In my view, this law represents an improvement in the current legal framework. That's why we'll support him. And here's what I'd like to let the Proposer think eventually about the supplement or possible other ways to regulate this anomaly that we've noticed about the political action of the associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78847	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78848	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Hajdukovic impresses me when I hear such wonderful grades from the Kukuriku coalition at the expense of local self-government. It's always your local self-government, I don't know what you hate so much. She's guilty of flood problems, she's guilty of associations, she's guilty because some associations support her, local leaders do things. You were talking about a group that's on some lists, some posters. So give us the name and last name that's involved, don't leave the public here in doubt, talk about it. It's very simple, you speak specifically, don't use some local leaders, some associations, some local self-government. Let's be specific about these things once.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78849	Replication response, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78850	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I don't want to talk about my colleague Hrg who's exactly at work because she's wearing a national omen. That's where I'd stop. I know that the area is slippery, but it's slippery, I wouldn't say it's slippery in what those people were on lists, were on posters and participated in local self-government. Hating local self-government units, that's the kind of qualifications you use? So give me a colleague, please! And I competed for the head of the local self-government unit. So I know very well the problems of local self-government. And it's not true that on this side of the assembly you'll only hear bad qualifications about local self-government units, just the opposite. If you remember some of the discussions we had about sports, but also about the development of civil society as such, we have just highlighted the importance of the units of local self-government, their huge contribution to the development of both kinds of social action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78851	A colleague Josip Djakic is not present, so he loses the right to debate on this point. Comrade Željko Mirkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78852	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to say a few sentences about the proposed law this late this afternoon. As we have already heard from the adoption of the Law on Associations in 2001, a step forward has been taken to strengthen autonomy in the work of associations as private-legal persons who are established and managed by their members, and the basis for the development of standards, criteria and procedures for budgetary donations to projects and programmes on interests of the general good implemented by associations. However, over more than 1 decade of application of the law, a number of problems have been observed and a number of difficulties in its application, which has led to a decision to come forward after consultation with the interested public to draw up a proposal for a new Association Act. Insufficiently clear provisions on the management of associations and bodies of the association, the association of associations in alliances, membership, assembly, respect for the principle of democratic representation and democratic manifestation of the will of members in the internal organisation of the association, acquisition and distribution of assets, and the pursuit of economic activities rarely in practice lead to different interpretations and unequal application of the provisions of the law. Furthermore, inaccurate control provisions but also a very complex process to liquidate the removal of associations from the Register of Associations have resulted in the fact that we have heard several times today 50,000 registered associations and only a little more than 800 deleted since the establishment of the register itself, which certainly does not correspond to the real state. Data on only 21 500 associations enrolled in the Register of Non-profit Organisations at the Ministry of Finance in which all registered associations are required and about 12 500 bond associations submit a financial report point to a major gap between the number of registered and really active associations. Similarly, the conditions of financial support to associations from public sources have not yet been sufficiently developed and there are different standards of conduct both at national and local level and thus the possibility of different abuses in the use of funds from public sources intended for the implementation of programmes and projects of interest for the common good. This law requires a greater public, i.e. transparency of the work of associations when using funds from public sources to strengthen the trust of citizens and the public in the purpose of direct and indirect funding of programmes and projects of interest for the general good but also to enable members of associations and the interested public to regularly become familiar with the basic acts, activities and results of the work of associations and to conduct supervision in areas of their interest. Important changes to the applicable law have established the principles of the operation of the association. The principle of public independence, democratic structure, non-profits and the principle of free participation in public life. The founder of the association may also be a minor who is 14 years of age as well as a full-time person deprived of his or her business ability to take actions relating to personal property rights but under the law of the prescribed procedure. The membership of minors and adult persons deprived of their business ability to take actions relating to personal property rights and their participation and decision-making must be prescribed by the Statute. But under the law, certain conditions are designed to protect them. Mandatory content of the statutes with the aim of facilitating the work of the managing authority has been extended, issues of status changes or changes in the legal position of the association carried out on the basis of a decision by the competent authority in accordance with the Statute and this law, referring to the accession, merger and division of the association. The introduction of status changes as a new chapter in the Associations Act responds to real problems and situations in which associations are located in everyday practice. The status changes are also highlighted and further reason for the termination of the association's existence is further specified by the competences to exercise supervision over the work of the association. The specific chapter regulates the concept of status changes such as attachment, merger and division of the association. The accession of one or more associations to another shall be entered in the Register of Associations. The merger shall transfer the total assets of one association to another, based on the decision to attach the merger and the establishment of a new association to which the total assets of two or more associations are transferred. The merger procedure shall be subject to the provisions of this Act of Accession accordingly. The merger ceases to exist and the newly formed association is considered to be a new association to which the provisions of this Registration Act apply accordingly. The association can also be divided into two or more associations. The decision on the division of associations shall have the legal effect of the founding act on the division procedure shall be subject to the provisions of this Act, the Act of Accession of the Association. The divided association ceases to exist, and the process of enrolling the newly established associations. The provisions of this Law on the Registration of Associations shall apply, the associations established by the division shall be eligible in solidarity for the obligations of the divided association. Associations established by the division shall be entered in the register of associations following the disseminating of funds, rights and obligations, continuing primary supervision of members of the association, internal supervision and other interested legal and physical persons, administrative supervision of the Ministry of Administration, inspection of the work of the associations of the competent offices, inspection of the activities of the association of the competent ministries or other authorities of the State Administration, and the Ministry of Finance supervision of the financial operations of the associations and the submission of prescribed financial reports. In particular, the scope and procedure of conducting inspection surveillance shall be detailed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. ... the names, name, form and content in which they are entered in the register of associations, if they hold meetings and congregations, provided that they provide the minutes from regular meetings of the Assembly of the Associations, whether they lead the list of members of the Association in the manner prescribed by this Act, and whether they have ceased to act in accordance with Article 49(2), (3) and (6) of this Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with the requirements of the previous public hearing, the inspection supervision of the work of the association shall be carried out by the competent office or by an authorised civil servant on his own initiative or on the initiative of the applicant of the representative and shall be obliged to take action to remove identified irregularities within a specified time limit, to issue obligations and a criminal order. The inspection of the activities of the association shall be carried out by competent inspection, depending on the work of the association. A series of open issues on this area, such as the classification of associations according to the objectives of their establishment and operation, the uniform treatment of competent offices in the management of the register of associations, the scope of the information publicly published and the like should be resolved by the rules on the register of associations and the register of foreign associations which the minister responsible for the affairs of the general administration should adopt within 60 days of the entry into force of the law. Finally, by making significant changes to this law in the transitional and final provisions, the association's obligation to comply with its statutes within one year of the date of entry into force of this law. In the end, I will support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78853	Thank you. My colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78854	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here are a few things and perhaps questions to the representatives of the ministry, perhaps some clarifications related to some articles of this law that I personally cannot vote for because of that part about the establishment of an association. Namely... You are that after more than 15, 16 years of working in local self-government, which as head of the Department of Social Activities, which as mayor simply most associations that are founded come to the city or to the municipality on a simple dig where funding is sought. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we, when we allow a family to form an association by law, when we allow a mother or father with two children, one of them can form an association, then we definitely question the real interest of establishing associations, especially if we haven't defined and put conditions tied to funding. Because there's already a lot of talk here about sports associations, and I have to say from experience that at one point in time a man can start an association, a sports association, form one or two teams, place himself in some sport at a higher level and suddenly come to get funding in the budget, looking for space, looking for conditions, making pressures, and before the establishment of the association no one asked how and how that club or that association would act. I'm saying this from concrete examples, I can argue with them, so they later disrupt the overall system, create nerves within the overall system, even show up sports, the same sports in smaller cities, in smaller municipalities, some rivals appear among individuals who are currently powerful and perhaps economically, so they can afford it. And they use it this way to sort of prove themselves and show themselves. So I think the law should define both material conditions and one projection of finance from where it will be financed, but with 3 members of which 2 people can be of 14 years of age, I don't think it's possible to implement it. So here is the pressure on local self-government units very large and the role of local self-government units in the work of the association is very large, and in some ways, the local self-government unit in the establishment of the association definitely has absolutely no right to assess it with positive and good or not, to look for some data, to be able to include it in some of its programs. Furthermore, the thing that is immediately related to the establishment is related to the concept of the area of action. I am asked here, therefore, in Article 13 the territorial area of action is mentioned, and Article 20 mentions the area of action, whether it relates to what the association is dealing with or what it does, so it is a question for the minister. And the second part also mentions association in the same activity or different, whether it is... the same activity or the same area of action, whether in the area where it operates or the activity it deals with. Also, related to the erasure of the association from registers and liquidators. I think that in Article 50, you should add that the liquidator can appoint a competent government office because if the 3-member association and they no longer meet, who will appoint the liquidator of those people who have no longer met, then someone should be left with the possibility to appoint a liquidator on the side to conduct, so delete the association, liquidate the association. What I don't like is that part of the law that tells me that, I don't know, the property will be assigned after that job is done to some association like that, to say, character or business that it deals with. I think that absolute property should always be allocated after the procedure of local self-government, and that local self-government knows well how and who it will assign it, of course it will mostly assign to those associations that are engaged in similar activities. And I also think that we should think a little bit about automatic erasing because most of the problems arise in thinking, divergences in such associations that in the end... there is no one to implement but to maybe use that model, if someone really didn't carry out the procedure for the automatic association, if he didn't maintain, I don't know, a two-year assembly or how much of the law is also prescribed, that the association is automatically deleted and that in principle local self-government takes over that property that he has and has further with it. Here, with these few remarks and the real problem this with those three members of the founders of the association, without these material and financial elements, I definitely don't think the law is good and that it will cause more problems, that local self-government will suffer, for these reasons, without such improvements, I am definitely not prepared to support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78855	Damir Tomic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78856	Thank you, Vice President. Here, buddy, you've been in local self-government for 15 years because you're trying to protect exclusively local self-government and local self-government leaders. So who will finance associations in cities and municipalities if not local self-government. I couldn't agree with your idea that local self-government units should be asked if this association is worth establishing. Well, I guess you'll figure out when they're working for a year or two, if you need to give them the funds. We know how unfortunately this works in most local self-government units, money gets those associations that are close to the authorities. Well, then let's not keep them from setting up 'cause they don't like the mayor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78857	Branko Hrg, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78858	My dear colleague, I've just listed the problems we're facing and I said it's primarily sports associations. And when a sports association is established, when the club registers, when it enters the competition system, then the club looks for either the stadium or the playground or the hall and looks for dates in that hall, and it joins the community of sports associations under the second law and starts to work because the community of sports associations has to take it practically into the system in which and then we get into trouble. So, it's a normal thing, not because the head of local self-government likes it or doesn't like to discuss it before, that it knows exactly how this club will work, how many children will gather, how many young people, where it will compete, what its goals, in which the rank will compete, and thus also those clubs, associations that are founded practically open one time, one quality way of working. That's the point of the story. And don't talk about how a local leader likes it or doesn't like it again, it has nothing to do with it. There's no local leader, I believe, at least there may be exceptions, who doesn't want to have associations, who don't want to have clubs, who doesn't want to have young people who are involved in sports or any other activity. But he definitely needs to know what's going on that he could secure working conditions, if he doesn't know it in advance, especially in sports, it's very hard to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78859	Comrade Shandor Juhas, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78860	Dear President, dear colleagues. So I welcome to make order in associations, associations... different activities, a colorful spectrum, right, and names are charred. Perhaps you should pay attention to the registration of associations as well. We have at the local level an association that founded, I don't know, three members so it's called the World Association or the World Congress. I think there's a need to pay attention to that, too, and that's why if there's anything else that needs to go into order. I also have a problem with the fact that one law tries to get rid of this vast, colorful spectrum of bird lovers, I don't know the different sports clubs, and I don't know the associations of national minorities. I come from an area of national minorities, and I don't know how the alliance will work in the future, because we have two alliances at the level of Croatia, so they all have over 40 associations, but we'll see how it goes. I think that generally this law is one big advance compared to the last one. However, I am particularly offended by Article 34. I said something about it on the board. Article 34 shows that "the association that implements programmes and projects of interest for general well-funded from public sources cannot participate or support the political party or other persons in the election promotion". Now we've come a little bit to a ski slope because more or less all associations have been established because, besides those special goals, they act on citizens' consciences, that in some ways they direct some kind of political opinion, etc. And that's all good. The problem arises when the association is involved in direct political work and when it appears in the elections. My colleague Domagoj said something about this, but we meet at local level with this problem all the time. What's going on? We had last year's elections for local self-government and then the association starts signing coalition agreements, publishing posters with these coalition partners, holding press conferences, then to this day presenting itself as a political party, and I think that article should be reformed in a certain way, it needs to be done to prevent such things. Why? So the explanations that we've been given to do so by others, that we make a request to the DIP, and they answer that and they tell us, so you're not part of the election promotion. So then we send a letter to the State's Attorney's office that's been there for a year, so it doesn't answer or answer because the law so far has been regulated that an association that deals with activities that aren't prescribed by its statute is automatically deleted, so we don't have any answers to that. The problem is deeper in nature. If such associations are financed only by public money or received support from abroad, then the question is, who does this affect political opportunities in certain local environments? Because if this political activity is not financed from money from the state budget or local self-government or state money, then the question is, who does it finance? Is it some kind of foreign trust, is it a foreign state? This is a deeper problem that should also be resolved and must be answered by that particular article. I'd like to warn you of another problem. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. We've warned the board, and I think it's going to have to be done. Article 4 The constitutional law he decidedly says that associations of national minorities can propose a candidate for a parliamentary representative or for councils and representatives of national minorities. So you need to sit down and find some kind of compromise solution. I would warn of another problem, which is the law on the financing of the accounting of non-profit associations that has already been adopted. It will also create and open a big one or it will be the first reading, well, then we'll discuss it there because the criteria of the National Minorities Council that allocates the money tell us that jobs cannot be transferred to a third party. So if one association of national minorities gets a million kunas to accomplish their programs, they can't transfer those jobs, but on that basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78861	Thank you very much. And colleague Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78862	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. A few remarks on this bill. First of all, the area of the association is pretty messy, not to say messy and that it needs to be arranged, it's not at all controversial. If we have just heard that science stands out just as much as in the budget a year as in NGOs, then it needs this society and primarily politics concerned, not to promote such attitudes. If only in a year and a half of the budget had been allocated to NGOs, if it had been singled out into the disposal system, no house would be in danger, the water would not have come near any house, let alone submerged houses and people, just for a year and a half as isolated as it was by NGOs. But the budget is the face of politics. So we're all happy to talk about the Peljesk Bridge in one way or another, but that for a year and a half, instead of associations for the Pelješke Bridges, it's just enough to build the Peljeski Bridge. One year and a half of the budget funds allocated to NGOs. But that's also the face of politics. In 10 years, we've charged 15 billion kuna with interest on average 6% to pay 15 billion kuna to NGOs. I am afraid to publicly show what could be done and what could be done with all that money in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, let alone how much savings it would be if we hadn't been so in debt and paid interest. But here are some concrete remarks on the bill. The concept of the association, Article 4, states that this is also every form of free and voluntary association of several natural or legal persons who, in order to protect their breakthroughs. Well, you shouldn't, shouldn't, shouldn't be interested in joining members of the Association to protect their breakthroughs. Well, profit is one of the most direct forms of personal breakthroughs. This stimulates what is forbidden by law. I don't think this definition is very adapted to the purpose of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Whoever wants to carry out the economic activity should establish a limited liability company or a shareholder company, so associations can do so. Therefore, whoever carries out the economic activity permanently in accordance with the Company Act, these are capital companies, so let him establish a limited liability company and carry out economic activity in accordance with the law. Founding an association. I don't think it's a rational solution that you didn't accept the proposal to make it more members than three. Well, three people aren't enough for even White Minister Bauk, they're looking for a fourth for a quality white one, but it's not enough for a white one, let alone for one association. The association is a serious matter. And I think there's not enough three members. And out of those three founders, imagine all three can be minors. I said you didn't answer and I'd like you to answer me, you forbid, under quotes "you," children by the age of 16 that I can't have a ID card and these 14-year-olds you give the right to be, to manage, to represent associations. And illogically. By the age of 18, he has no right to vote in the elections and at the age of 14, he has the right to vote not and to represent the association and to be president of some big sports bench. So what is child manipulation? Well, these are kids' childhoods, they're being manipulated, and this kind of solution, I'm sorry for the expression, but it's really pretty creepy for me and... To manipulate children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I can take the impression that she's sleeping here as a child defender when she sees such a bill of law. At the age of 16, do you know the Minister, when he was 16, why couldn't his I.D. have a child? Because he's changing his appearance too fast, his physical appearance so he can't change his ID every three months. But changing the brain in that period of life is even faster than the face and that's not the law that's taking care of it. It's about the mental part of the child. That I think would be real. As for membership in the association, let it remain, but has no right to vote and no one has the right to manipulate it, should not have the right to vote, but may be a member of the association and a minor rather than be manipulated with it. If anyone wants to manipulate a child, let him do so himself and leave the child alone even if it is his own child. I have already said about economic activity, places here have no economic activity in this way unless it is said that the economic activity can be done by the association provided that it registers a limited company responsible for carrying out certain economic activities. Here you are saying that Article 17(5) and I have submitted the amendment in this regard, the legal solution says that the mandate of elected members in the assembly is prescribed by the statute of association. The law would have to disable the manipulation of any kind. So here we should limit the term of office to 4 years but never let the new founders, which three minors can be the founding of an association and 50 years after the statute have a mandate and the law allows. This is not good, this law should prevent such manipulations and the law should limit the duration of the term of office of the elected members of the assembly rather than leave it to those who apply it to themselves. It's becoming socially very dangerous. The person authorised to represent is a business-affiliated natural person but it is said that out of 3 must at least 1 be business-affiliated. That means that 2 are minors and can be, with minors and business incompetents. I'd like to hear if it's natural for you. It's natural for some to have sex with minors. We can also take countries where it's... But it's unnatural. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the most dangerous thing to play with children. As far as decisions and congregational decisions are concerned, it is not disputed to manipulate associations, to retroactively write the records, and I think it should be prescribed that the public notary should verify all the records of the congregations and the list of founders. It means when a list of founders and a congregation of founding and each congregation is established, the next public notary to be an author of such congregations. It is also necessary in this debate that a special Law on Sports Associations is needed, it has shown all the discussions, because they are specific and let us not put them into such a variety of other associations when they actually create a large part of the problems and are specific, so they should be regulated in particular by law only to apply the law to them. According to this logic, Minister Bauk, a minor may even be the legal representative of the First League Club tomorrow, a minor. Maybe Hayduka can't, because Hajduk is a stock company, but these others could all or who came to the first league. So let's not allow such things in advance or manipulate them. Well, which would actually be publicly puzzled if someone dared to do something like that, and by law, that's what makes it possible. As far as the asset solution is concerned, it shall be handed over at the end of the association, establishment or foundation which has the same or similar constitutional objectives. This is too broad a term, and there are associations that have a great value of real estate and there should be a solution to know exactly that there should be no manipulation where the property of a particular association goes, and not to leave it to the individual that he is among these broad concepts looking for where he can in his own interest direct that property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78863	And the final word of the proposer, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78864	Yes, as far as card games are concerned, and white can be played in two, and not that in student days was the most. Preference in three, towels in two, four, etc. E means let's first of all from ID to here. It means Article 3. The personal identity code of a person over 16 years of age who has residence in the Republic of Croatia is obliged to have an identity card. The second right to an identity card has a person under the age of 16 who has a residence in the Republic of Croatia. So they can be under 16 years old, not as limited as they are. It's the only period of personal life I've been thinking about for five years, so. As for these provisions on the person authorized to represent there, there is a provision that he must have a business capacity. Now, it seems to me that there are disfellowshipped minors except in case they've acquired business ability in a way that they've become parents or they're employees, then they have the right to, then I think they have the right to. That's how when he's 15 he can work. There are other provisions in the Family Law when a person who is a minor is entitled to another marriage, etc. Therefore, these exceptions, but in general it is a restriction to enable them to be mostly adult. And as far as the founders are concerned, it's also limited. As for the role of attorney for children, we had a meeting with her on the subject of these provisions in the making of this law. Of course, it is to expect that there will be an emphasis on these provisions that concern, so children, and I would refrain from other big words in that regard. So I read the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Children, and I think it is, therefore, that these provisions are well measured on the role of minors. As for the number of persons needed to establish association number three has been in force since 2001, so we don't really change anything, we leave the current situation. And it's very difficult to talk about any restrictions or restrictions on the association. We are these restrictions that we have put into the law, that is, the obligation to make things more transparent than it is right now, and I don't think we've limited the freedom of association, but we've prescribed certain rules when people freely join together. And that's why I think that such provisions are sustainable from the aspect of constitutionality and freedom of association that are normally in the article, I think it's 43. The constitution is just saying that people are freely teaming up amongst other things for the breakthroughs they have. And someone in the debate said that associations are set up on purpose, that some associations are set up on purpose. I think all associations are set up on purpose, because otherwise, very rarely, three or five of them meet and now without the goal of establishing an association. Therefore, it is the definition of the association and the definition of free association of citizens. It is up to us that when they freely joined them to prescribe what it is that a state is required for some minimum control to prescribe that they have. It is an interesting philosophical question to say whether it can be prescribed that the term of office lasts for 50 years. It is, they have a mandate that prescribes the statutes and if they want to change it, then they will change the statutes. And if not, the question is who would join an association where the next election will be in 50 years. Maybe someone would, but now it's a question of how much we have to influence it. If someone volunteered and they all agreed to make it so much, then so much. No, of course it could be less, it could be six months, it could be a year, it could be four years. It's kind of the usual term of office, but it's not always. We also have the possibility of two years, a year as already agreed on. I wouldn't limit it further. The question of the operation of the association is quite a broad question. So from the data we have on the number of associations, about the growth of the number of associations shows that people are actually using their constitutional right to free association and I say in the state that some rules are prescribed not to restrict free association but to prescribe rules on how such associations must behave. We have an objection on the other side, which is that we've passed the law. So there are associations that think that the current solution, which I think is a little bit undernourished, is good, and that this is going in too much norming. There were various ideas, primarily coming from the experiences that each of us had in particular working with associations. We have associations that have their own internal problems, so that where they're quarreled and divided into multiple groups, factions, and then these problems usually transfer them to registration bodies, and then they talk against each other, they want to replace these, they want to replace them and so on. These are usually the most common problems that we face in the work of the registration bodies either at the second stage. And most often the problem is that they were just not clear in the statutes and in the law certain things were normable. I believe this law will fix it a little bit. Although wherever there's a conflict, and there's usually a conflict where there's money, there's still some things we're going to have to solve. Given the amendments we have received and the specific proposals put forward in the debate, we will until the vote on the law is clear on the amendments. I thank everyone who participated in the debate. Here is after 10 hours spent in the Assembly as one MP today said a softer approach to valorize it in terms of a softer approach, then I will also end up on a softer approach, thanking everyone who participates in the debate and to some other legal text that I am thanking the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78865	Thank you very much, Minister. And the replica, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78866	Mr. Minister, when it comes to the mandate of elected representatives, then I only suggested that I limit the upper limit because it would lead to absurdity. And you say who, if someone predicts a 20 or 50-year term, will join such an association? Well, it's not intended for them to join that association. What you think most of these associations are, their goal is to be on the budget, not to have as many members as possible. That's their goal. And the goal is that no one ever joins the association and interferes with the work of the association. The goal is for most associations, honor of exceptions and honorable exceptions, to be a closed association, which is the goal of most associations. And as for the ability and the child's ability to decide, I don't know what logic someone would be more capable at 14 to decide on incomes, expenditures, business balances, business success from going to elections and rounding up a political party. At 18 years of age, he has to wait until he's round to go to the polls and at 14 years of age, you're letting him decide what's most important, economic activity. Well, most of them didn't grow up at 30 on such important issues to decide on economic activity, let alone at 14 years of age. And how immature society shows us the economic situation. They decided a little more experienced than children. Some, though, made decisions worse than children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78867	Replication response, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78868	As far as the decision is concerned, I think it's written with a legal representative, so there won't be a problem. Although what you said last time, I can agree. As for the duration of the mandate and the closure of the associations, the next question is, so I think it's not the association that's the problem, it's the one that gives them the money. So, he should be careful if the money he gave, and that's what we've just sharpened. So also the government regulation and the obligation to publish reports in the Association Register, now only writes the name and last name of the authorised person and when those objectives are entered in two lines and the name of the association and the seat. So these are the provisions we have additionally served. And as far as the association's incarceration is concerned, it's a matter of free association again. So if someone wants 10 or 3 of them to be shut down, society will be closed. If they're working for the common good, then I don't see what's bothering the state. If the programs that a few of them are a closed society in the sense that they don't receive anyone from themselves, so if they do and if one who needs to evaluate them, and always the question of who evaluates the evaluators is the same good question, they think they're doing well they'll work that way. Because first of all, no one forces them even if they prescribed the possibility to receive new members, they would never have to make a decision at the congregation to receive new members. There's always 10 of them left, and the question is, how does that work? So, I wouldn't worry too much about the prisoner of the associations because it's a free association and if someone doesn't like it coming out of the association, they're setting up a new open and if she's in that competition better than this one, it'll be better, and if she's not. The bigger problem is that those who allocate funds, especially budgetary ones, are concerned about how the funds have been spent in such a way as to guide them whether they will be allocated such funds next time. That's a bigger question than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78869	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. My colleagues and colleagues tomorrow at 9.30 p.m., we'll start with the Final Proposal of the Law on the Exemption and Determination of Compensation, and we'll continue with all the laws in the domain of the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much. Session interrupted at 19.45 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78870	Final proposal of the Association Act, second reading, CZ No. 485, the debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am voting the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, by a majority of votes, 80 votes in favour and 18 abstentions, we have agreed to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the representative, he is already here in front of the Honorable Minister of Administration Arsen Bauk to explain the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78871	Amendment No 1 is proposed in order to comply with the other provisions of the same article, so Article 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final draft law, and this applies to Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78872	I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I shall vote on Amendments No 1. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Please report on Amendment 1. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 78 votes in favour and 18 abstentions, have been accepted by Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and have become an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 2. Have you already given your respects to the Minister? It is. Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I ask that we declare Amendment 2 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 78 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 17 abstentions were accepted by amendment number 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Honored Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78873	An amendment is proposed, given that the Government will also accept the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSU and that Article 27 is brought into line with Article 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78874	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 3. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am giving a statement on who is for amendment number 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that Amendment No 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was adopted by a majority of votes, 76 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 16 abstentions. Amendment number 4 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78875	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Given the proposals tabled at the meetings of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on War Veterans, it is a provision for associations, to simplify, to prohibit political parties from voting. Since the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities has explicitly allowed candidateing, and thus supporting associations for the selection of national minorities, we felt that the remaining of such a provision would in some way unjustly lead to a different position of different associations, so we propose that at this time erasure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78876	I am opening a debate on Amendment 4 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I shall make amendments number 4. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour and 14 abstentions, accepted amendment number 4 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and thus became part of the final draft of the law. Moving to plate number 485 of the amendment. Amendment number 1 of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78877	So the amendment proposes to exclude sports associations from the scope of this law. The Government does not accept the amendment, on the grounds that even under the applicable provisions, it is possible to exclude sports associations from the scope of this law if it is regulated by a special law and we do not think there is a need to further strengthen that provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78878	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78879	Your Honor, Mr. President, the minister has said. The purpose of the amendment is not to apply the Law on Associations to sports associations. In addition to our proposal for an amendment, I would also say that the business of sports associations has become perhaps the biggest problem of applying the Association Act as much as some sports associations can register and register as companies. In doing so, they lose everything that is fundamental to the association that they are non-profit organisations. I'm not going to make examples here. It's about some football clubs, and then as companies, they're involved in associations' alliances, which is contrary to the meaning and purpose of the law. We therefore suggested that regardless of what the minister said it was possible, the law explicitly decreed that sports clubs, which were otherwise to be reregistered by the Sport Act, should have long since been reregistered with the exemption from the Association Act and that a special law be passed to regulate the work of all sports clubs. I therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78880	Please state who the amendment number one of the HDZ Representatives Clubs is that the government has not accepted. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 2 of the same club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78881	The amendment therefore proposes that associations cannot carry out economic activity. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Therefore, the principle comes from the purpose of establishing an association defined in Article 4 of the Law. In this respect, it is established without the intention of obtaining profits, which nevertheless does not exclude the possibility for the association to carry out economic activity in accordance with specific regulations primarily because of the possibility of self-financing. It is therefore a matter of regulating the way in which non-profit organisations are accounting, in which it will prevent certain abuses or circumvent certain rules that you have spoken about by explaining the first amendment, but this should not mean that we must also prohibit any economic activity to carry out others.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78882	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78883	So, the meaning of the amendment is something the minister said about it coming out of the sense of the law. The law speaks of associations as non-profit organisations. Their main purpose is not to gain any profit, and if the law does not work in that respect, and if the profit is achieved, it has to be reinvested to say so in the activities of the association for its basic purpose. In view of the fact that this is a very vague norm which, even so far in the application of the Association Act, could and perhaps even misused our proposal to strengthen what is the basic purpose of the association, which is their non-profit, so that the profits of the association cannot be treated as economic activity because it is a de facto profit in economic business based on their work and that associations become what the law and says, which is non-profit organisations that cannot deal with economic activity. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78884	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number two. A HDZ representative club the government has not accepted. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number three of the same club representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78885	The amendment proposes to increase the number and that significant number of persons needed to establish the association. Based on the applicable law and the norm we prescribe and in the new law it takes three people to be the founders of the association. This amendment proposes that this be at least 10, and in some cases even more so in view of the convention provisions that it is from 2 to 10 and that the present proposal, the current law and this proposal satisfy these convention provisions, the Government does not accept an amendment requiring an increase in the number of persons necessary for the establishment of an association.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78886	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78887	Your Honor, Mr. President, the truth is that the freedom of association is further strengthened by the fact that you need a very small number of people to set up associations. That was one of the criteria that used to serve our legislation before. On the other hand, the weight of control and difficulty in controlling the work of the association we think is sufficient reason for this freedom of association to be maintained, but that the number of persons needed to establish the association is still raised to a relatively small number. It's only 10 people, because it's the minimum you'll need in each of the associations to fill in the bodies of the organization at all. The Assembly often has more persons in the Statute than the number of founders is needed, so it can be founded by only three people, and the congregation will have 10, 20 or more members not to talk about other bodies of the management of the association. In view of the flood, so to speak, the association that has often acquired and some legal rights that could not have been realised later, or to guarantee their achievement, we propose to raise this censorship for the establishment of an association from 3 to 10 founders. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78888	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number three of the HDZ Representatives Clubs in the Croatian Parliament that the government has not accepted. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the required majority by grading. Amendment number 4. Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78889	It shall be accepted in an amended form in such a way that Article 11(6) reads: "A person authorised to represent an association may only be a full-time business capable person if her business ability is not taken away from her in the course of legal proceedings."
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78890	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment? There isn't. I'd like to make a statement about this formulation. Who's in? Okay, thank you very much. Who's against this new formulation? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 80 votes in favour, 10 against and 7 abstentions, have accepted the amendment in the formulation as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment No. 5 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78891	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78892	Thank you very much, he became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 6 respected representatives of Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78893	The amendment proposes that all representatives in the assembly be limited to 4 years and that there can be no more or less, so the amendment is formulated. Although in the debate, I understood the intention to prevent someone from having a term of 50 years, I don't think they should legally intervene in this matter, but rather remain in the domain of freedom of association, so whoever loves to choose. For these reasons, the Government does not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78894	Can you repeat the Honorable Minister? That you accepted the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78895	Not to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78896	It's unacceptable. Okay, thank you very much. Then we have to make a statement. There is no honourable representative of the applicant for the amendment. Who is Amendment No. 6 respected representatives of Goran Maric? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 7 Legislative Committee, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78897	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78898	Thank you very much, he became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 8 Clubs of HSU Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78899	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. If the competent office does not adopt a decision on the entry in the Register of the Association within 30 days of the date of submission of the regulatory application, it will be deemed that the association is entered in the Register of Associations the following day after the expiry of that period. Article 9 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I think that this means that the intention which was proposed to predate the entry unless a solution is reached is aligned with the ZUP and I suggest that the Proposer accept such a modified form.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78900	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78901	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78902	Thank you very much, the amendment has been accepted in a changed form. Amendment No. 9 Clubs of HDZ Representatives in the Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78903	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, in the case of a dispute between the members of the association or a conflict of interest which is not settled in a manner prescribed by the statute and by a resolution which is influenced by the entry of a change in the Register of Associations, the procedure shall be terminated by a solution. The government's proposal is that this conflict is resolved by the court, and the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club is to be resolved by an official person. We believe that the official should not address the internal issue of the association but rather that in the event that it is not prescribed by the statute or any other way to resolve it as a previous question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78904	On behalf of the applicant of the amendment, I'm listening. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78905	Excuse me, I don't know if I've heard the Minister very well that the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78906	No, not that he's staying here to solve the court, not the official person.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78907	Yeah, so you won't accept it?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78908	Amendments are not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78909	That's not the one I didn't hear, I'm sorry. Well, then, once again, let's appeal to your understanding. A whole series of laws we pass extends the vast jurisdiction of courts, especially administrative courts. This is about a specific case that the association must act in the event of a dispute and that we think that those who otherwise oversee the work of associations, are involved in registration, can because of the uninterrupted work of the association, so the official persons who oversee their work intervene in such cases. We believe that a court procedure is prescribed to delay the unnecessary delay in this procedure and that it will prevent the normal work of each association. And we believe that it's a conflict that can solve an official person. So I ask that we vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78910	Please state the amendment No. 9 Clubs of HDZ Representatives, which the government has not accepted. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 10 of the same club of MPs, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78911	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78912	Thank you very much, he became an integral part of the final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78913	What can I say?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78914	Thank you. Amendment No. 11 HDZ representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78915	The amendment shall not be accepted under the same reasoning as the amendment no. 2 It is therefore an economic activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78916	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78917	Well, here's the esteemed Mr. President, with the same explanation, we will continue with this amendment. In fact, all economic activities have the right to profit in order to make sense of this economic activity at all. On the other hand, the basic prerequisite for something to be an association is an obligation under the law to be a non-profit organisation. In view of the fact that there has been even so far that economic activity in the work of the associations cannot be adequately monitored at all, we suggest that economic activity as part of the business of the association be deleted and that the association retains only the basic attributes for which it is established. As with Amendment No. 2 please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78918	Thank you very much. Please make your statement on Amendment No. 11 HDZ representatives' clubs that the government has not accepted. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 12 of the same club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78919	Although similar in the text of Amendment No. 10 amendments No. 12 we don't accept. In particular, Article 32 refers to the financing of programmes and projects for general good only from public sources, and the proposed amendment makes no difference between foreign, private and public sources. In other words, the above amendment extends the application of this article to individual donations, private foundations, non-intentioned companies, i.e. public sources. That's why we can't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78920	On behalf of the applicant, amendments to the honourable representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78921	Unfortunately, here's an explanation will be as under our amendment under regular number three, regardless of what the minister has now said as an explanation, so we will also ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78922	Please state the amendment number 12. A HDZ representative club the government has not accepted. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78923	The amendment to Article 34, so Amendment 13 is not accepted by the same reasoning as Amendment 12, adding that one part of the amendment, or its meaning, has been accepted through the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Article 34.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78924	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honorable Representative Davornik Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78925	Here's an apology, now a little longer explanation, even though it's the same thing. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees its Article 38 freedom of opinion and expression of thought, and Article 43 guarantees the right to free association in order to protect breakthroughs or commitment to social, economic, political, national, cultural or other beliefs and objectives. These rights are limited only by the prohibition of the violent threat to the democratic constitutional order, and independence, unity and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. Since cooperation between associations and political parties in Croatia is aimed at achieving the objectives of interest in the general good condition of achieving these objectives. Successful cooperation between associations and political parties in the achievement of programmes and projects of interest for the common good, and the expression of compatible views on issues of interest for the general good and other issues could be seen as a reason for the reimbursement of funds obtained from public sources as well as a difficult environment in the future application of a particular association for public funds. Since I'm not going to read everything because we've given an explanation, there are some associations that are funded, for example. By means of Soroshe's foundation, please consider this and vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78926	Thank you very much. Please make your statement on Amendment 13. A HDZ representative club in the Croatian Parliament that the government did not accept. Who's in? Thank you. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 14. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78927	The amendment is not accepted because the Government has deleted Article 34(3) by its amendment, and the reasons for the proposed amendment have actually shown, so I must stress this once again, so it has deleted the item prohibiting associations from political support for certain political groups, among other things, and because such a provision already exists in the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, where associations are allowed the right to run, and hence also to support individual candidates. So in order not to have double criteria for associations, then at this point there is no possibility or no need to make that restriction. That is true, and here I am responding partly to the explanation of the representatives of the HDZ Club in the previous amendment. So the government doesn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78928	Thank you very much. No response from the Human Rights Committee. So we're going to have to make it clear who is in favour of the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities that the government has not accepted. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 15. Legislative Committee, Honored Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78929	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-21-0.u78930	He became an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final proposal. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 2 abstentions have been passed by the Law on Associations in the text, as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. Good morning, esteemed fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs. We continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. It is next according to last night's notice: - Final proposal of the Law on the granting and fixing of fees, second reading, P.Z. No. 598; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received reports from these committees at the session. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. Honorable Justice Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go, Minister.
