ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70401	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. We're moving on with the session. We will discuss: - The report on the use of EU pre-accession assistance programmes for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2013 was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You have received a proposal for an act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The opening report will be explained by Deputy Minister of Regional Development of EU funds Dr Jaksa Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70402	Thank you. Honorable MPs and MPs. The report on the use of EU pre-accession assistance programmes covers the period from 1 January to 30 June 2013. For years and as such, the last report on the use of pre-accession aid is. However, as we have done in the previous report, we refer not only to the success of the use of pre-accession programmes but also to the preparatory activities for the use of structural instruments of course during the observed time period from 1.1.2013 to 30.6.2013. What was the status of the implementation, arrangements and payment of the IPA program let me brief you on this. All IPA components were, during the observed period, in a high degree of implementation of the contract and payment, where there are differences in the payment and settlement periods in the case of individual components, primarily components 1 and 2 where there is a different system. Since the deadlines for the contract are two years, two years are the deadlines for implementation, and payments can be made another year after the implementation is completed. By contrast, components 3, 4 and 5 have that famous rule N+3 so three years from the programming year when the funds are located they must be spent. Of course, what is the most important amount, so where Croatia is currently located with the negotiation or spending of funds from the IPA pre-accession programme. As you can see in the report, IPA's total agreed funds on 30.6.2013 amounted to 506m euros, so just over half a billion euros were agreed before the pre-accession programme. Given that the total allocation has now increased to 804m euros due to the allocation of allocations for 2012 and 2013, this means that our contract rate to 30.6 was 62.9%. As far as payments are concerned, how much has been paid to project holders in the six months observed from the state budget has been paid 56.6m euros, which is approximately less than 20% of the total funds so far paid, and it amounts to 295m euros. This means that by 30 June 2013, we paid 58.3% of total agreed amounts. A slightly more detailed view of the realization by individual IPA components. The IPA component I expired in the reporting period for the 2009 programming year, so we can really assess whether we were successful or not. Therefore, the contract rate of 93.1% was reached while for the 2010 programming year, which had not yet expired at 45.7%. In the reporting period, an allocation agreement from 2011. As for the 2012 programming year, membership fees have been paid because it is such a possibility for Croatia to pay membership fees from the pre-accession programme for so-called membership. Union programmes. As regards the actual number of contracts, it can be mentioned that the signing of a 20m-euro contract has been achieved, and that 20m euros have been paid only for the IPA component I. IPA component to hold one balance for a long time, one continuous level and contracts and payments that are going around 40m euros per year. So this semi-annual score is absolutely consistent with that average. IPA component II, cooperation with non-member countries through cross-border cooperation programmes. The agreement rate ranges from 88.8% in the cross-border programme with the Republic of Serbia to 99.8% in the cross-border programme with BiH. With regard to transnational programmes covering several countries such as the Mediterranean and Southeast Europe, these are also the rates of bargaining, but also the spending is very high, so between 87% and 96% in the contract, and in payments between 69% and 80%, but I note that there is still a period of payment of funds. IPA component III, this is the component that is being re-imposed to areas of investment from structural instruments means structural funds and cohesion funds. It includes three components of transport, environmental protection and regional competitiveness. As regards the area of transport, the total contracted assets in the area of transport amounted to 68.9%, which means approximately 59% of the total allocations. Of which 40m euros were paid, which means 58.7% of the contracted funds. Eight tenders for 8 projects were announced in the 6-month period, 5 contracts were signed, and 13 contracts were implemented. To mention only the most significant projects that were completed during the observed period. It is a system of signal-safe devices on Zagreb's Main Station, and another major project is still under way, it is Okucani, so the reconstruction and reconstruction of the Okucani-Novska railway. Environmental protection. In the area of environmental protection, 84m euros were agreed. On 30 June 2013, 30 million euros and 35% of the contracted funds were paid. Here is a somewhat slower dynamic of the payment of funds compared to the dynamics of the contract, since contracts also cover the project design period, while of course the largest items come after the completion of the design when moving towards the implementation of the project. In March 2013, amended bilateral agreements were signed, this is very important, for the project of building county waste management centres, Mariščina and Kastijun, which significantly increased the share of EU funding. The original stakes were 45% for Marishina and 48% for Kastijun. These changes that we made in agreement with the Commission raised the share to 70% with Mariščina 70.9 and to 71.4% for Kastijun. As regards component 3C Regional competitiveness, on 30.6., 64.8% and 79% were agreed, respectively, and as regards payments, we reached 35m euros in paid funds, so over 50, i.e. 54.5% of the contracted funds. The regional competitiveness component includes investments in the weakest developed areas in Croatia, 10 of the least developed counties, in the field of science, i.e. research and development, cooperation with the economy and entrepreneurship, thus offerings for small and medium-sized enterprises. Component 4 Development of human potential. On the 30.6th day, we contracted 56m euros, or about 60% of the allocations, and 39.9 and 71% of the contracted funds were paid. Under this component projects are financed to improve access to employment and labour market inclusion, support to disadvantaged groups, thus disabled and other vulnerable groups, improve human capital, improve the education system and strengthen the role of civil society. Component 5, this is the component where we had a lot of problems at first. We are currently in a situation where we have contracted 65m euros, so the IPARD of the 129m euros allocated, so over 50%. As for payments up to 30.6.2013, 18.5m euros were paid. We currently have 292 projects from this component of IPARD that are contracted and for which they last or have already been paid or completed. As for the data on irregularities, therefore, another very important area of interest, of course, and interest. Finally, as of 30 June following irregularities identified in the European Union budget, a return of 870,000 euros was made. Of these, 790,000 euros are related to the first four components and the rest to the IPARD. So it's about pretty small amounts that we can really be satisfied with. Of course, it still needs to be done to bring about irregularities as much as possible. In particular, irregularities mainly relate to infringements in public procurement procedures. There have also been cases of conflict of interest in procurement procedures and certain unacceptable costs. The part that we have recently introduced in our reports is the part that concerns information related to the preparation for the use of EU funds during the observed period, so here are a few main highlights from this area. During the reporting period, it was necessary to complete in due time the activities of establishing a legislative and institutional framework for the use of structural instruments after membership. Before the implementation of the so-called the procedure for assessing the compliance of the management and control system of the use of structural instruments, etc. accreditation was necessary to complete the process of drawing up common national rules. These are the rules that actually create a framework for the standardised use of structural instruments for the first 6 months of membership. Based on this framework, all the bodies in the system have developed their internal procedures in the form of internal manuals on conduct which also make the documentation necessary for obtaining a positive opinion within the accreditation process. So this is for the reason that you get a sense of what a significant job it is. It is important to note that during the reporting period the system compliance assessment procedure was initiated by the national authority, i.e. ARPA. It is also important to note that programming documents have been completed during the observed period. So as far as the accreditation process is concerned, and as regards the process of drawing up programming documents in the first half, it is because national authorities have done a huge, huge job. What you know about accreditation remains another unresolved issue, it's a matter of system. We are still waiting for a positive opinion from the European Commission. Croatian authorities have done their part of the job as far as the ministries are concerned. The ARPA's opinion is still pending, so our agencies and, of course, the European Commission's opinion will then have a fully accredited system. As for programming for the new programming period '14-20, during the first half the working bodies are so-called Thematic working groups shall continue to work on identifying development priorities and on the indicative allocation of financial resources at individual priorities. Informal dialogue with the European Commission on the process of documenting has also been launched since formal communication and dialogue with the European Commission can only be started after 1.1.2014. At the Ministerial Coordination meeting on 22 May 2013, it was decided to take place in the Republic of Croatia in the financial period '14-20. implement three operational programmes. These are the operational programme for competitiveness and cohesion, which will include investments from the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund. The second operational programme refers to the development of human resources and relates to investments from the European Social Fund. The third programme refers to the technical assistance programme. The specific operational programme relating to rural development, which will be financed by the European Rural Development Fund, as well as the operational programme for fisheries, should also be joined. As regards the partnership consultations, i.e. the involvement of the general public in the programming process 2014/20. in the reporting period, the first step was achieved, therefore. Public consultations were launched with conferences held in Zagreb on 6 June and 7 June. The same process was subsequently continued in December, which we will report to you in the next report. As regards administrative capacity, therefore another area where the Government has adopted a clear employment plan, i.e. an increase in the number of employees. So far, 173 jobs have been opened since the plan envisioned the opening of 220 jobs. In some ministries, some state bodies still have this process, so I believe that despite all the constraints of the state budget, we will be able to reach the target number during this year. But here's the fact that we've opened 173 jobs to manage structural instruments since the government's decision, that was in June 2013. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70403	Thank you very much. Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70404	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Mr. Pugliz, you spoke of the success of using pre-accession EU funds. I've been on several of your presentations, and I have to say that these are mostly 2011 projects, actually projects that you've received from the HDZ Government and then you've talked about success and administrative capacity, and you know that the European Commission has actually warned you that there are not enough quality administrative capacity, i.e. that there are not enough experts and knowledge to take advantage of the opportunities offered by EU funds. To point out that from 1.7.2013 to the end of the year, the Republic of Croatia has paid billions and 800 million kunas, so today it should think a lot about how and how to withdraw these funds from EU funds, given the sub-capacitation of administrative and knowledge of the withdrawal of funds from EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70405	Replication response, Deputy Minister Jaksha Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70406	I need to introduce you to the fact that as far as the project's preparation is concerned, of course part of the project that was prepared continued to be implemented, the negotiation and payment procedures were continued. That was reasonable. However, the general state of preparation at the beginning of 2012 was not great. What we have mentioned to you in the report is just one small indicator of this preparation. The fact that we had to amend the Finance Treaty for Mariščina and Kaštjun, two waste management centres where the contract was concluded in a way that the Republic of Croatia had to provide more than 50% of the funds. So, what's de facto as ready as it was. So that's what the government had to deal with, the changes that increased the co-financing rate from 45 to 70, from 50 to 75, etc. All the major projects that were de facto mentioned before 2012 were not like preparatory projects, in fact they were far from prepared. We're still dealing with the de facto of their preparation. The largest project Long Village – The Crossers we are still working on buying land, but we have speeded up the process so quickly that we are sure that we will finish our work in time. So the contractors will have absolutely no problems when they start. So it is a matter of project preparedness when it is said that something has been sent to Brussels and that means that everything is prepared is not. There was a lot going on in Brussels where we had a state of purchase of land of 10%, where we were the number of building permits issued by one of the 21st. So the thing is really relative. As regards the preparation of projects for the use of structural instruments, I will also point out to you that the currently open procurement procedures for projects worth 400m euros are open when we talk about individual projects above 10m euros. It's all easy to check. As for the so-called so-called. Public calls for grants for smaller projects are currently the condition that we have 130m euros of open competitions that draw allocations from structural instruments. Therefore, whether it is the European Regional Development Fund or the European Social Fund or the IPARD, that is now the location that we will finance under the IPARD rules of the European Rural Development Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70407	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70408	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, this Report and the use of pre-accession funds should, in principle, be a matter of speaking out in a certain way to train all institutions from civil society to units of local self-government and state for important infrastructure projects for the use of EU funds. And it's a traditional story. When you file the report, nothing was a disaster, like this. However, the agreement by 2011 was 94, 95%, so you can say whatever you want. That's the facts. However, I expected you today to hear something else, given that Croatia has already paid the first tranche of its membership in the EU, to tell us here as a representative of the ministry that is leading in the future to worry about what administrative preparation is like for the countries primarily the local self-government unit. Because most EU funds will be allocated to local self-government units and it is very important whether the local self-government units have done what they need in these past two years. Practically, in some new structure, each unit of local self-government larger than some cities across the county should have a management department for the use of EU funds. If this is not done then we can say that we are not ready to use EU funds. However, I have not heard of a single word from you, and I think that MPs are far more interested because you are looking at the percentage of you if you have some big project of 20 or 30 million euros at the time when you respond the percentage jumps by 30, 40, 50% and you know it very well, and then politically as it suits you. But these are facts that no one can use politically but these are facts that can mean good or bad to us tomorrow, but since you didn't say that you obviously don't deal with this problem. I'm telling you that's a crucial problem at this point in the Republic of Croatia, not what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70409	Replication response, Yaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70410	Data on liability and payments only indicator you can say one level at the moment of... capacity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What matters is, of course, the question of the future because this is backwards. As far as the future is concerned, I can agree with you that indeed local self-government units are one of the key issues of total absorption. However, there you should know that the Government is not almighty and that the Government cannot make 550 units of local self-government suddenly enlightened in a way that absolutely puts them as a priority of their functioning to prepare for the use of structural instruments. It must be self-aware so to every leader of local self-government. And the government is doing a lot for that. It is enough to look at our web portal, structural funds so that you can just look at the events that we organised locally and informatively educational nature where we really gave them all possible information from the first hand, familiarize them with key data and warn them that for preparation, the use of the European Funds should be started not today but yesterday. However, often in the budgets, units of local self-government do not see enough addressed to this preparation. We are aware that there are significant fiscal constraints but also every local self-government leader must know that he still has a certain maneuvering space, that he makes decisions together with representative bodies. Whether those funds that are still available will target the realization of some minor municipal procedures or will direct them in the preparation of a project documentation for some major serious projects for which they will receive 85 or 90% of EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70411	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Grubisic, Cain, were reported but were not present, so the club lost the right to debate on this point, and on behalf of SDP representative Dražko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70412	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, this report on the use of EU pre-accession assistance programmes, so for the first 6 months of last year, as well as the one we had both seen for those half-year periods from 2012 is very detailed in the figures presented, clearly visible in the details of the movement or dynamics of the IPA programme. It is good to briefly repeat the figures he spoke of and the respected deputy to make it easier to adopt them and therefore to understand trends, trends, and the purpose of submitting this report. Therefore, over 73m euros in the observed period have been found at the expense of the national fund, representing just over 20% of the total resources available in this IPA programme. Over 80m euros and 15.9% of IPA's total contracted funds were also agreed. The total amount we are talking about is 804m euros, which has been available since the beginning of 2007 and nearly 63% of that amount has been reported so far. In this period, end-users were paid a total of over 56 million euros and slightly more than 19% of the total amount paid during the first half of last year. Therefore, as of 30 June 2013, more than 58% of the total agreed amounts of all components of this IPA programme were paid. So when we put it together a little bit, all these elements of the IPA program, the percentage of the liability of the allocated funds per component ranged from 50,28-93,74% and the percentage of the payment of the contracted funds ranged from 28,4-almost 80%, which we found a pretty good result. By the end of June, this reporting period refers to up to 1.7. to the date of Croatia's entry into the EU, 58.32% of the total agreed amount of all components of the IPA programme since the beginning of 2007. When we talk about the success of withdrawing funds from EU funds, this success can be determined very explicitly. Therefore, according to clear figures, the figures are therefore the first amount of the contracted funds was, therefore, in the total available amount, as agreed, the amount paid and the amount returned to the EU budget due to the delay in the withdrawal of funds. We therefore see from this report that, within the IPA programme implemented, from 2007 to 2007, 804m euros available until the end of the June period, more than 506m euros were agreed on by Croatia to join the EU. I think that we can be quite satisfied with this amount because it should be noted that this percentage will continue to grow because uncontracted funds can be negotiated, spent until the end of 2016. It is necessary to repeat that the most significant killing is to execute the contract because the deadlines of the contract are soon running out and Croatia is subject to the N+3 rule so for all components of IPA other than this second component, which is a 1+2 rule, so that from the moment of the contract it remains a three-year period to be agreed and realised. A high percentage of the contract is also likely to be realised in the next 3 years from the date of the contract. If that percentage were to grow, I would say it confirms the recent data from the ministry, which is available to all, on further significant growth in the total amount of these contracted funds. So, it's not standing in a place, it's working, and I'd say very well. So the latest data suggests the value of the newly agreed projects in the first 2 years of the government's mandate was 309m euros. If we know, therefore, that only 247m euros were agreed in the previous 5 years, 2007 to 2012, then we see that there was a significance in this field, clearly visible I would say, progress. And in this reporting period, compared to the previous period, progress has been made in the negotiation of something less than 4%, but the progress of the contract is obviously continued. Here I would highlight this IPA III as the highest component of the IPA program, which records a very good rate of total agreement of 66% and the second highest component of IPA I records the total contract rate of 65.35%. In relation to this previously observed period, the most significant progress in the negotiation was therefore made precisely in component III of the IPA programme. By 31 December 2012, a total of 168.24m euros were agreed, while in the observed period, 217.96m euros were agreed at the end of the observed period, indicating an increase in that contract of almost 23% in this observed period compared to the total period from 2007 to 2012. Here, while we are already talking about this component of the III IPA programme, in particular I, in the operational transport programme, would point out that progress has been made in terms of investment in rail infrastructure. Since it is often here in the assembly, it has also been said about the discussion of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency, I dispute progress in this area. Thus, during the implementation phase, there were 8 contracts relating to the reconstruction and reconstruction of the railway on Okushani-Novska, contracts for the implementation of security signal, hence signalling and telecommunications devices, further to the preparation of the project of the construction of the new two-way train line Goljak-Skradnik, the preparation of the project for the upgrade and reconstruction of the Križevci-Koprivnica stock, the state border, the preparation of the project of upgrade and construction of the new railway on the part of Hrvatski Leskovac-Karlovac and the construction of a project documentation for the construction of the business building of the Railway Safety Agency. During the same period, the implementation of a large infrastructure project was completed, a system of signal security devices at Zagreb's main station. Therefore, it is evident that the strategic definition and focus on the development of rail infrastructure by this government is, and this pays particular attention to the policy of exploiting EU funds and in this area of improving rail infrastructure, there is an expression and focus on attracting funds from 5 access funds and for these projects of railway development. Which is obviously good training for what follows us. It is to remind primarily this priority direction of the state border of Botovo-Zagreb-Rijek. But let us go back to the general figures of this report because the analysis of each part of this report would surely exceed the time set for this debate. Of these general figures, I find it important to note that, in absolute terms, the funds available within this reporting period account for an increase of almost 13m euros. Furthermore, by looking at the progress made in payments, it is another component when assessing the success of attracting pre-accession funds, the greatest progress made compared to the previous period was made precisely in that component III of the programme and amounts to over 24m euros, or over 23% of the total amount paid since 2007. So, in addition to a significant one, I would say boom at the position of the bargaining, there is clearly a visible progress in relation to the determined, i.e. the funds paid. When we talk about the third element under which we evaluate success in the formula, therefore the overall success of attracting funds from pre-accession funds, it should be noted that only three cases of irregularities have been reported during this period. Therefore, a total return of only 0.87m euros was made, which is an extremely good result, and this is what I would say about almost negligible figures. It should be pointed out that the report continued intensively and carried out preparatory activities for the use of structural funds and cohesion funds, as we can see from the report at a good pace and dynamics. In the context of strengthening administrative capacity at national level, regular education programmes related to the management of EU funds have been organised and implemented. During these educational activities are related to the preparation and implementation of projects, a total of 194 students educated. They are organised as we see informative educational events called EU Regional Funds Days in cities across Croatia as well as respected deputy with the purpose of informing and educating potential EU users to the funds and opportunities available to them both on these pre-accession funds and what follows them for the period from 2014. We especially highlight these activities because we find that such activities need to be kept as much as possible. The conditions of applying to these programmes, therefore, for the purpose of achieving, or attracting funds from EU funds, and the conditions of realisation of these funds are not simple at all, require great knowledge and effort and, of course, the preparation of potential applications will depend largely on our overall result in attracting these funds. A part of the work on workshops dedicated to journalists, as well as the Central Agency for the Financing and Negotiation of EU programmes and projects, has conducted a total of 25 educations. In view of the above, we from the SDP Club that this extremely important segment of education and practice is aimed at increasing the preparedness and ability of domestic entities to apply to these funds, and we recommend that these activities be intensified. That, at the level of the executive authority, little is left to the government in this area and the fact that a working group for EU funds has been established and members from the ranks of state officials, management presidents, directors and directors-generals have been appointed in that group. And the task of working together is to monitor progress and prepare the implementation of 9 investment projects compared to these deadlines set in the procurement plans. The establishment of this group is an example of good practice that such complex procedures should be conducted and coordinated in order to ensure maximum coordination and synergies of all relevant entities in this process. When we talk about the EU's structural funds theme, it is clear that pre-accession funds were just an exercise for the right thing. The entry into full membership has opened up significantly more resources and opportunities and it is extremely important that we prepare ourselves well for this. In this reporting period, as we see from this document which is before us, the programming process for the new EU financial period has been continued, so from 2014 to 2020, which we welcome anyway. Finally, the report itself concludes that the data are shown in it that these data are an indicator of the trend of further significant growth in performance, negotiation, payment and allocation of funds by the European Commission and the overall satisfactory dynamics of the use of pre-accession funds. We from the SDP Club to such a finding really have nothing to add but to fully agree with it. The figures are accurate, the figures say that both well and quality were done and that the results are quite good when we talk about this success of attracting funds from pre-accession funds, and we believe it will be even better because we mention the pre-accession funds we can use over a time period of another two and three years, respectively. Therefore, a clear SDP club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70413	Young Novak replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70414	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Pandek, since you kind of called me for a debate two days ago when it was a debate on the Railway Market Regulatory Agency, so I have to remind you that that was the time when it was about railway operators, not infrastructure. It's two completely separate things and they don't have touch points if we're to be honest. And when you mention rail infrastructure, where investment in those regional and local railways is far more important to us. These are so-called. The corridors that were actually corridors are no longer, but that is something that is a reserve direction for EU needs, not just for our needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70415	The answer to the replica Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70416	Thank you. In fact, I didn't call anyone, but I looked back because in that debate a few days ago when we talked about the Railway Market Regulatory Agency went off topic and it was also talked about pre-accession funds, and it was clear that almost no project was clearly said that no project from EU funds was provided for the improvement of rail infrastructure, so I needed to read the correct information here. And as for the directions that have priority, I think there is no more priority direction than the state border of Botovo-Zagreb-Rijek due to the development and improvement of transport at the Rijeka port and the overall economic impact that this will have on the whole country. It is clear that these smaller local railways should be developed, I can best see in Zagreb that the city railway project is even extremely useful and good. This should be extended as much as possible but clear priorities are priorities, the resources are limited and it should go with certain dynamics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70417	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70418	Your Honor, Madam President. Comrade Pandek, you were talking about the success of attracting funds. You wanted to say that this government is successful at it. This government has not been successful in that as part of the replica, there is little time for me to go into proving it now. We should discuss it, so it stays on track. But we need to know that what's so far been pre-accession funds, what you took, what you didn't take, you didn't lose anything. But now we have to pay $500 million a year and we need the only benchmark of success. If we took 500 million from Europe, we're only at a positive zero. We need to take another 500 million to get something from Europe so we need to take a billion dollars. I don't see any indication in this country that this government would be prepared or that it's capable of withdrawing a billion euros a year. No way, no hope. We will be and we are unsuccessful, unfortunately. By the way, Western Europeans are building in Croatia infrastructure that they prefer to live but that's not a pain in the ass, we have to finance it. Croatia should involve the government in these affairs more than Mr. Puljiz says, it should interfere in a way that money goes mainly into the industry by helping privates reach these funds because Croatia has a lot of infrastructure. We should just invest 5% in the infrastructure. We're out of time. All these projects, stripes, etc., they open jobs. We should throw away all these assets if we could all go into the industry, as much as possible, and as little as possible in the infrastructure as possible because we reinvested in the infrastructure, and that led to everything that we are in today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70419	Replication response, Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70420	Thank you. So, a respected colleague, this is primarily a report on the use of pre-accession funds for the period until Croatia's entry into the European Union, so until 1.7.2013, and it is not about the use of funds from structural funds. But it should be emphasized that there is no place for demagogy and politicization, so here the figures are exact. In the first two years of this term, the government has withdrawn over 300m euros, and only 247m euros have been agreed between 2007 and 2011, and those funds have not been lost so far. So I repeat, we have three years left for most of these programs to use, so it's important to agree, and we are just seeing from this report that the contract and the contract rate have grown exceptionally in these last two years. So these pre-accession funds are training for what follows us, and I think this training especially in the last two years has shown successful results. And since you've already opened this topic of structural funds, I'd say it's not your concern that we're not going to use those funds because we already have over 500 million euros to re-publish competitions from these structural funds. So it is to expect that in that multi-year realisation we will certainly be at about a billion euros per year for the realisation of these funds from structural funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70421	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70422	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Before I refer specifically to this report, I would point out that it must be clear to everyone that a quite comprehensive review, a presentation of the results on the use of the IPA programme will only be able to come somewhere after the completion of all the procedures derived from the programme, which is probably somewhere in 2018. But it certainly matters to him at this half-yearly level, and it's because of three elements. The first is certainly a financial monitoring of the work of the public administration body and the users of the projects, i.e. their joint effectiveness in implementing pre-accession programmes. So we see it from the percentages of the agreed or paid funds. The second element is the specific importance of these projects for the Republic of Croatia, and this can be seen from their description or understanding of the context in which they are implemented. And the third real level of preparation at which the Republic of Croatia is located for the use of funds intended for members of the European Union, for which these pre-accession programmes are intended, so they need to prepare us for that. What does that mean? It involves human potential, knowledge, strategic planning, information, optimisation of financial resources, but also the possession of certain financial resources, or at least the methodology of their exploitation. Looking at the report, I tried to find links to the report for the half-year period 2012, so by the end of 2012, and at some points that I noticed that more work should be done and if I even tried to see progress, I quickly came to one sentence, and there are more in this report that says this: It should be noted that, in the light of the comparative data on the status of the contract, payment and availability of European Union funds, the locations taken into account for the period in question also include additional allocations which were not valid in the previous reporting period and thus, due to the increase in the total amount of the allocations, the comparative data show only the apparent reduction in the dynamics, i.e. the rate of contract and payment. What does that mean? So it talks about the incomparability of certain data, the difficult monitoring of the increase and the overall comparative analyses in this programme. However, this does not prevent the government or representatives of the ministry from persistently speaking in the media about any astronomical increase in productivity in the use of IPA funds in a way that manipulates data by putting them in an inappropriate context. When the data shows some reduction in dynamics, then it's just obvious. So it's not right to take one of these complex substances, take advantage of the fact that it's currently difficult to quantify the data so that the public can be deceived by some great successes because the long-term effect can be the way it can be, which means that unfortunately it can be bad. The fact is that data is difficult to monitor, and there are extensive tables with numerical data in this report that are very difficult to combine for individual components. The final information is that 62.94% of total allocations were agreed during this half-year period, and the previous percentage was 59.11. So now it's 3.83% higher in half a year, so over the past period. It is a real dynamic and it is quite clear that if in half a year the rate is raised by slightly less than 4% that it is not possible in two years of the government's mandate that it is raised by 180% as it is often trying to show. So it's not only unrealistic, it's even I dare say crazy to believe even without this information we have. The previous report also provided information on the withdrawal of funds, i.e. the permanent reduction of funds by the European Commission because we could not use them within the deadline. Now there's no such information. In addition to the information on the withdrawal of funds due to irregularities, there is no information that has been made to recall a reduction in concrete examples. I wonder if it's something that would help users in component V, so rural development, to overcome the problem of non-existent advance payment. Because that same problem will come to the Rural Development Fund. And still as I did a few times when I had the opportunity to talk about this problem I can't help but wonder at the fact that the Regional Development Agency is not implementing the Regional Competitiveness Programme, so Programme 3C. And the reason for this cannot be that there is no need for successful implementation because a fifth of the funds for the 2009 Allocation programme were called off right in the term of office of this government. And it remains to see what and how, how will implementation be shared in structural funds. The last part of the Report is referred to the continuation of preparations for the use of EU funds after membership and in the chapter of strengthening administrative capacity for the management of European funds. He's talking about new employment in the state service. It's okay if people are gonna help you make better withdrawals. But so far in the impasses of public administration, I think you could find people who were willing to be educated, for some retraining so you could do that job. So I don't know why the government is underestimating its own public administration and believes that among the existing staff there are not those who could be educated to work in European funds. And the European Commission itself, as the previous report formulates, says that the engagement of an additional number of employees should be done through internal advertising. I would conclude, therefore, that it is inappropriate to use some of the data to show up to God’s great success but that is the only way to create a paradox. Because if everything we've done is fantastic, the simple question is, where are the results? It's already hard to hear how the previous government, these and those are to blame for their absence. What's important is that we just need to get as much money out of the funds as possible because they're positioned in the seven-year period anyway. So, a period beyond the mandate of a single government. And what we will be able to see as a result of what I said at the beginning will come about 2018, and then we will see exactly what the results of the pre-accession programmes are and what governments have done from 2007 to 2013. And I'd still look back, although it's not the subject of this report, of some actuality. Therefore, the public is now known through the media, so the issue of accreditation related to the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds despite the intransparency that simply this accreditation is not allocated, or does not exist. My question is still why it came to this. That the situation is complicated, that the software is hard, it doesn't quite fit. It's blurring again. And the question arises as to what is at all the operational programmes 2014/20. They should have known and how it was announced to be made in January this year and at all what would happen to the funds that were not withdrawn. No matter how late they are, I don't think it justifies the fact that we need them now, or yesterday, and that it will have consequences for the economy that is in the situation as it is. I don't think we should talk too much about how this could be called, unfortunately, incompetence or inconsistencies, somehow less said by the government or the restoring ministry in this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70423	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70424	Well, fellow Milas, you mentioned in your discussion that everything was fantastic, and you wondered where the results were. And indeed this story about funds is a complicated story in which skilled politicians such as the Greek minister can deceive the public and bear witness to this report as well, but also many statements that land us from all sides these days. Because if there's so much success, then such a minister can determine that we're only 6 million in plus compared to what we paid for. It's very simple to explain then. Because if you successfully negotiate in those huge percentages or someone who's done something better before, or you haven't done what you should have done. Because these days we're getting hit and talking about this so-called. The software is embarrassing. 150m euros has been announced for several months, and this is about to be paid. It's not paid. And now we hear, there's going to be a second month, a third month because someone hasn't been able to put that story together for two years, even though the preparation has already been made. And another part, and it refers to the very way of thinking about funds. There are several projects here, large projects. These are disposal systems, waste management systems, I don't know one part of the railways, and that's all we're going to do in this Republic of Croatia. What about those 500 local self-governments that have no way of getting any funds or helping the ministry? Are we going to concentrate everything again on some kind of government strategy in big cities so that we all live in big cities? That's one basic story. You little thing can't do anything. And we're surprised that the ministry doesn't want to worry about them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70425	Replication response, Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70426	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Bora, I agree. I just said a few words and said it. So the problem of this area at all, these problems, therefore, regarding European funds, are not simply known enough to the public, I think to ourselves. So the possibility of conditionally manipulating data is simple. It exists and unfortunately it is used. For example, the ministry's website says that the government's mandate speeds up the implementation of projects, so that in two years, the contractors paid 238m euros while the previous 5 were paid only 127. So, the realization is 187% So it's such an illogically inadequate indicator because that something should be paid and planned by some kind of program, something should be done before that, some contract procedure etc. And most of those phases were determined. So it would be correct and fair to tell the whole story the way it is because I say everything that will come and what will be evident will be somewhere in 2018 and that means for 2007, 2013 and then power will be seen who, how much he has done, I hope that as much will be done for the benefit of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70427	Drazen Pandek replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70428	Here's a thank you to a respected colleague in your presentation, so you've looked back on both these and past governments and made a claim that this government is in principle a failure to attract funds. But I think the numbers here are exact. The numbers show. So when we talk about it, when you started the topic, the former government had to repay as much as 40 million euros because of its slowness in 2008. The 25m-euro total location for the IPARD programme has been lost. In 2011, 40 million euros had to be paid back, and in 2012, that return was reduced to 15 million euros and reduced to below five million euros in 2013. So when we look at this return element as one of those three elements in which the success of attracting these funds is clear progress. And, of course, look again at this media-represented story about the loss of funds that should be delivered to us, that these funds are therefore lost due to the lack of credit. It should be made clear that these funds are not lost, no euro will be lost, the system is as far as we can see and as much as we are informed is ready, it is now about a clean check of that system and I think it is only a matter of weeks when these 150 million euros will be made available. And when you talk about this media story about these funds where now the ministry is true and very present in the media, the ministry was forced to kill because the opposition made them stand out and I'd say even the demagogue stories about the disaster, about the total loss of funds as if there was someone, I hope I'm fooled by that impression from the opposition to lose those funds so that they could liquidate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70429	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70430	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Pandek, this is another attempt at deception. I'm not saying you do it consciously. You read what was written to you, however, what is the fact that credits are gone, there is no advance. I don't think it's enough to say, we'll get those funds, they're not lost, etc. We need those funds today, but yesterday, because it's not the same if we're going to get them today, in a week or if we're going to get them in six months. The way you said it would be in a few weeks, so you keep talking. Operational programs are announced to be in January, announced to be Zadar, then in July, so when will it be? What are we going to have in particular? Does the government have any concrete indicators at all exactly when something would happen and before that, before this government was the same government that did something and prepared the whole structure. You came in or I don't like to talk like that, but someone entered a prepared field that needed to be built, processed, and built. Unfortunately, I'll just say you see there's a big discrepancy and it just doesn't go the way it's supposed to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70431	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70432	Comrade Milas, that this document contains all this data and how much the process of starting until the moment the money is received, then probably most of these discussions and bickering would not exist. Why is he running away from that fact, why doesn't he want to show himself? Well, it's usually called an uncritical and unfounded accusation of someone else because if you put it inside then you wouldn't be able to tell the story anymore that someone left you something or someone didn't leave you something. Another thing, in all EU members, you have one percent of projects where money is not used adequately. But there's something else. Why are some people at the very head of the ministry being poisoned who are very well trained for certain knowledge and doing great jobs, transferred to other jobs they have no idea about, and people who have no idea are brought to these jobs. And there's a vacuum of a few months that just can't be compensated, and that's a fact and it can't be escaped and what's crucial at this point is who's the biggest investor? Local self-government units, not all local self-government units can have the capacity themselves, they just need to build a system for education and leaders and people who will operate the job and if we don't do so, the government has cut off one co-ordination that was led by the finance minister and the regional development minister. One was in charge of building administrative capacity and the other was in charge of coordinating with local self-government units just to prepare these strong projects, and if the government does not assume such a role we will not have a percentage of investment. And we can charge as many units of local self-government as we want. The government should simply be someone who conducts the pace and directs where to go. Without that, we won't have results. Without that, what's happening to us is happening to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70433	Thank you. Replication response, Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70434	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Shuker, I agree with you. In my presentation, I was talking about not being clear to me, and I am sure there are people in the public administration who could deal with the issue of withdrawing funds and about European funds at all, but I do not understand why this is not happening. And you're right. No one starts the story over. So in order for something to be paid, something to be paid had to be envisaged by some previous programmes, I say some procedure, a contract selection, something simply had to be done, some phases had to be realized. And when, honestly, it would approach reporting and talking about European funds, then they would see that it is one story from which one government will inherit the other and to which it must be continuity, and it does not tell who did what compared to the one before or who will come, simply so the story will not get its good end, or the result that should come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70435	Ivan Clara's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70436	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Miles, you're on behalf of the HDZ Club, so simply the figures in this report deny you and I'll just read some. In fact, the rate of contracted HIPA funds at the end of 2011 was 37.8%, at half of 2012 was 50.2%, and at the end of 2012, 59.11%, while in June this year it was 62.94%. I think we need to stick to the report, not the numbers by heart. Otherwise, if HDZ had spent as much energy as Mrs Maletic is now spending visiting Croatia, I think it would have succeeded in pulling over 100%, over 100%.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70437	The answer to the replica Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70438	Lately. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, buddy, this is a process that lasts for years and you can't look at it in just one segment through one report, and who's talking casually, or who's talking through numbers right now is talking about reports. So you're right, 62%, almost 63 percent compared to, if we're going to talk about 59 and something, so less than 4% increase by half a year. So tell me exactly about science called mathematics, how is it possible in two years to increase it by 187%, if half a year it was less than 4%? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70439	And Ante Kulusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70440	My colleague Milas, I agree with your debate that we could certainly withdraw huge funds, that... what my colleague Shuker said wasn't all those who knew how to take money from European funds chased into the street and brought some others, but that's the problem with this government, and I'm just going to say one thing. Croatia is unfortunately 3rd in the EU after the unemployment of young people behind Spain and Greece. There is one fund where Croatia has won in these two years, it should get normal in how much it applies anything, 60m euros. Until last week nothing was applied from that fund and what you said we should do today, I don't believe that these funds will be lost over the next two years, but we need to hire these young people today. And he said well to my colleague Clarina, my Ivan, that Mrs. Maletic had stayed at the workplace, then certainly not to be withdrawn, but certainly would have been withdrawn, 100%. But I'm going to repeat from the beginning everything that was right, and you've driven it, and unfortunately this government is not guilty of anything, for all the money we didn't get seems to be the most guilty software, not the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70441	The answer to the replica Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70442	... Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Intruder Zgrebec: Turn yourself in, please.]] My colleague Kulušić, well, here are all the great facts and situations that this is all about. I don't want to go any more in a way to encourage low passion, I'm just going to say, so this is exactly the process that has its continuity and that everyone has to go into it with what's best they have, or what's already inside, it can't be touched because there aren't these and they, your and ours. There is Croatia, there is a Croatian people, our economy which is in crisis and should do everything to make it slow or if God can get out of it faster, and we can only do it with continuous work. I say, no matter who leads Croatia like this tomorrow, so what's done then, why not, talk about the bad sides of each other, will not lead us anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70443	On behalf of the HNS Representatives Club, colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70444	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Deputy, Assistant Minister of Regional Development and European Funds, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS Club, we will support this report. And the report is well structured, what we've heard in the debates so far that it's quite complicated, that a lot of numbers, that it's hard to analyze, shows well, and the ignorance of matter, and then all the criticism when they go that way, clearly indicate when they don't understand something, is the easiest thing to criticise, respected colleagues. What I can also say about success or failure, this government, as soon as it came and sat down in the Bane Courts, had to return 40m euros in the IPA programme due to unused programmes it had passed over the previous period. It didn't happen to us, and I believe it won't happen. When we talk about an analysis that is withdrawn, which is agreed, is that 4%, is 125%, when a little bit goes deeper, more systematically into the analysis of this report then we will clearly see that the dynamics and deals and payments, not only these 6 months of reporting, stronger, more dynamic than they were before, and these figures clearly speak. I also agree that in 2018 we will be able to draw the line and know exactly how much is withdrawn when and from which government. It is also not doubtful, and this clearly states that the data on the first component of the national IPA programme and on the location for 2007, 2009, for which the contract is not completed, indicate the achievement of high rates of contracting that are regularly above 90% of the allocations. So we can already talk and conclude on certain pre-accession or pre-accession IPA programmes where we are, which is part of the credit both to the past government and to this government. And I suppose that the Croatian public and Croatian citizens and those who pay all of us and this government to withdraw funds from EU funds that we now prepare through structural instruments, to tell them that we have taken advantage of what is called the grant that we use by all components at a high level, comparing with other EU countries, which through pre-accession funds, through these structural instruments that expect us to be equal and that we tell them that we are over 90% of the allocated funds for this IPA component. Also when we get into a situation of paying off these contracted funds, so that there are no errors and irregularities that we have to return funds, and that it is then an indicator of the success of the ministry and government itself, but of Croatian administrations, including, of course, local self-government. Here it is clearly read in which phase of the II component of the IPA programme, ranging from 87 to slightly less than 100% of the contract. So when we talk about success, then we have an exact possibility of withdrawing and how much of it we have agreed, and then we realized after all the projects have been solved. Component III of the IPA programme notes an increase in the 50m-euro contract and less than a quarter of the total contracted funds. But that's another period that we can negotiate, it's still ongoing and we see that these pre-accession contracts have been intensified both last and this year. So try to say that this government is doing worse than it was before so that it's getting out of certain percentages and the document isn't true. It's clear that she's dynamicized, and I repeat again, no one's saying that you didn't negotiate and prepare. The question, of course, is who dynamicized, who made it better, and it'll all be seen from the data. But what is crucial for all of us here, is whether we have achieved high usability in relation to other European countries and whether we have succeeded in realising this segment. Surely it is important how we prepare and it is not unequivocal and it is clear that the report also indicates what we were doing in the preparation of the projects or in preparation for structural instruments by entering the EU because it is done in parallel on two colossals quite clearly. Contracts are still being made for pre-accession projects and preparations are being made for the operational programme, which is the most important project. At the time when conditions are created including software so that we can withdraw funds from structural funds, cohesion, rural, agriculture, fishing is important that we have completed projects that we can go immediately to the competition which from the European Commission is making from the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds and that as soon as we can withdraw funds, whether these funds are not lost because they are not withdrawing at this time and they technically could not withdraw. That is why there are opportunities, as there have been in pre-accession programmes, for you to have the possibility to negotiate for three years for 2014. Itd. that we realize these things and improve and economic development, and especially uniform development in the Republic of Croatia. So these are the key messages for us from the HNS in this report using pre-accession aid programmes. So we have a better transition time in realisation and bargaining than the previous government according to these papers, we have a good preparation with difficulties, but a good preparation that we can do everything we planned in structural instruments and that's what we want to tell Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70445	Thank you. Tink Milas, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70446	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Gjurkovic is just the opposite. So the government's criticism didn't go in the sense of competing who's better, who's bigger, who made more than exactly the opposite. She was just going in terms of ending that story. So the results of one government in particular are, unfortunately, closely linked or fortunately, with the effect of what it did before. The one who comes will also be linked to the effect or work of this government. And about the fact that dynamics are faster or more dynamic or what they're just denying, I've read some sentences where they say, I'm going to read again, so "in a series of parallel data, status, etc. In order to increase the comparison data show an apparent decrease in dynamics." What's that supposed to mean? It means that it is very difficult to prove at all what kind of data they were, or very difficult to compare them. And I don't think they should be shown this way, if someone's achieved a better score by 180, 200% or 300 because I say his score depends on the work of someone who's been before. Likewise, someone who comes after his work and results will depend on what is happening today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70447	Replication response, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70448	Dear colleague, we may speak alike but in different ways. This is how it usually happens when the position and opposition speak in the Croatian Parliament. And if, for example, only for component 3 of the IPA programme since 31 December 2012, a total of EUR 168.24 million has been agreed, and at the end of this reporting period, 6 months later on 30 June 2013. 217m euros, which is 40.72m euros higher in 6 months or 23% of total contracted funds. I can't say that's not an increase in dynamics, the figures are exact, for example.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70449	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70450	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, we are talking here today about the report for the first 6 months of 2013, so we have not yet entered the European Union and we need to explain this to Croatian citizens. And we from the opposition ranks warn of the other six months and what is happening at the moment, and here we warn of the problems that arise and say that in this segment someone deceives us. And as for these first six months, in order for something to be signed to sometimes be reported, it was sometimes necessary to make a certain preparation in order to make the contract itself. If you've really done all this in those two years, then the former government has nothing to do with it, and I'm saying that's not the case. Many things were allocated in time, projects were prepared and could be negotiated more. As for this part where you said 40 million had to be returned,...the rules were different than later when you took over, when it was allowed to be from the extra money saved on certain projects could be negotiated new projects. At one point, it wasn't allowed, and you know it. But we are more plagued by this second segment where we are deceived that this software leprosy is not a damage to Croatia, and we know that the Ministry of Finance in February took a short term to 3 months for 200 million euros, and at the same time because of this software we missed we had a long promise and we could get 150 million euros or billions of kuna. That's why we're warning that it's time for this ministry to start, not that it looks like it's working on batteries.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70451	Replication response, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70452	Dear colleague, perhaps the Croatian public thinks that by withdrawing funds from European funds, we would fill the budget and cover the deficit in this debate. So these are the means for certain projects to be reported, and there is no way to close a deficit that can be used to pay certain pensions or, etc., etc. Therefore, 40m euros is quite clear, you said we had to return it because it was not withdrawn and there is no further debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70453	Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70454	Thank you very much, Vice President. Representatives of the government. Well, fellow Gjurkovic, you've spoken to the government many times, this government. It is known that this report is for the first 6 months of 2013, and it is known which government it is. However, all of us here regardless of party membership believe that, not only should it be but I believe that the primary goal is to withdraw as much funds as possible, as much grants as possible. And that is why it would be better if we had more thoroughd this debate today and dedicated it to that last sentence in this report, and this says to timely diagnose the shortcomings that adversely affect the use of the resources available. All of us from local self-government to government are making a lot of efforts, making a lot of money to get those grants. In the end, it is called Government, Minister and Head of Local Self-Government Units, e.g. In the case of a project to build the Vodice sewer system... the consultants have scheduled it. No one mentioned consultants at all today. For example. Our project was to be run and financed from the IPA pre-accession fund, but our consultants were surprised on July 1st 2013, so we are still preparing to go from this European fund, meaning no pre-accession fund, and we have lost time. It would have been much better if we'd said a little more words on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70455	Replication response, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70456	Dear colleagues, we can agree with you that there are problems with both consultants as there are problems in both the system and the system within the local self-government, because we are aware that a part of the consultants are obviously telling beautiful stories, and they are doing little work for what is paid or contracted, and there are all of us who are at the Ministry of Regional Development which, as far as I know on the websites, are precisely those consultants that they recommend to be used to prepare a European Union programme that is, for example, licensed and which should not be those who make the failures not to use funds, or to make quality designs. We are also aware of the fact that in local self-government we also have the mayor and mayor and mayors of course in the regional region who have very well recognised the possibility of withdrawing funds because they are grants, to advance and prove their success and improved work in the environment in which they live and lead and we have our colleague Skvarić who in Lepoglava more than 14 projects solved the European Union because he realized at that time the HDZ authorities couldn't rely because there was money shared by party approach, so he turned nicely to European projects and improved not only the budget but also life. There are mayors and mayors who absolutely don't want to, don't think about it, and let's not expect the government to give authority to someone to prepare, to organize something that's for the benefit of the citizens. It is a democracy unfortunately in that segment where the mayors and mayors are not responsible enough for their voters, but they chose them and responded to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70457	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70458	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, we have warned many times that you have been preparing for power for eight years and that you should simply know what it is. The HDZ government brought you to the door and opened the door of the European Union for you, and then you just didn't get along, you didn't know, and you just didn't even care. Well, you see, in short. The one who knows, knows. The one who doesn't know he's accusing someone else forever and someone else is to blame. And I will now warn you of another problem that will surely be in some report and it is about rural development. You see, a colleague, should have changed the Support Act in November 2013 and then these measures could be applied. This would also provide a legal basis for the possibility of funding from the Rural Development Fund, 85% to the European Union and 15% to the Republic of Croatia's budget. And what's happening now is because of that same ignorance, carelessness, or I don't know what. Only now is it possible to make a hasty amendment to this Support Act, and all payments for rural development measures will be made by the Republic of Croatia out of the state budget. My question will be to you once again when you defend yourself that it is HDZ's authority, and what Mr. Linic will say. How's it going? So instead of $42 million, he's 15% of his colleagues. The Republic of Croatia will now have to take out of the state budget 280 million kunas almost out of the budget at all this year. What do you want? Retake workers, farmers. What are you gonna do? Who are you going to charge now?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70459	Replication response, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70460	Well, what you've been taking, we can't make it. But in my debate, I think it was clear regardless of the subsequent replicas that I said the HDZ government did its part of the IPA component work for the most pre-accession funds, that we dynamicized this job and now we're caught up in whether we dynamiced or slowed it down. But I'm telling you one key thing again. What we have resulted in 2007, 2008, 2009. The IPA component is that it's agreed because in the end, because it ended up being agreed with a 90 percent share of your credit, part of it or we can say most of our credit. And this is important for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to know that the governments have agreed 90% on something that has ended, which is measurable, and we will see this as a colleague said somewhere in 2008 sometimes even before the eighteenth, sometimes depending on the IPA programs. And that's basically the key message that mine was on behalf of the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70461	Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70462	Thank you. Like my colleague twilight said, who knows, who doesn't know, doesn't know. Here's the data. Let me be brief. My colleague Gjurkovic has a lot to talk about here. HDZ 2008/2011 247m euros, paid off by their government, 127m euros. The coalition government, headed by the SDP cumulatively contracted 565m euros in 2014, paid 374m euros. The difference, therefore, is that the coalition is not counting cumulatively, what the coalition has agreed and paid in relation to four years of the HDZ government's efforts, which has managed to contract 247m euros in four years. The coalition government contracted 318m euros in 2 years. Unlike the HDZ government paid 127m euros to the SDP-led coalition government in four years, it paid 247m euros. What would anyone know, know, who doesn't know, doesn't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70463	Replication response, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70464	Dear colleague, you've pulled out of this report of course those key numbers when we're discussing the realization of the former and current government. And I'm up to some debates that said there's a lot of numbers here, tables, that it's vague, difficult to compare. However, what you were talking about is clear and highlighted and extracted and shows that the dynamics I spoke about in these governments and in the negotiation and withdrawal of funds are much greater than they were before. But it is our pleasure that these funds have also sat down to those accounts that they needed to be implemented, but it also indicates that we will also be successful in structural instruments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70465	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70466	Honored Madam President, colleague Gjurkovic. You said here that our discussions mostly show misunderstandings, I mean we don't understand matter. I don't know if I understand everything, but I understand what you're talking about here very well. This is where she remembered the demagogy. Now Marin Jurevic says who knows, knows, who doesn't know, doesn't know. This government doesn't know. I don't know who knows, but I'm sure this government doesn't know how to run the country right. So, one four-year term if we compare the former government to the ninth and tenth years, that is, the tenth and eleventh, and now the eleventh and the twelfth. Every mayor, every government in the four-year term projected for the first two years, and then for the next two years, the last two years of the mandate has been realised. Gjurkovic, she had previously welcomed the government, the rules of the projects, pulled something back, well pulled out and left the projects for you. All you had to do was upgrade those projects and bring new ones. You should have withdrawn 100% That you're slightly better 4% than the previous government that's a sign that you're not good because you should have pulled 100% but let's not talk about it, let's talk about now whether we're going to withdraw a billion kuna in a year. You refer to the Greek, it's a writer of futuristic films. Well, Jules Verne guessed she'd be on the moon in advance for 100, 200 years. And he can't guess what's gonna happen in a year or two. He says that GDP's going to fall is going to be this and that, that. Who do we trust? So whoever believes in him is invited to him. We need to withdraw a billion euros if we don't pull it back then we'll all be at risk, and I don't believe we'll pull it back. Now, that's unfortunately true, but it's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70467	A serious issue should still be discussed seriously. Reply to the replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70468	Dear fellow, I don't even call upon the Vice President of the Government of Mr. Greek, I didn't even understand what you said to me that I was calling on because I didn't mention Mr. Greek at all in the conversation, so I have to admit in this debate I don't know what I would give you a smart answer because most of the time, let's be honest, you guys are taking a rain check and you say the government's two years of preparation, and then it's realising so we left it to you. Since we are talking here about concrete and amounts and projects and here we see clearly which counties have withdrawn or cities more and exactly what projects are written. It would be good if you could tell me exactly which projects you've made clear to us, with all that paperwork you left without us realizing it. This government is all of those projects that eventually existed and were in the initial stages of continuing and completing because this government doesn't watch projects because HDZ or I don't know whose, it's just the problem that we didn't have these projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70469	And Jozo Radosh replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70470	Col. Gjurkovic, the overall process of realising pre-accession funds lasts for 6, 7 and 8 years, and it is really difficult to monitor what would be the success of each administration. It's theoretically possible. This can be done, the methodology but politically it is very, very complicated because statements, extracting from the context, do not actually prevent such an exact operation of the results of various administrations. But the fact remains that what you said about the realisation of the IPA I, II and III programme for 2007 is over 90% of what you said about the success of both this government and the better passing time, and, of course, no one disputes that it is part of these procedures for the start and during the former government, and in that sense, the former government has some solid merits, but if it is not possible to compare as colleagues claim it is not possible to compare the success of one or another government, and that after 4.5 years of realising a program how it is possible to place more difficult how the use of Eu membership funds is a failure, as the government is harassed by the public, bombing messages are being sent. So if it is not possible to evaluate in the fifth year of implementation as possible in the first year of implementation that the government is failing what HDZ has been doing for the last half year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70471	Reply to the replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70472	So you have just defined the way the opposition is trying to disqualify the work of this government and those measurable indicators that still write here, and it is not impossible to erase what I said in the dynamicization of the realisation of pre-accession funds projects and what is most important and prepare projects for the withdrawal of funds from EU structural and cohesion funds. The very fact that they did not think of it, let alone realising on a good path where we are pulling and financing and co-financing the construction of the Peljega Bridge, which this government has prepared with the EU, is something that shows that the thinking and approach of this government is more dynamic, systematic and within the framework of thinking about how the EU works. And this means using all the maximum sources and preparing quality and elaborate projects to be funded and implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70473	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, colleague Krešimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70474	Thank you, well-respected vice presidents, respected representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, respected Mr. Pugliz, colleagues and colleagues. We are presented with a report on the use of EU pre-accession programmes for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2013. It means until before joining the EU. And listening to so far debates where a lot has been said then we can say whether Croatia has been successful or unsuccessful but the percentages say so best. Looking at the period to 1.7. Croatia had fewer opportunities to withdraw funds than it was after 1.7 because the structural funds are much larger projects, much more significant and much greater opportunities. Therefore, the percentage is important, how much the funds have been withdrawn in some period but surely we will all be interested in the volume of funds withdrawn or in the EU membership payments and the EU funds withdrawn. Namely I come from Osijek-Baranja County, which is certainly the most successful county in the Republic of Croatia by means of withdrawn funds, so far realised 300-thousand projects, i.e. 226 implemented, 74 implemented, raised 137 million 628 thousand 452 euros and 74 centres. Also, one of the first projects Mr. Grcic often boasts, the "001" project is a project of collectors and water purifiers in Osijek weighing 72 million and 506,000 euros that we have worked on for 3 years. But looking at all these tables we have ahead of us, then we can say what happened in the past period in which Croatia had the opportunity to withdraw funds from pre-accession programmes. So when we look at the period that Mr. Pugliz was just talking about, it's 1 January 2013 to 30 June, of 804 million euros total of funds allocated, the funds contracted, so for those 6 months it's 80.47 million or 11.19%. This is less important, the table on the next side is much more important, and it concerns the total allocations of IPA from the start of implementation until the end of the reporting period of IPA funds, and we are talking about millions of euros, meaning 804 million euros in total agreed funds are 506 million euros, thus 62%, and totalling 58.32 total. It's paid. It is the number that is very important to talk about today, who has scheduled it in the past time, so we have not withdrawn all 100%, but much more important for Croatia is what we are doing today, what we have not done until today, and why will we not withdraw the funds in the next period again in the amount of 100%? There is a lot to talk about today, we may be able to talk about the Regional Development Act which is important for the Republic of Croatia and its decentralisation, but we all know that Europe is looking at projects at regional level, looking at and connecting at regional level, and I am glad that we worked in Osijek-Baranja County 87 projects with Hungary, 28 with Serbia, especially in cross-border cooperation, and there are important projects right through the cities of friends, but we have problems to talk about today. It is that Croatia does not have a clear strategy, and it certainly is important for the period 2014-2020 because Croatia expects 8 billion and 25 million euros from 2014 to 2020. These are structural funds that we haven't started to withdraw yet, today they're talking about accreditation, someone's talking about software today, but I'm assessing that the problem is hardware. We in Osijek-Baranja County have drawn the most funding, but the question is in Croatia not only software, but also people we have on the ground, are they educated enough, are they ready enough to prepare a project idea because often, here I have the opportunity to work in a local administration unit, send people to education, and I have just sent them to education when they have a project idea to perfect education, to have a completed project, and then wait for a competition, we go to project realization. But what is presently a problem is the fiscal capacity of local administration units that are exhausted. So we also talked about projects in agriculture because our village, our agriculture, is exhausted, credit-deposited and has no power to participate, to participate in the project. This is what will be our problem in EU structural funds, finance participation. I am expressing my concern on behalf of all Ossetians because in the projection of the 2014 budget there were 91 million and 100 thousand kunas for the water supply and disposal project in the city of Osijek, I expect to find funds through rebalancing for this important project because the city of Osijek as a unit of local administration will not have the power to finance this project that is very important and weighs 72 million euros. Looking at and implementing projects and programmes, we are sure to meet obstacles and in the conduct of competitions, the length of competitions, the appeal deadline, and that is what cannot be allowed, that the EU projects are waiting, that they are standing. Accreditation wasn't made, but it's also important an advance in the project. I am saying that units of local or regional administration will not have the power to finance the advance and there will be an EBRD offered and will tell Croatia the Resort Ministry, go, deal with it with the EBRD that will give more expensive funds than certain commercial and business banks in the Republic of Croatia. It is not important that only pre-financing is resolved through loans, it was much more important to submit accreditation and to withdraw funds directly from the EU during this period. What's my feeling on the ground, often talking to local and regional administration units, is that they don't have information on the ground. You have done education, I congratulate you and even in local administration units where you may have five people, but it is important that the promotion of individual projects and presentations to people on the ground when we speak from farmers to businessmen to all those who have the opportunity to implement individual projects together with local administration units. Someone said these IPA projects, programs and this period were our training. I'm afraid that this period since 01.07. individuals experience as training, but I want to tell you the game has begun, I'd say one halftime is already over, the first six months in 2013 and the second half has begun in this 2014 but the reactions are weak, the reactions are slow. And the first thing that needs to be defined is the strategy. If we do not have this strategy, and it is known that we often talk about a strategy in the economy, agriculture, other segments of life, it is therefore necessary to define a clear strategy and clear rules on what we want to take from the EU and structural funds in the next period, and we want to. Not only does Europe give us as it says in this report on nuclear safety, so nuclear security is important, it is also important to make sewers, it is important to resolve landfills particularly regional, but we do not have a strategy there either. Today there is no Minister Dragonovich, but there is no strategy here either. Regional dumps are also important. But what's much more important is whether our man who wants to produce and create new jobs, whether he can get the funds, how and how he can be helped. Investment in infrastructure, there has been a lot of talk about our roads, said counterpart Marasovic, they are even converted in one part, but we expected HZ to withdraw funds during this period, but according to my information, the projects have not yet been completed, and the EU is sure from Brussels that it wants the most funds directed precisely for that purpose. That is precisely why Croatia is going harder to prepare projects because if we do not prepare them during this period then we will certainly pay more membership fees than withdraw funds. I am glad that as Osijek-Baranja County a few years ago, we opened the story of Europe's mine maps because Europe had no problem with mines. And I remember all those lobbyists that helped make it really happen, and I thank them. We managed to mine the border belt with Hungary through these projects. But let us try to pass this successful project into other parts that Croatia has the possibility and demining of special spaces that have not been treated in the past years for the purpose of organic production to demining these areas and to provide us with the possibility of precisely demining these areas. Through the cross-border co-operation of the local and regional administration units, they have done a lot with their partners, and they certainly need to be congratulated. But it is also evident that a small number of units of local and regional administrations in the Republic of Croatia that have withdrawn funds. There are two reasons, one thing is they don't have people, the other is they don't have money. Therefore, a discussion on the unification of local administrations, regional administrations, a joint EU approach with common problems must be an imperative in the next period for all 556 units of local and regional administrations. Looking at this report, we at the HDSSB club can say that it is correctly written and that it is properly prepared, so we congratulate the report, but the content is important but also what is the problem today is that we have no strategy, we have no accreditation and we will fight hard to reach the amount of euros we pay in the EU in relation to what we will withdraw. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70475	Now we'll move on to replicas. Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70476	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Bubalo, you've said well, you've been mayor, you've had experience in implementation, project bargaining, project realization, and you've rightly warned about everything that's yet to come. Because we're also trying to warn the fact that what we're being told is a kind of deception, and that's what the figures show. When the ministry says that 300 million kuna is available for project design, we all know what the value of the project is throughout the investment up to 5%, so we put it in some kind of relationship. 300 million can generate some 6 billion kuna projects even though we can hardly find those 300 in the state budget. I remember last year the ministry had 30 million for project documentation in rebalancing, I mean more than 10 million, so we didn't spend that 30. And we have at least a billion euros each year. In order to make this happen to me, it is clear to all how many projects we should have in preparation, how many countries should raise the amount to prepare the project documentation, and that should mean at least 700, 800 million kunas to help everyone out in 7 years what is available to us is 50 billion kuna. In order to take 50 billion kunas, we must have at least twice as many projects that can enlarge this. who can finally realize it. And that's why this debate of ours is going this way. Turning this into some kind of competition is the problem of those who do not understand the problem of EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70477	The answer to the replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70478	Well, it's a good competition, but to compete with local and regional administration units who will withdraw more funds. However, fiscal capacity is such that it will not succeed particularly in the coming time, and this is certain that the resolution ministry and the Croatian government should give more significant funds. When we look at the period 2014-2020, I said that Croatia will have 8 billion and 25m euros in disposition and I am sure that we will not help. But it's important to prepare projects. Without the preparation of the projects, there will be no implementation of the projects. And you see for yourself even when it comes to agreeing that there was a situation where the funds had to be returned because in an adequate way projects were not agreed, no tenders under those EU regulations, the European Commission which are required of Croatia, and that will certainly be a problem for us in the coming time. But what feels like EU policy on the ground is a uniform regional development, here they feel undeveloped that they will not participate in projects or prepare projects. Therefore, there needs to be a fund that will help particularly underdeveloped regions, units of local regional administration to give them the opportunity at all to build a project, not to say then to nominate and give God a realisation and to try to catch up with the more developed regions, and that is what we feel best in Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70479	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70480	Well, buddy, you said it was a much more important future period. If we know it has been available since 2014, and we all know that 2014 started until 2020. 8.5 billion euros. We know that, and so did you, and Mr. Boris touched it, that the preparation of the projects requires about 5% of the value of these projects, so about 800,000 euros. We know how much was in last year's budget, some hundred million kunas, even they weren't spent in total. And now to your conclusion that it is a much more important future period, which we want to expect in this future period. And what you're talking about is local self-government units, how many units of local self-government, and you've been the head of the local self-government unit, in this situation, in the crisis situation, the budget crashes, they can out of their budgets with increasing liabilities because their incomes are increasingly centralised, providing funds for project preparation and candidateing. In my view, therefore, the main investments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia were supposed to be in 2012 and in 2013 providing funding for project preparation, and this should have been the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. I doubt there will be an announcement by the Greek minister that we will not be left with a single cent of unsecured funds when we think about project preparation in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70481	Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70482	Thank you very much. So, colleagues, if you don't have a strategy, then you certainly don't know what you're going to invest in, but the budget is also a clear expression of politics. When the 2014 budget was adopted, then we saw a strong growth in funds for the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 22%, but I would rather have allocated more significant funds for the position of detachment to help local and regional administration units, especially with the weaker coefficient or below 75% of the European Union's development. This would be a shift, it would be a clear policy, and units of local and regional administrations fall, budgets are not inflated, as is the case for the 2014 budget of the Republic of Croatia. Well, here we will probably have these days of rebalancing, I hope that this rebalancing will cut what the Republic of Croatia does not need, but this participation is investment in the future and this is what the Republic of Croatia needs. That's where the extra funding would have to be found.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70483	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70484	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Bubalo, you have, in fact, created a different impression in your debate than the general impression in the Republic of Croatia on the use of funds from European funds, in the case of Osijek-Baranja County. You said that Osijek-Baranja County is somewhere over 130m euros, it seems to me that you have said, drawn money from European funds, while the general impression in Croatia is that Croatia is actually very low, at a very low level of exploitation of funds from European funds. It is obvious that units of local, regional and regional self-government have done a good part of the work in that section and have actually managed to extract considerable resources themselves. But I believe that you in that part and as the mayor of Osijek had probably before had significant support from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resort Ministry when you managed to realize and realize these projects because it would probably be very difficult now in this situation where we are. I think that the report that was given is certainly a correct report, it's numerical and there's not much to discuss, but that we lack one rule of the game, that we really lack what you're saying is a real strategy that we know exactly what to do, that's true, and that there's not enough coordination between that local level and the state level, and that then there's still a problem of what you mentioned, which is the financial capacities and potentials of local self-government that should actually get out of these funds well. It's all true, but I'm saying, somehow I'm stuck hanging in the air, and that's why I signed up for the replica, if you've secured so many projects, so much money you've probably had to support the Resort Ministry in that time and the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70485	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70486	Thank you very much. My colleague Hrg, and you know about the units of the local regional administration that you must be persistent and persistent in order to realize some of the projects. Sometimes there's political will, sometimes there's no, but there's always good people you can do a project with. So here I certainly want to commend the readiness of a system called Croatian Waters in relation to the European Union, not with regard to what is happening today on the ground and these floods, but with respect to the European Union because they have been sufficiently prepared, trained enough to provide information, but also with all technical assistance to come to the funds and this project, which I have talked about 72 million euros, a project of collectors, purifiers, etc., that certainly played a significant role. But I'm saying, it's an individual thing because as you can see certain systems like HZ that you couldn't do anything with, and today they don't have realisation projects, and then there's more problems in the system and even in some people who aren't ready. However, Croatia must have a strategy, it must have coordination, and units of local regional administrations are exhausted and therefore will not have enough capacity and participation for the next period. But I'll return to your beginning, and that's what you said that 130m euros were attracted to Osijek-Baranja County. So far, 137 million is 628 thousand 452 euros and 74 cents. This is what sat the funds for individual projects in 226 projects, and only now come these real projects where there will be more significant funds than I mentioned in 72m euros. Therefore, the left and right sides should not be fired here, but only the percentage of the use in each period is important. But now we have much more opportunities, and for these opportunities Croatia and the units of local (regional) administrations are not ready.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70487	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70488	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bubalo, I agree with your conclusion that there is no strategy, or clear rules, and usually requires such an atmosphere in terms of everything regarding the structural funds and that resolution at all. So, I think it's a more casual approach where we can even hear a government representative, a statement from a guy that we're developing a private consulting sector to help all potential EU fund users. Well, I don't think the government needs to develop anything, but it has to make it possible for something to develop. And this statement is even indicative of the private consulting sector being talked about. And isn't it even contradictory to a constant public administration story that has to serve among other things and to help potential users? And not to say what happens when we talk about the story over and over again about how we need additional funds for public service employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70489	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70490	He's a colleague of Milas, we don't have a strategy. But it's much more important that we often talk about developing that part of the consultants, private consultants. Units of local (regional) administrations, but also individual agencies are quite qualified and need as many people as possible to push through these systems right now. But what's much more important is to watch our capable young people sitting at the Employment Services and who even know how to do projects, include them so that they can use wages right through these projects and programmes. This is what we did in the past period and in Osijek-Baranja County and the city of Osijek. It should be imperative, not that our best brains go to the EU and suddenly get jobs there and that they can't work on projects and programmes. And that's exactly why he's trying to push some private consultants and some private consulting companies and I don't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70491	The Republic will now be presented by the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70492	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bubalo, about how seriously anyone thinks about what they're going to do tomorrow, let's let these crackdowns be best seen yesterday when you look at the budget. And you, when you look at the state budget then you'll see that through those positions of material costs, everything is shelled out. Also, if you want to say that you use funds for even regional development, then certain guidelines have to be addressed to local self-government units as well as what they need to do. And in no way is this debate going through any stories about whether it's income or not, budget revenue. Everything we make out of EU funds will not have to be provided in our own budgets or in the budgets of extra budget users, but the effect of this through the revenue side of the budget will be very strong and large both through income tax and income tax and through VAT tax. So it's a multiple economic benefit, and you can't see a word of it here. And I'm gonna finish this replica with that sports dictionary that you started. So, by 1.7, a team was preparing to enter the game and play that game as best as possible. But what happened? When the game started most of these prepared players were eliminated, there were several left and unfortunately our team played a game that many don't know at all what sport, what game it is, what kind of sport. Well, that's the best example of the Peljega Bridge and a series of other projects. So, it's not good to say what's been done so far, so now we're gonna do something great. We're in the situation we're in, and we're about to have a rebalance of the state budget, so we don't break the left and right sides of the assembly. Everyone will have a chance to see how serious the government is thinking and thinking about EU funds. Because if he's lying to a goat, he doesn't lie to a horn, i.e. The budget that will be presented to us here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70493	The replica matches Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70494	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, I'll start at your end. I was talking about the game, but in this half-time from 1.7 to today. But that sport you were talking about needs a strategy. Croatia has no strategy, but what is even more important is operational programmes. You know that at the level of the region you have adopted operational programmes, but today there is no strategy, no operational programmes. They're important to make it clear what they want next time. But structural funds are our chance and our challenge, and that is why regional policy and attempt to bring regional development into line and clear guidelines are important. But you also talked about the deficit. The deficit is a Croatian problem. However, this problem will not solve the funds, the problem Croatia must solve on its own and on an urgent basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70495	A new replica and a respected Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70496	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Absolutely what you said was a hit in the srid and it confirmed here all the former mayors, the mayors, the people who worked in the local administration and about the financing of projects, which is certainly one of the biggest problems in the preparation of projects. Because units of local self-government, we saw a dozen days ago here in the Parliament when it was at the debate of the capacity of the local self-government financial unit to what they are and what they are and what they can do to the municipalities. I'm sure it's very little, and we've seen the cities as much as we can without telling the county. Split-Dalmatia County is the largest Croatian county with the largest population and with the largest budget. It has 190 million original assets. These are the financial capacities and opportunities of the county. And if we don't have the help of the state then surely none of these European projects and what you said in the end I think that's what you meant when you said that the local and regional administrations are not able or are not ready for it can only be for that reason because there are enough professional and smart people there. And as for the strategy, which is vitally important that without it we can't work because I can say from the example, select some mayor, mayor, mayor has some visions, put it into spatial plans, and then different opinions here I and Mr. Curlin we had a conflict, I thought that in our county we should make a science tech park, put it in all the spatial plans, that we should make a tunnel at Kozjak and put it in plans, he didn't think we should. In Rijeka, we have two scientific technology parks and in Split we don't need any. And that's the fight over the strategy, and if we're clearly defined, we spend the funds, we spend the money, and then he says we won't do it, we won't finance it, we won't get central government support. And that is why I support and it is important that we see in this rebalancing what the funds are overlooked for the European Funds and what we are going to do, what our future is for the funds at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70497	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70498	Mr. Sanader knows the problems, and often as mayors at the mayor's meetings, we talked about fiscal capacity and we talked about strengthening fiscal capacity because we were all witnesses and I was trying to say it through debate today. You have a unit of local administrations called municipalities with income per capita below 1000 kuna. It doesn't have to be a criterion, but it's one of the criteria that doesn't certainly have fiscal powers and not enough people to be able to act and prepare projects. And that's why it's important to round up units of local administration and work together on projects, and that's what often mayors and counties help local administration units and through regional development agencies to jointly prepare a project or programme. It's the strategy I was talking about. But I also want to say. Sometimes the strategies of the county and the resolution ministries differ. But I had the opportunity to work two halls of entrepreneurial incubator in Osijek of bios where we got the millions of euros for the first hall, a million euros for the second hall where many people work today and just generate entrepreneurial ideas. This is an incubator of entrepreneurial ideas and this should be an example to other units of local and regional administrations how to work and how to co-operate together on projects and programmes but it is very difficult and limited to local administration units, hence regionalisation of the Republic of Croatia and decentralisation with a clear strategy in order to contribute to a stronger withdrawal of funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70499	The new replica stands for Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70500	Thank you. Comrade Bubalo, I absolutely support everything you've said. So you need to call things a real name. We have entered the EU and this year we have allocated x money for membership and x money for funds and it is not a small amount of money. So it's to expect that this mass of money to come back through the funds and this year. In order to bring back the elemental things have to be done, you've all mentioned and we all mention and say the basic thing are strategies of course. Europe has adopted its strategic documents for the 14-20 period, and we have already done it well, but we are not in line with the EU strategy of our strategy, some ministries have done it well, some have not and some strategies have been returned to completion, such as the Ministry of Agriculture, the strategy has been restored to completion. So without it, we have nothing to hope for. The second thing, experience says that we need to secure pre-financing funds, you said what experience local self-government is, some can finance it, pre-finance it, most can't. The fields have shown that they have the greatest success in withdrawing funds and they have made the following model, 5% of the taxes of all levels of local, regional self-government has gone to the fund for pre-financing of European funds. So that's the thing to think about if we all want together and we want to, honestly, we want to profit from this period until 2020 and from these European funds because I don't see any other means of funding, quality funds for investment projects, but just these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70501	The replica matches Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70502	Thank you very much. I'm glad you support everything I've said because I'd be surprised if it was different but you've been in my custody for a while, I'm kidding. But Croatia is a lot of salary this year for membership and one part of the funds we have invested in funds and in the preparation of projects but this is not enough. It is important for us to agree on the period 2014-2020 for the sake of the strategy, but also to integrate our strategy into that European strategy. And we now come to the expense of this period past, the problem of our copyists, not negotiators, and that's what our producers feel in the field. I agree with you for pre-financing and funds, that's what I've been saying about the settlement fund and helping those who haven't been developed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70503	We're moving on with the replicas. Representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70504	Thank you. In your speech, you have compared this story about pre-accession funds and access funds with the game and have expressed concern that we do not have a good start in the game. However, it should be said that 450m euros are available for the first six months of Croatia's membership and the value of newly published tenders for structural funds has reached 540m euros. By the end of 2014, public procurement was planned for individual projects worth a total of 587 million euros. So, of course, you can always do better, and I'd say we're shooting down certain goals in this game. You also talked about the inability to attract funds from smaller units of local self-government due to lack of funds, and of course you presented that it was precisely the problem of the availability of funds, the main problem preventing them from attracting funds. But I'm afraid that this problem is a little deeper, and I'm afraid that this problem is in the multi-year hyperproduction of small municipalities that were immediately clear that they wouldn't have enough resources for basic work, but perhaps only for the salaries of the commissioners and secretaries, if that's the case. And of course, then the government will be responsible for them because there is no means to participate. That's the problem I hear and some cities in your area that aren't so successful in withdrawing funds and... private initiatives that are to be commended, attracts funds and pulls out the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70505	The answer to the replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70506	Thank you very much. I'm glad we've been given the opportunity to use pre-accession funds for another time. But I was talking about structural funds in the game, and I'm sure we'll pay more membership fees than we'll withdraw funds, so we should just help local and regional administration units to strengthen their fiscal capacity, but what's more important, I'm glad you're talking about the number of units of local administrations on this side, that's the sum of municipalities. Some municipalities with that income that I was talking about, below 1000 kuna, do not have the power to realize, not even prepare projects, not implement projects themselves, therefore, the message is clear. Let's start reforming and uniting individual local administrations and regional ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70507	And the last replica, Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70508	Thank you. Dear colleague Bubalo, it is difficult to disagree with you if you have healthy eyes, common sense in the fact that capacities are fiscal and human levels of local and regional authorities and too small to absorb these strong funds from EU funds, especially the structural funds that are coming to us. However, the question is this. How much did we actually do at local and regional level to change this situation? So have we done enough at the synergy of our human and fiscal capacities? Have we done enough to overcome these political and party divisions to unite both counties and municipalities and cities? Because the fact is that no matter how large a unit of local self-government is, it's still not small enough to deal with a project of 30, 50 million euros. And when it comes to capacity at national level, be assured, but I don't believe that you have such experience that both in the past and in this government, the most qualified people actually worked in this segment of European funds and that they had the same problem in the past and in this government, which is that they worked too hard, and for that job they were underpaid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70509	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70510	Thank you. Dear colleague Damir, I just want to say one more thing. We also have small units of local administrations and regions that have done great works or major projects, and such ones should be especially congratulated for pulling out those last kunas and preparing the project and implementing it. We have these wonderful examples, and such ones should be especially commended. But if Croatia needs a consensus, and I think we need to have a consensus on this and you on the left and you on the right, a consensus on the strategy of the Republic, and we can do that after we've done the SWOT analysis, after we see where our opportunities are, where our chances are and what are the joint projects and programmes we want to realise exactly on the benefit of the Republic. But what we must do, there must be greater use, and we must give everyone the same chance, especially to the undeveloped parts of the Republic and to the weakest, and there are wonderful examples in the weaker ones who have been able to take advantage of what they have had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70511	Thank you. The closing word belongs to Deputy Minister of Regional Development and European Union funds, Dr Jakshi Kuljiz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70512	Here I would like to thank everyone for the comments, for the discussion which, as always, was very open and sharp, is what we do in the ministry and my colleagues in other state bodies, of course, encourage us to work faster, more and better. What we've done so far, I think we've done a very good job, what we're doing right now, we're making assumptions that when really this significant money is at our disposal we have not only a sufficient number of projects but a sufficient number of quality projects, and this particular quality might be a segment where we're going to have the biggest challenge. What we are showing right now, what our project preparation programmes in 2012 show to date clearly that Croatia has one huge problem, and above all I am talking about in Croatia, I am talking about local level even though we can talk about state-level, there are similar problems, and this is a lack of quality project ideas. We have programmes that we have launched with the aim of supporting certain areas of Croatia, especially less developed to prepare projects. And what's happening to us? That this little money that's really symbolic, we're talking about ten million kunas a year, we're barely able to spend, barely because we don't have enough project ideas to spend on. Today we said let's take a step further, let's invest in designing concepts, ideas, thinking before we go into financing project documentation. And it's not easy. We have an agreement now with the UN Agency for Three Countys as a pilot project whose sole task is to come up with project ideas because indeed most, unfortunately, it is not a criticism, it is simply the state of things on the ground, local leaders, local leaders, is not able to produce enough quality ideas in that area as Europe is looking for. Europe is not looking for any ideas. That's the problem, that ladder Europe raises, and... the quality of every financial perspective is getting higher and higher. And we can't just go through with local sewers, kindergarten projects anymore, etc. So we need one more complex infrastructure to be sought, and for this more complex infrastructure we need knowledge. I mean... knowledge basically doesn't exist. And that's why we care about the private sector, which is why we care more about experts like we don't have in local self-government, and we don't often have them at the state level to help get involved. We need foreign experts to pass on experience because countries that have been participating in such programmes for 20 years have something to offer. That is why this week the EU funds that are being organised right now and today is the last day and is being organised on the principle of partnership with individual countries to share their experiences for individual areas. Without that connection, networking, openness, and ability at local level to connect, it's not easy to do. Find real partners in the Member States from which we will withdraw this experience should have a certain capacity and capacity. And then we come up with that key problem, it's a human factor. How capable are the staff at all levels, but I again appeal to local and regional because they will go to the most funds, 2/3 of the funds will end up on projects of local and regional self-government. And we have a huge structural problem here, there's simply a deficit with project designs. And these pilot projects that we've now launched that we're carrying out clearly show us that. So once again we appeal and especially to MPs who have chief and mayoral functions to promote in their midst the need to invest in the preparation of projects and the integration, the need to search for experts, who your partners are. We're looking for projects where local self-government has a partnership. With who? With a private sector, with a scientific sector, with a foreign partner. It's a new level of cooperation, a new level of project preparation. Of course we have those basic problems, like any member state, that is not the specificity of Croatia. The process of buying land is still really holding us back, and it is a horizontal problem that contains simply still more powerfully must be taken into account, that is what prevents us, these are some basic problems but we will deal with this, as we will significantly speed up the process of preparing the project documentation, we will solve and the issue of empowerment will not doubt it. But again, we are going back to the issue of project design, and now that we are talking about strategies, so Croatia has strategies, Croatia is working right now on roof strategic documents for the 2014-2020 Partnership Agreement, which is quite a phase of completion but it is necessary to complete the communication process and end the EU Commission services. We have already presented the basic parts of this partnership agreement to the public at our partner consultations in December 2013, soon a new round is being launched, and Parliament will be one of the special target groups of communication and dialogues on the content of the Partnership Agreement and the operational programmes that are now in the phase of the first draft. The plan is by the end of 6 months that we have completed operational programmes as far as the Croatian sides are concerned, and that formal adoption procedures will be either 7 or 9 months depending on the services of the EU Commission and therefore we are not late for other Member States. So there's this basic strategic framework on it is done, but what's important to you is that you know there are another 40 different strategies that follow these two types of documents, which follow operational programmes and that follow the partnership agreement, 40 strategies. From the transport strategy, from the smart specialisation strategy, from the innovation strategy, from the labour market strategy, etc. so that the strategic framework is there, the strategic framework is happening, is complemented by a very intensive dialogue with all stakeholders. But yet there remains one key thing, the gap between strategies and projects is still too big, and there is where we have shortages there is where we all have to work together to bridge in the best way that what we wrote in some document clearly binds to certain projects. And then we go back to what I said, the question of the quality of designing project proposals will be crucial. We have funds to invest in the preparation of projects but we still haven't made a strong system of cooperation, openness, and that's not something that one government can do, it's not something that's solved by a decree from Zagreb, it's something that's a simple state of consciousness. And when we talk about concrete examples of the Vučevica team, what should also be stressed is that each project proposal should be well studied and checked. So before any decision on investment of type 20, 30, 40 million euros, we need to be sure that we have made an optimal choice as regards project design, what the project should have taken, the location of the project, the ability of those bodies who will be able to use it in the right way, in a way that will mean that there is one dose of financial sustainability, that it will not have to be necessary after a year that something has been built to seek state aid to pay directorial costs so that this same building can continue to function. These are things to take care of. And that process lasts. We have seen in this programme that we started in 2012 on average to develop project ideas because what we get is often the title and half page of the explanation, in order to develop this to a decent level takes at least 8 to 12 months of working with experts. As far as the fiscal aspect is concerned, the situation is not the same throughout Croatia. There are local self-governments that have decent fiscal capacity, there are local self-governments that have a serious problem with fiscal capacity. And I'd say something about those who have decent fiscal capacity. And today we meet with units, with cities to say openly whose budget is 60, 80, 100 and more million kuna, and when we ask them how much you invested in preparing projects they're talking about hundreds of thousands. At the same time, sports halls of 10, 15 million kuna and similar projects are planned. So this should not happen but should be vice versa, 10, 15 million kunas for project preparation, and a much smaller amount for the possible co-financing of some projects that they need just to happen in 2014. So we still have a lot of work to do to change our minds, to change the approach of local leaders. Of course, there are local self-governments that need help and as I have pointed out last time with the latest report, the state also helps them through this programme of the Ministry of Regional Development, but also through the new model of fiscal alignment that we are preparing together with the Ministry of Finance. Of course, it's still too soon to talk about it, especially in one ungrateful budget situation as it is, but our goal is to define that model in the next two months, and how much funding of course it's still too soon to talk. This will be meant for the weakest level of units, but for them the same rule should not happen, no matter how small, or 2 or 3 or 5 million kunas for investments, that 4 million kunas go to some of our projects that we are 100% financing because they are very, very important to us, and we are only separating a million or not to say a few hundred thousand to prepare projects and then we ask the state for more millions to help. That's what's on every head of local self-government, along with other co-workers to think carefully and make careful decisions. In each budget of local self-government, there is a certain space, even in the weakest one, and as already there are certain mechanisms, the state will continue to work on the development of these mechanisms. Pre-financing, we mentioned the system a few times, is such that in principle it is possible to get up to 30% of the advance, and with such a solution, we believe that we will remove a large part of the pre-financing problem. As for investment in project preparation, we have said that there are programmes, we will also have funds available from EU funds, so we will increase that part, but it is necessary to increase the investment of local self-government in project preparation. ... the potential of local self-government without the city of Zagreb amounted to over 2 billion kuna in 2012 and we would like to see that a significant part of these 2 billion kuna spending on preparing projects for EU funds. As for co-financing, here is an example of a tender that is currently under way for business and tourism infrastructure. The state provides financing from 95% to 99%, depending on the index of development of certain areas of the Republic of Croatia. This will not always be so, but in principle there will always be a differentiation between certain areas of the Republic of Croatia, depending on the degree of development where the requirements for participation will be lower as the degree of development of a region is lower and we intend to keep it still. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70513	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First came the honorary Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70514	Thank you very much. Mr. Pugliz, I'm glad that you in your final part are relieved to prove who arranged more or less, touched some things superficially, and some pretty deep real problem of using funds. And I think the key thing is to find out what kind of situation the... units of local self-government that don't actually have any administrative departments or administrations at all that will deal with using the European Union's resources, from simply not having the resources in the budget, and then we'll have what we have. Unfortunately, this regional scale of inequality will be growing and growing, but the question is what to do in a situation like this and how to force those units of local self-government, in fact how to direct them to get to that money because apparently many do not know how to get to this partnership so that they can withdraw those funds. And the other thing, it's a fact, and it's been known for several years that we've been engaged in all the consulting capacities of the Republic of Croatia if we want to withdraw this money that belongs to us, in one year it's very difficult for us to do so. And if that were the case with several complex projects, we can only take an example of the town of Karlovac, solving wastewater as many problems as there have been, how many changes of consultants from those who will do projects, from those who will implement projects. So it's simply a matter of learning, but the key moment is this coordination that the government has to simply take on itself. I'm just saying that the units of local self-government are not, okay, that's not so, but we just have to force them to do it because eventually the Republic of Croatia will have no money. We can't say 500 and a few more units of local self-government this one or she hasn't pulled so much and so much. In the end, the Republic of Croatia did not. But if someone has no prepared service at this time, then he can't use those funds for the next 2-3 years because he simply won't have anyone to prepare those projects so he can run to use that money.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70515	Second replica, Marijan Škurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70516	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would really like to point out a few of the important things that have been brought here by the Deputy Minister. One of the most important things that we have discussed here is that the use of the European Union fund is the most important form of decentralisation that we can desire. Why, because anyway, at the local level, it's just up to us, I speak as mayor, we know best what we need and we really need to run it to realize that part of the investment in our area and the ministry has to be just the means to help us realize it. Well, I guess we know best what we need in our field of development, that our environment, our cities can be further raised above all in the economic part. And there really is and there is no excuse for many of us who just want someone else to bring us something without taking some steps ourselves that we should take. And here was the debate why many local administrations don't have their own project offices, why they don't have defined strategic ideas and programs prepared and it's really a question of who's been stopping who's been stopping who so far. We know that we have wanted to join the European Union for many years and now we are... in the European Union. Here's to his example as mayor of one city, the town of Leprechaun, we've been formed... for four years now. We have already defined almost 20 projects of which 12 of us successfully implemented from the European Union funds and now... thanks to the support of the ministry of two large projects: the construction of a technological centre of wood industry and also a project of biodiversity of Croatian Zagorje which will develop at regional level, together with Slovenia and other things. We're still developing certain projects as an integral transport... to any part of it. So with about 10 million kunas of original... income, what's said, 30% we've set aside just for European Union funds programmes and projects, and the rest of the capital investments we've said will come at a time when we'll be able to make use of it. So we can, we have the Ministry's support, it's in the right direction, and I think it's just up to us whether we can use it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70517	Next replica, the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy and you're probably under the impression of this morning's debate, where more talk about European funds, and less about pre-accession programmes, are trapped saying that more ideas are necessary for the realisation of these funds, the design of new projects, more innovation. And you say it in the front row to local self-government. But we are talking through this report on the use of pre-accession programmes which are intended to be about the environment, whether it is about transport, whether it is about regional cooperation and cross-border cooperation, etc. etc. So when it comes to pre-accession programmes that should serve as an option to adapt both state bodies, public enterprises, local self-government to use European funds, we are talking primarily about targeted, targeted projects. And there can be no excuse to say that there are not enough ideas, that there are not enough new design programs, etc. etc. Because that's something that's practically strictly intended if we're talking about IPA for example. And I can agree with you, and I agree that the idea is missing, that the projects are missing. However, it is again up to you in the ministry if you agree with me to make it possible through means of the state budget through education, through working with local self-government, with regional agencies to make it possible to know what is happening in those countries that are successful in withdrawing funds from European funds. So, one thing that today is the topic of debate, and these are pre-accession programs, specifically defined, which are known for what purposes. And the second is both the necessary and necessary ideas that will be the basis for withdrawing funds later, not later than today when we are EU members. Therefore, I would disagree with you in that section when you talk about the lack of ideas in this project that we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70519	We continue with the replicas, Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70520	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In my opinion, esteemed colleagues and colleagues are an extremely important point and an extremely correct debate, where proposals have been made from the field, municipalities, cities, regional self-governments of the county and I think that the esteemed rapporteurs have written something that bothers the territory. One basic question arises whether we are all together from the municipality to the state authorities ready to welcome and whether we have used enough of what we have been offered. My thinking is like once the head of regional self-government that we're not. Is there anything we can fix? I think we can. Because there's been a variety of experiences here. One of the conclusions, many colleagues said municipalities that do not have technical support to do this, to do their programme in the county or in the city or best to join, and the county in our country's eastern part of Croatia is dragons without teeth. The county budgets are very weak if we want to admit it. I don't think we should put everything on the burden of local administration and self-government, chiefs, mayors and mayors, but that we all have a lot of agencies in Croatia together today. I think the government at state level should have helped those who simply can't do it through the local self-government regional unit. That's what this debate has shown and it's not too late, it's not too late to withdraw funds. Because if we don't, neither our children nor our grandchildren will forgive us for missing this great opportunity. Because in the Republic of Croatia's budget for such large projects we know that funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70521	A new replica and a respected Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70522	Here's the esteemed Mr. Pugliz I want to react to this yours so there's no project ideas. I don't think there might be any project ideas for some weird names. Why is the cloud flying over Split in specific meteor conditions... blah, blah, blah. But you can't say that mayors or mayors of municipalities aren't the ones who don't know the problems on the ground, who aren't the most conscious of all the difficulties they have every day in communicating with citizens and their needs. The problem might be that you, they don't call it some names that are acceptable and that's why you should pay those experts or someone who's going to tell us what it's called in the official language, so that it can go somewhere where it should go. But you can't say they don't know that. And for example, one of our counties ordered a Fissibility Study, received a gift from the EU as a gift to them for something. Then after that fissibility was supposed to apply, they said it was no good, so they asked to re-pay that same fissibility study. So much for that. And the third thing about the wolf. You said we couldn't do all the projects that weren't checked out, but the extremely distinguished experts from college were doing regional operational programs. You know what that is. They made them. These programs predicted such a purpose and such a park, that if they came into another position then I don't know what others said, so what did they send you to say now, so we need to check that this project, if it's verifiable. So we can't perform like that and I can't accept that rhetoric, and I can't accept the third, seventh thing. If we call something master's development plan, then it's acceptable, but if we say the master development plan, no one understands. I think the programmes we write for the EU should also be written in Croatian. I don't know why you and the programs we write for the EU need to write English, and then they don't understand local administrations anymore and not even a part of those who wrote what it says there and what our rights are. I stand up, and I think it's our right. that the projects are also in Croatian. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70523	Next replica, the esteemed Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70524	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Pugliz, I can't really talk about whether there are no idea solutions to the projects, but I've said that before. It's hard for me to understand that this is why we need to develop a private consulting sector. What about the public administration? What about what's called personnel that I know are supposed to be additional means of employment. It is even more acceptable for us to hire foreign experts who have been through this and who, if nothing else, will try to educate our people or send them there to countries that have shown good results in withdrawing the funds of structural funds. And just to say that we simply don't have the personnel that could handle it, and I'm not sure that it's been taken seriously and I'm saying it's in contradiction with the forecasting of the funds that we're going to give to make such personnel that are obviously not educated, not professional, why are they hiring them?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70525	And the last replica, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70526	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your dear Deputy Minister, Mr. Pugliz, you said you saw the budgets of certain cities and municipalities in million amounts, that they actually predicted through these budgets some hundred or more thousand kunas for project-related funds. There may be such cities and municipalities, however, you must know that the failure of units of local self-government is the failure of your ministry or the failure of the state as a whole to withdraw funds from the European Funds. I also don't know if it's become a mantra in our society, but local self-government units are actually an alibi to all those who don't know what to say or have no solutions in this society, so it happens with both the government and the Ministry of Administration and the State's Attorney's office, and last night we heard it with USKOK and today from you and the Ministry of European Funds. Although the EU has warned you of both the strategy and the operational plan and that there is not enough quality administrative capacity and the permission to work on the government's information system has been denied, I think it speaks enough of it. Of course, on this debate today and on colleagues who talked about it, I think that you are absolutely clear in which direction we need to act in order to actually withdraw all these funds offered from the Structural Funds, not forgetting the fact that Croatia is also particising with its own amount about these funds, so this alibi regarding the units of local self-government, I don't think it's acceptable and that this mantra with this mantra should actually be interrupted. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70527	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. Report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2013. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2013 is hereby adopted". Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find the conclusion accepted by 79 votes to 28 against and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70529	We move to the next item of the agenda A) Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2011 A) Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2012. The report was delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds and the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The proposing representatives obviously further explain the proposal, so I give the word to Dr Jakša Puljiz, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70530	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The Law on Islands The Government of the Republic of Croatia has an obligation to report once a year the Croatian Assembly on the effects of implementing the Law on Islands. The entry into force of the new law on the establishment and detour of the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration needed to make formal legal changes in 2012. The responsibility of sea-related work for the measures and activities of the sustainable development of the island has shifted from the former Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure to the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, which has been a key development of slower adoption of certain acts as well as a proposal for a report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2011. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, at the same time, report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2011 and the report on the effects of the implementation of the Law in 2012. The reports include segments of the implementation of the Island Act by the state institutions of the public sector, which invested in the development of the Croatian Islands by means of budgets or their own resources in 2011, 2012. Investments in islands are made in two ways, by direct investment of grants from the state budget or budget of public enterprises and by investing through a specific credit programme of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. These investments cover all inhabited Croatian islands and Peljesac peninsula. Since 1999, the state has invested an average of about a billion and a half kuna annually in the development of the island. The activities measures are financed on islands in order to develop sustainable and reduce the depopulation as key development objectives. The report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2011-conceived the way in which individual investment by state institutions, the public sector and the second part analysed the effects and indicators of investment in the development of the island through the implementation of the Island Act for the period 2007-2011, with an emphasis on investment by the former Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure when the then island coastal development administration was part of that ministry. Investments in islands are analysed towards transport, municipal infrastructure, improving the island's connection with land, social infrastructure, the economy through the construction of business zones and through the Croatian island product project, then subsidies and support, primarily support for island employers, subsidies for island public, road transport, maritime transport subsidies, water prices subsidies, and other types of investment. In 2011, the implementation of certain tasks and obligations of established laws on islands and other positive legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia invested 1.4 billion kunas of the budget and legal persons of which a billion and 54 million kunas relate to grants and 369 million kuna relate to the HABOR credit programme. In 2012, the Republic of Croatia invested 1.77 billion kunas in the development of the island, of which 1.12 billion kunas are grants, and 652 million kunas are invested through the credit programme of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Therefore, it is obvious that despite the very difficult economic opportunities and the budgetary situation, there has been an increase in investment in the development of the island in 2012 by 353,77 million kuna. One of the basic preconditions for the development of the island's progress is its lack of isolation, i.e. a better transport connection with the mainland. It is precisely this goal that measures and activities have been stepped up from 2004 to 2012 which contribute to improving the maritime transport system with the mainland, the island with each other and public island transport. The construction of ports and transport infrastructure has been intensified between 2004 and 2011. This period represents a period of significant investment in the development of port infrastructures when 333 million kuna is invested from the state budget. Increase the number and frequency of ship and ferry lines and introduce new, faster, larger and more comfortable ships, introduction of nightboats, introduction of an island map, etc. the vines, the subsidies of maritime and road transport have been achieved better, faster, more quality transport connections of the island with the mainland and the island to each other. During 2012, a total of 11.15 million passengers were transported in maritime transport, which is at 2011 level, compared to 2004, which is an increase of 3 million passengers. As for the number of vehicles transported to the islands and from the island to the mainland, in 2012, the number was 2.76 million kuna, which is slightly less, 1.18% compared to 2011, and compared to 2004, the number of vehicles transported increased by 610 000 vehicles. As regards the state of the passenger fleet, Croatia's passenger fleet has been renovated and modernised, so in the observed period 2004, new ships have been built, new ships have been purchased, and the fleet has indeed become one of the youngest in the Mediterranean. The promotion of regular maritime passenger and high-speed routes, the promotion of shipowners to national navigation through subsidisation of the difference in fuel, and the subsidisation of hull construction and ship reconstruction has been continued. A total of 3.27 billion kuna were allocated from the state budget from 2004 to 2012 for maritime transport subsidies and support, from which 384 million kuna were allocated in 2011, and in 2012. 376 million kuna. As for road investments, in 2011, Croatia's islands were invested in the investment regular extraordinary maintenance of the county local roads 93 million kuna, and in 2012, the amount was increased to 229 million kuna, which means a very high increase in investment. As for... subsidisation of island public road transport it is carried out from a specific category of island population, it is students, students, pensioners and persons over 65 who have the right to free island public road transport. On average, the subsidies of the island’s public road transport amounted to around 28 million kuna per year, in particular in 2011, the amount of 29,7, 2012 was invested. 29,9 but during the entire observed period, this was an average of 28 million kuna. A total of 229 million kuna has been invested since 2001 when this measure is implemented until 2012 only for road transport subsidies. As far as building facilities and utility infrastructure systems are concerned, which is, of course, one of the key factors of quality of life in all areas and islands. During the period 2004-2012, a number of facilities and water supply and disposal systems were designed and installed. The islands are supplied with water from regional waters with springs on land, and water is supplied to sub-sea pipes. Investments have also been made in local water pipelines that draw springs on the island, and we have a third water supply system for waterships. It is also continued to apply measures to subsidise the price of water in island households supplied by water, shipowner or road vehicles, to meet the same conditions for the supply of water to households on islands which are not connected to the public water network with those on land, which means that the State should allocate funds to subsidise those costs. For this purpose 15.11 million kuna was allocated in 2011, and in 2012. 15.3 million kuna. In total, 113.6 million kuna was invested in the subsidy of water prices on islands from 2004 to 2012. Another very important factor in the development of the island, of course, the development of the island economy. The granting of small-value state support to island employers to preserve jobs is one of the measures to encourage the development of the island's economy. From 2006 to 2012, 586 island employers received public calls for public action. Employers who met the conditions and criteria have exercised the right to 1294 support. These support covers a total of 20 000 and 556 employees. The total amount allocated through this measure amounted to an observed period of €62.9 million, i.e. around €63 million in subsidising employment. The largest share of support was allocated to tourism and catering activities, 38%, a significant part goes to shipbuilding, 18% and fishing 14%. In particular, 174 support was granted in 2011, for 2310 jobs, 7 million kuna, 2012. 157 support for 2486 employees, amounting to 8 million kuna. As far as education is concerned, investments were carried out by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds through an island and coastal development programme, a project to build municipal social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands known as CEB 4. These infrastructure development projects on the islands and in the coast known as EIB 3. The Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, i.e. the former Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, in collaboration with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, invested 183 million kunas in the construction of kindergartens, schools and sports halls during the period 2004-2012. It was built and reconstructed 51 objects of which 10 refer to kindergartens, 13 refer to school sports halls. In addition, it is important to mention that the funds for the introduction of teaching are also invested at a distance, so-called. Project E-islets. And before mentioning the investment that is very important for the island education system it is subsidizing for free... transport for students, which allows for longer stay of children with families on the island and education according to modern achievements, I mean the E-editation Project. [[The speaker speaks too fast, he doesn't understand.]] As regards health care from 2004 to 2012, 68.5 million kuna were invested in health care projects from which 2,27 and 2012 were invested. Seven million kuna. As regards the specific categories of old and powerless as very important categories for the islands, given their age structure, it should be noted that the Ministry of Regional Development as well as the former Ministry of Health and Social Care through the CEB 4 programme has invested 33 million kuna in facilities intended for old and powerless persons, allowing all large islands to receive homes for older and powerless or branches of homes which significantly raise the quality of care for this target group. When we talk about the structure of the investment, only a few more data, so in 2012, most of the investment went through the capital donation subsidy of 430 million kuna, through investments to improve the transport connection with the mainland and the island to which 395 million kuna went. As regards the upgrade of the transport infrastructure of investment of 232 million kuna, the municipal infrastructure of 214 million kuna, investment in an economy of 124 million kuna. So now I'm only talking about 2012 It should mention another measure that is the return on income tax imposed on the island units of local self-government, that is, the addition to which they have the right to capital investment. In 2012, through that additional share... income tax made investments amounting to €42.8 million on islands. As regards the implementation of projects under the so-called programme. The EIB 3, which is conducted on the basis of the European Investment Bank's loans and the investment of the national budget of the unit of local self-government, is worth 50m euros without VAT, of which 25m euros are financed by the European Investment Bank while 25m euros increased for VAT costs will still be provided by the state budget. In 2012, a realisation was launched, 7 sub-projects were approved for now, with 7 million kuna spent in 2012. Of course it's just the beginning of the work. In the coming years, it will be a significant investment in a much larger amount. As far as CEB 4 is concerned, only the final data, 98 projects are financed through the CEB 4 programme on 39 Croatian islands and Peljesac peninsula. I think that this brief review of the country's investment in 2011, but throughout the period 2004 to 2012 clearly shows that the state continues to take significant care of the development of these areas. In 2011 and 2012, the level of investment remained very high, in 2012 it further increased compared to 2011. It is important to highlight the HBOR credit programme to which a significant part of the investment is going and which has seen a significant increase around I think about 300 million kuna is more HBOR credit ratings in 2012 compared to 2011. Another information that speaks about the situation on the islands, however, can be concluded that during the period 2001 to 2011, as shown by the census data, opportunities for socio-economic opportunities on Croatian islands are certainly not worse. The census said that by comparing 2001 and 2011, we have a population census of 123 to 125 thousand people on the islands. However, since the methodologically incomparable data are also due to differences in methodologies, then what DSZ experts have recommended for us to use population assessment data for 2010 says the situation is even better. So it turns out that the population increased from 123,000 people in 2001 to 137,000 people in 2010. Now no matter what methodology is more accurate, it is certainly one thing, and this is that the socioeconomic opportunities on islands are difficult but still partly thanks to those investments from the state budget, it is obvious that much better trends are seen in terms of demographics, but also in terms of the economic situation on islands, especially when we want to compare it with some other areas of the Republic. This is also the case with the development index, as according to the 50 units of local self-government on islands and Peljesac 31 units of local self-government has a development index of over 100%, i.e. above the average developed units of local self-government. However, the Croatian state will continue to support the development of Croatian islands, respecting all their specificities and, above all, the problem of transport isolation. But we must also not ignore the fact that islands, compared with no other areas, can actually be more and more isolated by some positive characteristics. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70531	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First came the honorary Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70532	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, in your presentation, you have partly been, and so in the report itself, referred to data for the past nine years, so since 2004-2012, and that's fine, I have no objections. But what can be concluded for 2012 and 2013 is what responsibility for Croatia's leadership has taken over this government. We are not on islands, and you will probably agree with that, get no new measure within the framework of projects, laws, programs that would apply to islands. The government simply continues to inertly implement the measures it has inherited from previous governments. The second thing that seems to me is that apart from the lack of these new projects, it seems to me that the ministry is not awake enough, the Ministry of origin for Croatia when it comes to the adoption of other laws of the other ministries within the Government, and it is not in a few, and I will respond well enough in the individual debate to protect in a certain way of life on Croatian islands as we expected. I share that it is also because of the poor organisation of the ministry in the part where the former island development administration has been abolished and it seems to me that in this sense it is also humane, and I would say the organisationally impoverished former island development administration, which in the former ministries has made in a certain way a small ministry for the Croatian islands. And therefore these indicators that mentioned you earlier, which showed life on the islands, are probably the result of such a designed policy approach towards Croatian islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70533	Another replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70534	Thank you very much. Well, I didn't mean to, but Mr. Deputy mentioned EIB 3 so let's get this straight. You have now said that the project was launched in 2012, that 7 projects were launched, that so much money was spent and that this would continue to develop, etc. In this house I spoke twice about it, twice we got the answer in this assembly that this project is being downloaded, that it will no longer be in progress, and on the parliamentary board we also got the answer that this project ends in 2013, so in 2014, it will no longer be implemented except in the part of paying for what was launched. You just said he's going on. So if you don't just stay in the air or make it look like you're telling the truth, tell us what you're going to do with EIB 3 concerning islands and coasts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70535	Would you like to answer that? Here you go. Deputy Minister Jaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70536	As regards EIB 3 it will be implemented in 2014 as well. Of course, in this current budgetary situation, we will not argue that the entire scope of the programme will be carried out safely. Namely, what's this about? We are in 2014, 2015 will be the year that should be marked by the use of primarily European funds. EIB funds are credit funds returned by the Republic of Croatia and, of course, we must be careful there and really set up projects in a way to ensure the implementation of the credit fund project to the extent that we cannot immediately include funds from European funds, but as soon as we can include funds from European funds, we will continue to implement such projects and such funding programmes from European funds. That's our goal. But we didn't want to stop EIB 3 until the end, of course, because we still don't have fully developed programmes in 2014 that we can also finance from European funds, but we have to think about 2015 now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70537	The last replica, the esteemed Tonka Ivčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70538	Your Honor, Vice President. Deputy Minister, you said that the islands are being invested in a lot of social care through capital investment in nursing homes. I would like to add one more thing here that I did not find in this report at all, and it is very important to invest in islands just by the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. These are help programs in the house and living room that are carried out on a series of islands. I know it's being spent safely on Visa, Hvar, Lastovo, also on islands in the Zadar area where the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth co-finances salaries for the geronto-domestics, for auxiliary workers, nurses. It also sets aside material costs for these centres. This has failed to put in this report, and it is very important for the islands because here on the island of Vis, the Ministry is detaching as many as 600,000 kunas from its resources for this purpose as I said, and through our center we care for 175 users in the entire island and we employ as 13 workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70539	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Yaksha Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70540	I thank you for this note and we will include it in the next report and this program.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70541	Thank you. I ask if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Damir Cain has applied for the club of Independent Representatives. He's gone. That club is losing the right to discuss this. On behalf of the SDP club, tonka Ivcevic will speak with respect. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70542	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister Mr. Puljiz, Mr. Curlin, colleagues and fellow MPs. There are two reports before us on the effects of the implementation of the 2011 and 2012 Island Act and the SDP Club will support both reports. Article 38 obliges us to discuss the effects of the implementation of the Island Law. The island law and it is good to discuss this topic in the Assembly since the islands are Croatian natural wealth, and properties on islands of particular national, historical, economic and ecological significance, of interest to the Republic of Croatia, have its special protection. Sustainable development of the island involves sustainable use of island potential, continuous improvement of island life, building ecologically similar infrastructure. The preferred sustainable development of the island creates a national interest in the management of island development in order to work on complete and sustainable use of island resources. It is therefore necessary to balance the comparative advantages of the island and the limiting factors, on the one hand, the climate, the geographical location, the island landscape, in most cases intact nature, a good perspective for the development of tourism, agriculture and fisheries, and, on the other hand, the lack of working and fertilised population, a lack of island, port and road infrastructure, although they may say that this area has invested quite well in the previous period. Abandoned and mostly impenetrable Polish roads, lack of infrastructure, wastewater disposal and waste dumps, unsettled catastres and property. Nearly all ministries and a large number of public sector companies participated in the implementation of the Island Act. There has certainly been continuous investment in the islands for many years, so almost one and a half billion kuna were invested in the islands in 2011, and in 2012, one billion and 777 million kuna, which is 20% more than in 2011. Investments through the loaning of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development are almost doubled, which leads us to conclude that there is increased economic activity on the islands. Since these credit activities relate to investment in tourism, in the preparation of the tourist season, to the economic development programme, to the preparation of exports, to the IPARD development of rural infrastructure, to the lending of the preparation of agricultural production and to the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises. This suggests that despite the recession, the difficult operating conditions of the island's economy manages to maintain the level of necessary investments to survive and continue to develop their activities, although I believe that this is still insufficient and that islands have much greater potential and many unused resources that need to be directed towards development. That's why it's not just budget funds that matter. It is very important that the laws we make in this House of Higher Education, which can affect better economic climate and new investments in the Republic of Croatia, as well as in the islands. It is also necessary to implement a greater decentralisation of funds so that units of local self-government on the islands can strengthen and invest independently in the development of their island resources. A good example is the means of returning income taxes to the island units of local self-government. This enables the use of part of income tax, i.e. 15.5% of the same in such a way that income tax is made in the area of municipalities and cities to give concessions to municipalities and cities which conclude the Agreement on joint financing of capital projects of interest for the development of the island. 20 projects totalling 43 million kuna were financed from these funds in 2012. It would certainly be good if the new Law on maritime good and seaports plans to leave a higher amount of revenue achieved from concessions in the maritime good, cities and municipalities in which this revenue has been achieved. Maritime well-being is the most important resource of all islanders, and there is no need to explain why. But the responsibility of the local self-government units is great because they care about a part of the maritime goods that is not concentrated, which is also over 90% of the coastal area. Our ports, waterfronts, beaches, our coast are our mirror and their appearance depends on our presentation, but also the value of the destination itself. Therefore, all responsible chiefs, the mayors pay great attention to the arrangement of the island coast, although in the largest number of cases on the part of the coast, where the biggest income is collected, and these are the nautical bonds managed by someone else – most often the county port administrations and collect income that then return to the dropper through investments invested in the port and only on that part of the port. Measures related to their traffic connection to the mainland are important for the development of the island. Since this is the most important segment of island sustainable development and a fundamental assumption for the management of island development policy. This is where the incentives are directed through three activities. Incentives of regular maritime, passenger and fast shipping lines via the Coastal Line Transport Agency. To this end, 374 million kuna of aid was paid and over 11 million passengers were transported in 2012, and nearly 3 million vehicles at the level of the previous year 2011. Here I would just add that I believe that the prices of travel tickets to the island should be reduced, that the season should be from 1.7 to 31.8 when it is in the cave together and that only then could they have higher prices, and not from 1.6, as this is now the case when the islanders do not have full capacity. The next activity is subsidising the difference in fuel prices. The right to small value support in question was achieved by shipowners carrying out the activities of circular trips, day-to-day and multi-day excursion tourism, and carrying burdens on inland waters and the territorial sea. And finally, the third activity carried out by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure is subsidising the construction of a ship's reconstruction hull. This incentive was used by 13 boaters in total amounting to 3 and a half million kuna. As far as transport infrastructure is concerned, the living conditions of the island population are greatly improved, with the help of Croatia's roads which, through investment, regularly, invested 229 million kunas. The Government of the Republic of Croatia attaches importance to island sustainable development through the financing of numerous measures. The analysis of island development policy measures suggests that investments in municipal and social infrastructure and a number of other investments in islands have had a positive impact on the development of the island. The fact is that islands are above the national average by the development index but still life on islands is perceived hardly sustainable, suggests the need to formulate new measures and policies towards islands that will have a development goal. Here, it should be noted that smaller islands in the Zadar, Sibenik and Dubrovnik areas belong to these very cities that have a high index of development, and therefore they get this high index which limits them to obtain money from the European funds from the state budget. I therefore propose that islands in the approval of funds and in the projects for EU funds are categorized and additionally, in a way that is shared by the Islands Act to the first and second group, which is much more just because here in the first group and there are all undeveloped and underdeveloped islands for which the support should be much, much greater. In addition to the investment that I have mentioned so far, through the ministries and the public sector, it has invested in municipal infrastructure and environmental protection, economy, culture, education, health, social care, etc. which I will not elaborate individually because everything is explained in detail in the reports themselves and is further explained by the Deputy Minister. In the end, let me conclude. In recent years, the islands have been investing heavily, I hope that this will be the future and that with the help of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, we will be able to prepare valid projects to attract as many European funds aimed at the island's development needs. I also hope that we have created preconditions for putting into service a significant number of former military facilities on the islands. A State Property Management Strategy, Law and Regulation on State Property Management has been adopted and a register has been established. All of this should mean that in the following reports we will have information on how many former military facilities are put into operation to develop an island economy. In conclusion, islands are Croatian natural wealth and should be treated accordingly. The government, ministry, public sector, units of local and regional self-government, economics and island population can make major leaps, stop depopulation and make life on the islands desirable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70543	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First came the dear Ante Jerolimov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70544	My colleague Ivčević here I would like you to have signed on behalf of the SDP from word to word what you have read and what you have said and what reference you have given. But where's the problem? You said it all well and all the way it should be because you're the chief who comes from the island, who has experience and who knows the difficulties of the island. However, the government, your government, our, or coalition government, is doing everything the other way around. You spoke of the Law on the Sea Good, how more units of local self-government should remain and concessions are abolished in the proposal of the Law on the Sea Good, the establishment of an agency, less funds and money to units of local self-government is proposed. You were talking about the price of tickets, and we're also witnessing that tickets go up from year to year. You've been talking about the number of lines on certain lines, we've witnessed that it is during this government year by year that the number of lines in individual areas or individual lines decreases. You were talking about municipal infrastructure here and the deputy minister said that the key factor in quality of life on the island is just investing in municipal infrastructure. Well, it's never been less invested than it was in 2012. You were talking about the development index, 58.6 million was invested in, you were talking about the development index. Well, we just witnessed that some are islands, for example. I'll take the Zadar Archipelago of Silba and Olib, Rave and Iža, which belong to Zadar equal to the index of a city in Zadar. Does the government really think that the same life on the island, the Silba on the Premuda, is on Rava as in one city in Zadar? So they really praise every speech, but that's what we suggest you speak well, but you're doing everything wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70545	The replica matches the respected Tonka Ivčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70546	So here's to the Law on the Sea Good, a proposal that is under public debate and is still under public debate and I think the Minister himself on the ground has come to realize, he has seen some mistakes in the law itself which gives me to conclude that a public debate has already been extended twice and that the minister wants to get as many observations from the field as possible to bring the law into line and improve as much as possible. I have personally written 12 pages of objections to the law in question, and I hope that this will all affect that some articles of that law and change. As far as the lines you were talking about are concerned, I really have no idea that going one line was abolished in the Split-Dalmatia County area is not safe. And also seasonal ticket prices have not been increased in view of the prices that existed for the previous governments. something slightly increased prices for islanders, and only on fast shipping lines, so there were really no deviations from the 2011 and 2012 reports, but I think here I find that it is not good then and neither is it now, so that this period should still be reduced. But here's specifically on the island of Vis, so our season for introducing additional lines starts on 01.07. and the season for card-gathering starts on 01.06. and I don't think that's right. Why might we be investing less in municipal infrastructure during this period? Because most of it has already been built because the municipal infrastructure is really very much invested, I can say that again for my Dalmatian area, we have indeed all solved both the water supply and the road and the only problem in this area is possibly the disposal and recovery of the dump that we are working on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70547	Thank you. Second replica, the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70548	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Ivčević, I would like to agree with you in a very, very large part of your presentation, and I would particularly agree with the two tips you have drawn. The first refers to ticket prices in maritime transport, in particular the date of the increase or introduction of seasonal prices, and on the other hand, your commitment to better transport connections and a number of lines. You're saying there's not a single line on the Adriatic. The line's gone, but I don't know what you mean by the line. Frequencies have been lifted, decreased, frequency has been severely reduced on individual lines. It's the same line removal, and you're saying yourself it's gone along the coast. So, in order for what you said to be realized, which I agree with, it is necessary for the Agency for Line Coastal and Maritime Transport to remain at the level of State budget subsidies which it had at least in 2012, because the problems have already arisen in 2013, and what problems will be in this year, we will still have opportunities to discuss this because this year's budget is scheduled for agency 326 million kuna, somewhere around 60 million kuna. Well, how do you think this government, if it agrees with your ticket reduction and the high season doesn't last how long it takes now when it comes to ticket prices and how it will increase the number of lines to the islands when the agency at the same time reduces prices? It's only possible to further increase the price of cards or what's going on, which is that they don't even sail the lines that are agreed on, but I'll talk about it later when we're in an individual debate because I don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70549	The replica matches the respected Tonka Ivčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70550	Well, I agree with you, colleague Bačić, I think the subsidies have already been agreed because the tender for all shipowners was last year and it is clear on which line is the amount of subsidy and I don't think anyone can back down from it and that it is guaranteed and that no budget can be reduced because they are multi-annual contracts. So I'm not afraid for that part, and I think this number of lines we have so far will remain safe. I repeat again, there is really no knowledge that any line has been abolished except along the coastal line because it was seasonal, in this whole area, as far as I know, it's the same as it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70551	We're continuing the club debate. The position of the HDZ club will be presented by the respected Josip Boris, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70552	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Deputy and Assistant. Here's the position of the HDZ club. We think first that it was too late to discuss the 2011 and 2012 report with Article 38, which mentioned the Deputy Parliament, where at least once a year should be informed about what is happening in this respect, means that we should have discussed politics towards the islands twice in two years. What we consider to be the worst, which we have already mentioned is the abolition of the Department of Islands and the conversion of it into a sector within the Ministry of Regional Development. I think it's one of the worst moves that could have happened to islands and islanders because experiences over the past 14 years have shown that only when the administration was independent, that only when management led the people of the island had real development and full affirmation of Croatian islands and states showed exceptional attention and achieved good and quality projects. It's not a good practice to set up an island council after two years, at least we could have done it in the first year because it's just a small act and it's bad. And what else is the worst? That this report has not been discussed for the first time in history by the Parliamentary Maritime Committee. It never happened to this so-called report. parent even though we are in regional development, but the Assembly Committee on Maritime Affairs has not considered or discussed this at all. Anything else could come to mind in the light of what has already been seen because despite this failure, the long-established legislative framework shows that, like all other islands-based programmes, the amount of over a billion and 300 million kunas is possible without too much effort, which is some kind of a 10-year average. When we talk about islands, we need to know that there are 78 islands, 524 islands, 642 rocks, 1244, that they make up 5% of the surface of the Republic of Croatia, that the number of inhabitants makes up a total of 3% of the total population of the Republic of Croatia, that Croatia has the second most divorced coast in Europe after Norway, that they have a strong tourist potential, that they have registered somewhere between 250 and 300 thousand beds without one part of them which is not registered, and as regards cottages and private houses, that according to the islands, there are 50 state lines, 24 ferry lines, 11 ships, 15 fastboats, that 67 of them are constantly inhabited, that the highest population on the island of Krk, 19 thousand 286 we have three National Parks Mljet, Kornati and Brijuna and two Nature Park Lastovo and Telašić. And the structure of this report shows that from year to year it is equal to, more or less, the old data are copied, and the deputy has given one full display from 2004 to 2012 more than what was concrete in 2011 and 2012. The programmes have also been set up long ago, capital and ongoing assistance to local self-government, water supply subsidies, road transport subsidies, HOP, maritime transport subsidies, small value support, construction of port infrastructure, a special part of income tax, loans to CEB 4 and EIB 3 loans to HBOR and new ones, which are only new, these are European funds. 3 billion 200 in two years of this 2179 grants a billion and 20 through lending is again similar in the structure over the past ten years. As the most significant investments came from the ministries that did so in previous years, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, HEP, Croatian Roads, Croatian Waters, HBOR and there amounts vary from year to year, may a little more, sometimes a little less but over a billion always be. We've heard everything that's been going on, we haven't heard what's going on. So let's look at the maritime connection, we've heard something but to make it clearer. In 7 years, the number of passengers on ferry lines has increased by 3 million. 2004. 8 million 140, 2011. 11 million 170 grand. The number of vehicles increased by 594 thousand, 2004. 2 million 153,000 vehicles, 2011. 2 million 797 thousand vehicles. In 2011, a million 121 thousand passengers were transported in high-speed lines. When we look at 2012 and compare it with that achieved in 2011, we have a drop of 33,000 vehicles of 13 passengers, and on the fast-ship lines 51 thousand passengers less. These are the results of the measures that have been withdrawn and those who claim that when you gather the map that everything will be the same, they have received the statistical assurance that it is not and that there is a need to take care of it. After seven years of investment in 2004-2011, 12 new ferrys, Marijan, Cres, Bol, entered the Adriatic fleet programme worth 130m euros. Krševan, Zadar, Supetar, Juraj Dalmatinac, Hrvat, Ilovik, Biokovo, Jadran and Korčula, two catamarans Karolina and Novalja in the meantime and rapist sailing as a private small boater bought and obtained his two ferrys of St. Marin and Barbat. In these two years we have an announcement of four new ferrys of Jadrolinia. I hope it sails soon, and there's a programme I've heard 30 million euros, but we need to think about what to do next. The port infrastructure in 2004-2011 invested 335 million kuna and covered 72 ports. Resuscitation, construction, construction. In the 2012 report, there is no port in which investment was made even though the position within the Maritime Ministry existed which happened with those money we do not know. What's the conclusion? So from the number of passengers and vehicles on 50 state ferry lines, it suggests that this segment was brought in when it should be determined as far away as possible, as with the renewal of the fleet, what with the prices that have increased, what with frequencies, and in particular what with the relationship to small islands that are composed of large cities. The day-to-day stagnation and failure to take more active measures will lead to further declines in traffic and revenues, trends suggest. If what was announced yesterday to reduce our additional maritime subsidies because of what needs to be cut, the question arises how will Jadrolini function with new credit obligations, with a previous one? With a reduced subsidy, the survival of the state ship itself is at stake. I hope it'll be smart enough not to touch that segment even though it's ugly we heard about almost 60 million kuna compared to 2011. There are no new developments in education, health and social care. After intensive renovation of the homes of health, homes for the elderly, schools, sports halls, these two reports show that other than the completion of the Hall in Tisno and the clinic in Kali, there are no new projects. We are concerned with the announcement by the Minister of Education that he will abolish small regional schools in the entire region of Croatia, which probably includes Croatian islands. Such a move would be unreasonable and in the long run would do irreparable damage to overall life on islands, especially small, and would have a significant impact on the demographic structure of Croatian islands. Whoever does this will show that he understands neither the time nor the place, nor his own mission in education. It's similar to what's happening to us in the judiciary with the announced dispensation of courts. Road transport subsidies, maritime transport and water supplies allow cheaper life and are held at a level of 410 million kuna per year. As far as the economy is concerned, I think it is necessary to come up with new programmes because the very support of small value and these 60 million kunas over the past seven years are not enough help. It is very valuable here HOP Croatian island product project from visual labelling of island products. There is a great quality and achievement of 334 products marked with 19 islands and Peljesac peninsula of 121 island producers. 500 thousand kuna a year is not enough support for this project to move on. What has happened and is happening in Zagreb should be to complete this space and enable the first specialized trade of such products in the largest city in the Republic of Croatia. Entrepreneurial zones on islands remain, although they invest in infrastructure, they are quite empty. Despite the new Strategic Investments Act, we think a different way to approach this problem is also needed. As regards loans, CEB 4 was the biggest project in the history of investment in Croatian island infrastructure worth 386 million kuna without VAT of 193 million were provided by the Republic of Croatia and the Bank of CEB. It includes 98 of the initially planned 110 projects that needed to modernise one part of the rural area by building municipal social infrastructure on 39 Croatian islands. The EIB 3 financing contract was signed on 15 September 2011. He's still available today, the Parliament discussed him. It clearly writes 50m euros without VAT, 25 banks, 25 states, 20-year maturity, the starting date means 5 years, the first tranche of the 7m-euro advance, but in 2012 without the need for the state to give its share within those 7m euros. And we come to a situation where the ministry decides that this loan is lifted, to stop, that what was not used not to be taken and to pay for those penals that should be paid. Is that a reasonable decision? I don't think the finance minister can run the Department of Regional Development. If Linic leads us to the Ministry of Regional Development, we need to know. Long-term and quality policy would make this loan the most favourable asset we can get today, there are interest rates no more than 2.5%. The payment deadline is long, beginning quite favourable, a period of use for 4 years with the possibility of extending that deadline. The first tranche welcomed the authorities, the new authorities, were specific projects, the bank approved projects. Letters of intent for the first tranche were sent and the project was launched in 2012. In 2013, we had in the first year 30 million, now it was 50 million, so it wasn't realized, now it's left 50 again and we hear on the board one story we're going to borrow, it's a finished story, the deputy says now the loan continues. Minimum is that we know what is waiting for us because these are the only funds we can count on, on which the mayors, mayors and should be available to them because if others can be in debt, if it can be guaranteed to many public enterprises, I think that 25 million euros of credit to Croatian islands is not something that this country cannot do within those time limits that are provided, so much as we know that the Ministry of Regional Development last year was taken away from 130 million kuna at the end of the year that could be part of the domestic component. And in conclusion, we need to determine as far away as we can, whether we're going to change the island law, whether we're satisfied with the current state that can be called stagnation. Whether EU funds are the only thing left to expect or other species will be helped. If they remain in the position that EIB 3 should be stopped or given up. The legislative framework, we welcome the fact that the Law on Islands remains, but please leave the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas and the PPDS, they are not an obstacle to the development of this country, and at least they are a burden. It's time to change the island law after eight years. This is why we propose a new distribution or classification of Croatian islands into five groups. The first would be... islands: Krk, Pag, Vir, Murter and Ciovo; in the second large islands nearest to the mainland: Rab, Cres, Lošinj, Ugljan, Pasman, Solta, Brač, Korčula and Hvar; in the third large islands would be coastal islands, those that are large but far from the mainland: Dugi Otok, Vis, Lastovo and Mljet; in the fourth small populated or occasionally populated islands in the administrative composition of large local self-government on land and islands: the Union, Susak, Ilovik etc., not to count, and in the fifth would be small uninhabited islands. On this basis, all possible measures and assistance from the state budget, co-financing of projects, application of the Regional Development Act, as well as possible reliefs for certain areas. Re-examine the provisions on the right of first purchase of real estate on the islands as they apply with difficulties. It just doesn't work. Dispose of provisions not applicable to state programmes, sustainable development programmes of the island, review this after entering the European Union, as well as provisions on hunting and small fishing, the Committee for the Islands, etc. There are a number of articles that determine that law, which are in difficulty or are not implemented. It would be good to write a new Law on Islands, and I think in the end that it is not good to speak in the islands of statements on the islands to live well. You live well, you live a little better than you used to, but for another 10 years, we're going to need the care of this country and the state has to finally determine it. Reports are history, that's what happened, but we're interested in what's waiting for us and where we should end up, not just in the next two years, but at least for the next eight years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70553	Thank you. We have 7 replicas reported on this exhibit. We certainly won't be able to absorb them all seven to one. Branko Bacic picked up the first line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70554	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Borić, you have rightly noticed that the Parliamentary Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications has not discussed this report for the first time since the reports have been submitted in the Assembly, and as the Committee on Regional Development should be the parent body of this Assembly because the Law on Maritime Integration and the transport linkage of the island is a presumption of the development of Croatian islands. So the report itself shows that every third kuna the state invests in the islands comes right from the Maritime Ministry through subsidisation of maritime transport. So on this trail, when I had just failed due to the time limit of Ms. Ivocevic to replicate, one very important maritime line was lifted on the Croatian islands, which existed from the Vikings, which connected three counties to the County of Zadar, County of the coastal-goran and County of Istria, which is the fast-board line of Zadar-Ilovik-Mali Lošinj-Union-Pula, which was practically inherited by a long-term shipping line carried out by the Marina ship, which is a practical and tourist connection, but in any case contributed to the development of these Zadar islands that connect in the Zadar Archipelago. Therefore, the government has abolished this line, it has not been concessioned, after 60-70 years practically this line is interrupted, and what it means for the life of these islands, this tourism and Mali Losinj, which was connected to Zadar and Pula and that whole, that part of the Croatian islands, I think you are aware of that too. And I fully agree with you that projects such as EIB 3 that were classified and designated for Croatian islands, partly and for coastal areas should continue because such a favourable credit line for investment in infrastructure was communal, whether it is socially difficult to find and I do not believe that there was so little money that this project was not completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70555	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70556	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, we have rightly warned, and it is the power that must determine what it will. We can simply warn from the opposition, and we warn of the situation in the maritime sector because that is what the shipowners are telling us. I don't know what Jadrolini's into. Yesterday I'm reading here's a four-track exit. They're reviewing a tender to be told what these ferrys will be called, that someone will tell them that four newly built ferrys are going to be called to sail during this year or at the end of this year. And on the side, they're lurking in danger. They're in charge of credit, they're bailing out. Okay. But if we reduce our subsidy even further as yesterday was announced because everyone has to cut, and especially the maritime sector, transport, infrastructure, then we must clearly tell the islanders. Gentlemen, if your subsidies go down another 20 million kuna or 30 you'll get more expensive tickets. There's no other substitute than more expensive cards, and if that's the interest of this government, then let him do it, and we know how the islanders will react to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70557	Another replica, the esteemed Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70558	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleague Boric. I'm glad to hear your exposure because you know everything today, you know everything, you understand everything. When you were a secretary of state or eight years in power, you forgot a lot or you certainly didn't know. As far as new ships are concerned, I think that in 2011, you've already lifted along the coastal line, and you haven't secured a high-quality ship that could be replaced, but it's driving an old ship with a very questionable quality and transport itself. As far as school is concerned, the school's termination. In 2010, you began to shut down when you created the school network. There's already been a request to terminate certain schools. You talk a lot, not just you, but the rest of your colleagues. The Minister of Finance runs this ministry, the Minister of Finance runs this. I think a good host should leave his heirs with something that they can live in quality. And you're gone, leaving it behind, we all see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70559	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70560	Thank you very much. Well, I don't know if you attended a colleague named Marelic this debate, but I think we left it behind. And the deputy himself has repeated all the programs, the amounts that have been achieved by the basis of these programmes. Well, I guess that's some kind of legacy. What are we supposed to leave? You talk like you're from Panchev? Well, I mean, you always suggest to us what we should have done. So you run this country, you've been given a mandate to come up with at least one program in four years. What did you do in a year? You're gonna end what was good. Well, if that's the answer, then do it. Can someone get in the way of that? We in opposition certainly don't. But you will not forbid us the right to speak, and we speak what is true. Who took out schools on islands? Well, we worked schools for a student at Premuda and today he's there. And it should stand there, on small islands, all of Zadarian. We introduced an e-school program that won the first award in Barcelona as the most innovative and today applies, but not to a sufficient extent because there is no ability to develop a broadband network with all the agencies, along with all the HAKs, with everything that you've spread across all the agencies and wherever you've arrived. As far as the ship's speedy line is concerned, at least it was seasonal. You've canceled that, too. Because whatever's wrong with you, because you don't know how to get out of the problems that you're getting yourself into because you don't have a strategy and you don't know what to do. And we offered a solution if you listened to me. Let's make n this systematization of the island, I think it's adapted to new weather. Come on, new island law, you have two years, we discuss it, we bring it by consensus and we stand behind it like it's been for 13 years. And don't keep telling us what you left us. So you run this country and say what you want from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70561	To his club, the HDZ club will now be replicated by Djurdzica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70562	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm very glad to replicate on behalf of my club. I know, but I'm going to replicate a colleague of mine. [[/Intruder Stazic: Not on behalf of his club. Mr. Boric spoke on behalf of your club.]] I know, you're always stressing it, so I think it's very important. [[Intruder Stazic: Club, you are replicating the club.]] Otherwise, when it's replicated differently, you never emphasize it, but it doesn't matter. This is very little important in relation to this difficult problem ahead of us. Comrade Boric, you said here are even the best men to say what will be called, what will be the name of the ferry. You also talked about copying old data. Of course, you stressed because there are no new ones. You see, fellow Boric, they can't possibly come up with a solution because the perception of life on the island is simply perception of the one who came out of the shade of the villa on Hvar drunk with a cricket when the prime minister said that the islands in reality live very well, perhaps a little better than on land in northwestern Croatia. Afterwards, he sat on an official plane and left for free for Krk. Well, you can't see it, that way you can't see the problem. You were talking about education. Minister Jovanovic announces the abolition of small regional schools. It doesn't happen anywhere in the world on any island. What you said and a student is being taught. How are teachers and teachers subsidized to work on these islands? None, but even their regular travel charges are denied. In fact, they will now be taken from their wages, so the summer passes, the crickets stop chirping, the diameter has long forgotten what he said and the island lives and lives, and as the islanders know it best, which leaves them with wind and storm.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70563	Thank you. The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70564	Comrade twilight, we have warned, we have expressed the state it is and a minimum understanding of the authorities would be that it either respects or works by its own means. Why would an important management for the islands of those 12 years and in the time of the coalition government was the management of the islands then with the PPDS together but it was. There was an islander, there was a Hvaran in charge, and they started the programs. We continued, the legislative framework was firm and secure, only once changed and was not a burden. Some laws here change three times a year. Now the time has come after eight years to review certain provisions. Some don't go, they just don't go and we offer solutions. On the other hand, you have some kind of criticism or attack because it's the most important thing or it's the smartest thing to do today because you don't know what you're going to do next, so they're showing indices, we're falling into traffic. We grew three million in eight years, and we stopped, almost to move on. We need some innovative project, say, in a ship's connection to these little islands. Should Croatia shipbuilding that can build that ship make one faster ship that can take 20 cars, 50 passengers that will replace a ferry that is bad or we need not yet know 7 large ferrys with which we may no longer know where to find them. That's what someone has to determine. And we're asking politics to tell us, not to fight here what someone once did and whether it's good enough that it's left because here we go for the inert, so we'll end up somewhere. Whoever dares to cut schools on islands, he doesn't know what he's doing, and he's better off giving up before he even thought about it,
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70565	New replica, respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70566	My colleague, you mentioned something in your discussion, which is good that you mentioned because it was almost forgotten, and that is when during Sanader who triumphantly came here that no more alienated property on islands or properties, you mentioned the right of first purchase. However, the problem was, we immediately warned and then that no funds were provided in the state budget where the state would buy it if there was a desire to sell it from the owners themselves. That's one thing. You also talk about schools, about life, who touches schools, but we have to remember and find the answer that remains that many islands had their own industry, just don't cut so my mother on the island of Brač at the time of my childhood when I used to come there had a small place of 3 factories. Now what do you need to do? And that's what you're saying, you need to find a long-term and quality policy for islands which you as an assistant, a long-time assistant for islands certainly and you know it's not a transfer when we're in opposition to central government and vice versa. Care for islands and states, but above all, as well as county and cities and municipalities, and especially those cities that have islands in their town, such as Zadar, it also has Premud, Silba, Olib, Iž, Ravu, Molat has nine islands and what is needed, it is necessary first and foremost to have infrastructure that is the same as in the city, to design programmes, EU funds are just abounding in rural development where whatever rural environment they want to do only in local self-government is primarily to help citizens and propose projects themselves so that they can withdraw funds and restore their lives in some way, primarily by investing in infrastructure, because it is precisely the Zadar Islands that needs the most.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70567	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70568	Thank you very much, colleague Ingrid. Nice to meet you. As for the first one, it was imagined, it was well imagined, we spent it, the State's Attorney's Department gave a list, we recorded the Republic of Croatia on all properties, blocked, for eight years no one was able to sell any more of their real estate. [[Speaker not enabled]] What's the problem? Not whether the state has or has no means. The problem was that the story was over-inflated, which went out like that to sell Croatian islands, and today there are on many ads, sold as a whole, let's say at Kvarner in one part of Istria and can be sold, a certain procedure should be passed by local self-government and state. Is it the state's interest to buy all these properties? He wasn't then, was he interested in protecting himself somewhere where it was necessary, was, but such property was not sold. After eight years of experience, we can very easily change the law to solve it, we can lift the whole head that concerns the first one and leave it on the market to see what we're going to do now that the real estate market doesn't work at all or it's almost gone. Whether there are interested people who want to buy the whole island but before that, we need to take those three steps, determine the limit of maritime good that we know what the state is, which can't be sold and what was then the case with one islet and that we know where it's going with that. As for small islands, we have proposed a new systemization and there are these small, populated or occasionally populated islands in the administrative composition of large local self-government on land and islands. ... Premuda, Silba, Olib, East, Iž, Rava, Mola, Sestrunj, Zverinac, Vrgada, Prvic, Zlarin and not to list any of those belonging to an administrative large unit on land have almost nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They operate at the level of local committees and them and the state can hardly subsidize because the development index is as developed as the city of Zadar, Sibenik, Mali Losinj, Dubrovnik and Trogir.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70569	The replica of Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70570	Col. Boric, here you are as an experienced man who works at the ministry very well, you have observed and in fact the best confession was given to you by Mr. Bačić and everyone who worked at the ministry assistant minister who spoke 90% of his presentation in 2004-2011 and everything that was done and 90% of what was said today, and what was done, was done precisely in that period. You said it was a little late with this report, so it's not very little, somewhere around 2, 3% of people died of a total number on all our islands from 01.01.2011 until today so they don't have a chance to hear this poor debate. You also pointed out that the Island Law was good, with which we all agree and that it had given it its own, you would say over all these 15 years that much was done on the basis of the Island Law, that it should be changed in some way, modified, you even set an example with which I agree with one model to make it look like it, but you also warned of the greatest danger, which is the danger to the islanders, the reduction of the subsidies in maritime transport. Anyone who lives on the island knows that the traffic connection is one of the largest and most basic conditions for life on the island, and we really must not be allowed to go into that experiment to reduce subsidies because it breaks over no Jadrolini, not the other 12 boaters, but it breaks over the island's inhabitants, and that will be less lines, or less frequencies, less lines on certain tracks and life will make it harder for the islanders, and I would like you to say something more about EIB 3 because you have experience in it and to tell me, here's just a last sentence, to tell me what happened to EIB 3, how much interest, how much return is it, which is... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70571	Time. He wasn't speaking for the government's assistant, he was speaking for the deputy minister. Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70572	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerolimov, you are the captain and you know best what you have done in the past years until 2011 and what has hit you these last two years. I warn, the HDZ club will support this report, I forgot to say that because this is a set of certain figures, they are what they are, and we're just asking that the final policy tells us that we have reached a certain level, shows the indexes that we have started stagnating or that we are falling into investments and that there are no more investment on the islands, that we are going through the agency, through certain shipowners' behaviours, canceling frequencies of certain lines, frequencies because it is saving, happening now in winter time, often, never recorded giving up lines due to unfavourable weather opportunities. The institute has been abused, and whoever can testify to it, I can because I recently came to a catamaran that goes to Rijeka and a man from one attempt at no south gives up entering the port and leaves 80 people on the waterfront. It's the agency's job to control, and in order to calm it down somehow, Jadrolini says three days of catamaran malfunctioning because it's a shame, the inability of a certain captain to agree to some small south in some port. And that's where the standards started to be abused, because it's not a job of Jadrolinia, and the state has to ensure that it can function normally. If all the lines are concentrated, then 320 million is enough, but if that part goes down, then someone's gonna get hurt. They'll either be isolated, or they'll pay a more expensive ticket, or they'll lose a certain frequency of lines. There's no third solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70573	Thank you. The remaining two replicas, Marijana Skvarić and Tomislav Klaric, will be heard at 15.00 hours. I'm setting a break now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70574	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. I see there are replicators and colleagues, Boric. The next replica is Marijan Skvaric. Here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70575	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with a statement you said in the debate, which is that we really need a new organization, a systematization and a review of the new Island Act. But this should first and foremost be done in a way to correct the injustice within the island's territory and also the injustice with other areas of Croatia, it should indeed be just. Let me just say that we should and to what extent should we help those areas in the islands that we heard today in the debate have a development index of over 100%. Do they need help and how do they need help? We really need to see one fair distribution and in what way but not only because of the island but also because of other areas of Croatia which may have much weaker development, and which do not have the possibility of such support as they are now shown in this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70576	Thank you, too. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70577	Thank you very much. I accept what you said because islands are assisted areas such as one part of the Gorski Kotar and some local self-government that fell under the mountain-mounted area and all in the PPDS. That's why I said in my debate, let's make a new island law. There's really been a few years here, not only in the last two, but there are provisions that simply don't work. But the islands were not only the foundations of the Island Act that made investments, more they were making investments based on other programmes and more contributed to one loan of CEB 4 or this EIB 3 that was abolished, but it was the law itself that gave it to the islands. He has given them certain rights that many local governments on land can truly dream of. You can drive on islands for free, one big category of people. You can if you don't have a fixed water line you have a subsidized water price, you can get support as a businessman, you have a free bridge, you have some things that this law has made possible. And that was one thought-out policy, and that life kind of stabilized in the islands, we see by the number and population growth that it became and motivated for the islands. But now we've reached one level when we have to determine as far away as possible. It's not a good strategy to break the laws on mountain-mounted areas, let's adapt it. If a Matulja municipality has, for example, come out with its revenues above the criteria that allowed them to be part of this law, let's rationalize it, let's leave the Gorski Kotar to be but we don't need to abolish it as well as the PPDS Act. This is not a burden to this country that it cannot bear, nor can these loans that are being abolished because if in 20 years we cannot pay back a million euros a year, then the question is what can we even talk about assisted areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70578	Thank you. Next replica Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70579	Well, here's my colleague, Boric, you, like every time, have interesting discussions with a lot of data. You mentioned Croatia has 718 islands, 389 rocks, 78 reefs totaling 1185 of which 67 permanently and 15 occasionally seasonally populated. And now we're talking about an island development strategy, you mentioned the EIB and the EIB funds. I remember well because these funds were intended for both islands and local self-government in the coast. How many shores, how many rivals, how many social facilities with these resources in our area made. Is it possible that someone in this difficult financial situation had the strength to give up this kind of funding where they had to secure 2% interest, 5 years grace period and 20 years of payment, and we know that these funds were strictly intended for development and island and coast. And now at this point when you mention the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, aware of the situation that took place these days in the Gorski Kotar, as well as the fact that the population and the island and also the Gorski Kotar that someone is abolishing the Law that brings income to the units of local self-government and at this very time of crisis that they are all burdened with some kind of credit or obligations to produce and prepare project documentation and the state in its budget with the basis of the abolition of that law gets really minor funds. And if we know how much profits companies owned by the Croatian Waters, Croatian Forests in that and such Gorski kotar have, as well as in the development of tourism across the island and coasts in this part of the region, which refers to this particular increase that you mentioned the number of passengers transported in ferry lines since 2004 it is an increase of more than 30%, abolishing and giving up on these funds that we must agree that it is really pointless.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70580	Time. Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70581	Thank you very much. I'm going to fix my colleague Klaric a little bit, we have 1244 islands, 67 inhabited by 50 all the time. It is a small part of the Republic of Croatia's 5% area of 3% of the population but the policy of consensus in this House from '99 to this day has enabled this area to develop, and so I welcomed the ministries to leave the Law on the Islands, but we wanted to open the debate to see in the conversation with the executive authorities as well as further. Because I have to admit that some things surprise us as well as this EIB 3 loan story because we watch what happens in other areas and we easily go beyond that it's not a problem 3 billion 200 in health, but we have a problem of 25 million euros that needs to be returned in 20 years. And this is an ideal opportunity for us to bridge what the deputy was talking about today, and we talked about the funds, one period that will last for a year or two days, and that these islands try to find their opportunity, and also the possibility of co-financing from these funds, if they already don't have enough financial capacity because that loan allows and we specifically asked the bank to enable us to do so. And I continue to argue, there are no better funds on the market today than the loan, and it is not correct then in the islands to prevent them from achieving the opportunity to withdraw even more funds from the EU funds for projects that they have prepared, and they certainly have over a billion kunas of various infrastructures from social to communal. Well, the port is also allowed to finance, and it was meant to finance part of the port infrastructure through the Ministry of the Sea, but I'll talk more about it in my individual debate because this story we have to clear up here today that the island commissioners, the mayors know what's waiting for them in the next few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70582	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of HNS Representatives' Club Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70583	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Minister with associate Mr. Chulin. On behalf of the HNS Club, we should say some things about these reports and the overall policy in the Republic of Croatia regarding relations with islands and islanders. Croatian islands are an area of life from antiquity, which is known very well, perhaps even before today. In those times, different phases passed, from when they were actually the centers of prosperity and cradles of culture of civilization progress to the period when due to their specificity, which is the isolation from land, lagging behind economic, social, recorded and recorded negative population trends, the increase of the oldest population in the total population, up to the time in the last 10-12 years in which it can be said that since the adoption of the Law on Islands in 1999, which had experienced several novels and taught that of the National Programme on Islands, the overall Croatian policy had one of the most correct policies in continuity, which was precisely the relationship to islands and islanders. Through all the programmes and measures prescribed by the national programme, through all those provisions and content components of the island law itself, islands were heavily accounted for in terms of opportunities and invested in terms of financial opportunities, and this was justified. Justifiably, the islands are a truly great opportunity for Croatia because, I stress once again, because of their isolation and their specific position, they remain ecologically at the highest level. Other bearers of tradition and culture, which were lost irrevocably by some parts of Croatia, by urban centres. For these reasons, the criteria laid down in the island law itself and on which the law is based, the basic guidelines of the national programme are fully well laid down, and they are based on the fact that islands should be managed with special care and respected as the natural wealth of the Republic of Croatia, and properties on islands as particularly valuable historical, economic values, goods of general interest. When these two reports and the data that are very detailed are also looked at, this continuity is seen, the total amount that was placed in 2011, either through direct contributions for project co-financing programmes or funding projects from the state budget, together with the placement of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which has a specific sensitivity for island programmes. It's a billion-dollar figure and 423 million kuna. In 2012, given the rise of HBOR placements in the Adriatic islands, this figure grows to a billion and 770 million kunas around. It is therefore evident that regardless of the financial difficulties Croatia faces, the monitoring of those elemental components of the National Programme for Islands Support is not questionable. There has been a rationalisation of some types of support, and this primarily refers to rationalisation or correction of navigation order and frequencies of departure and departure to the islands, but the fact is that when you look at the results that the decline in traffic has not been as pronounced as it has been in the last few years, there has been a reduction in funds for that purpose. The main investors, i.e. the main ministries supporting, of course, are by nature the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links, the Ministry of Regional Development, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture through various types of support in agriculture and fisheries, the Ministry of Culture, and there are, of course, the largest state-owned companies of Croatian Water, Croatian Roads and HEP, noting that because of that fundamental imperative that is embedded in the island policy, which is to preserve the environment. We in HNS hold that of all state-owned companies the biggest task in the coming years will have Croatia's water in solving and supporting and realising projects of disposal and water supply because if there is an increase in tourist arrival and population growth, however shyly shown through reports from the National Statistics Office. In that case, if we really want to preserve the ecosystems of the Adriatic islands, we will have to be extremely careful and take care of this type of project. When looking at this report, it is seen that all ministries, of course, as in all other parts of Croatia, give more or more of their own... in implementing such a policy to respect and the fact that the age, or age structure of the population on the islands, is being implemented, as counterpart Ivcevic noticed this morning and some special programs that keep the elderly population dominant, that they should be taken care of. In particular, it is to praise economic support programmes such as the "Croatian island product" project and could list a whole series of efforts that the state is making to reduce this handicap of isolation and separation from land, subsidisation and travel tickets, subsidisation for the reconstruction and construction of a fleet of shipowners, which, in particular, maintains lines, subsidisation of fuel prices for commercial vessels. A whole series, I stress, of programs and projects that go to make the islands more attractive and turn the trend into islands. A difficult economic situation on land, the island's attractiveness, especially in tourism, may pave the way. This morning, in the debate, of course in the best of intentions, I estimate both we at the HNS and certain criticisms, here is my colleague, Boris, who mentioned whether to go to the end of the European Investment Bank programme, Mr Deputy argued something that I think makes sense, which is that future development projects need to be based on the withdrawal of European funds, not on borrowing given the general situation of the RH's responsibilities. It is difficult to be arbitral in these different approaches to solving the island's problem, but there is one great truth. The development index did not fall from the sky and he thank God became the result of the increasing attractiveness of the island and the great investment that has been given to the islands in the last 15 years. I remember the islands of my childhood, the two shipping lines, and sometimes one, a factory that didn't have a freezer, so if you caught a heart attack in Milna, then the whole place would smell like a heart, one island shop, one old infirmary, one general peace, bad roads between Supetar and Milna, today the situation on all Croatian islands is very different than it was then. That's the result, I'm stressing good policies. However, when we criticise any rationalisation or reduction of funds today, and it is given in some, only in some of the items in this report is we see, then we need ladies and gentlemen to have criteria. You should sit in the car and spend a little more detail through the continental part of Croatia, see how and how and in which standard people live in regions like Lika or like Slavonia, such as Baranja. People living in areas that used to be the synonym of wealth, and today they are fighting a battle for naked survival and are more insulated and more disabled than Croatian islands. It is not easy today to maintain investments at the existing level, to maintain any kind of subsidy, both for the islands and the economy sector, in the agriculture sector at the level that has been so far if we are aware of the real state of the Croatian economy, the real gauges of the crisis and the real problems that the ministries have in order to fulfil their tasks in the financial frameworks set and we need to be objective. The 2012 report testifies that regardless of the difficulties in which this government is located, but we put the government aside, where real Croatian society is real, this government has nevertheless kept its sensitivity and special attention to the island at an enviable level and should be objective. If in any business form of support and protection of life and standards this government has given in drastically, then it would likely understand some of the criticisms that have been given today by looking at figures, the fact that real placement, the total placement of funds is higher by 250 million kuna compared to 2011 and 2012, I think ladies and gentlemen that in the Croatian Parliament this report should be obtained. And given the result of the report, and also the quality and detailed presentation, it is necessary to obtain a passing assessment, with another note that the relationship with the islands and the implementation of the Island Act is not only manifested by financial placements, but rather by the detailed implementation of all provisions laid down in the Island Act and the care of all island institutions, the problems that the islanders face, and this relates to the implementation and future implementation of health policies, social policies, the creation of an investment climate, but to certain things that may seem trivial to you. Here's an example I'm going to give, the problems that the islanders of the North Adriatic Islands are torturing with the alachton species of savages that are there, legally there shouldn't be, and no one has been more serious about solving this problem all these years. The islanders have big problems, they suffer huge damages, it's not a big investment, but it's a matter of good faith, so this time on behalf of the HNS club, noting that the HNS club will support future policies towards islands, noting that we expect all of us to have more criteria and to turn around and not only through the island's prism to look at and the problems that other regions in Croatia have. We will support this report, and we will ask the authorities to take care of the problem of alochton savages on islands where there is no place. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70584	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas, Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70585	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Baranovic, I agree with you that under the conditions under which the state budget is then neither the island budget should be shared in fate and not all in numbers. Life isn't about numbers or just numbers. Therefore, in that part, I am through these, through several replicas and said by my colleague, Boric, on behalf of the club, that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the Report. I resented the ministry that the administration, former administration or now the sector did not know what it was called the organisational form was not working enough to monitor the legislation that was adopted in Croatia and which applied to the islands. And if we were so awake, perhaps without money, we could help the islanders, make their lives easier. Well, you know very well, you come from that sector that we have passed the Marine Fisheries Act, that according to that Marine Fisheries Act, more small fishing is prohibited from 1 January next year, and that somewhere around 13,000 of them, which are islanders, Dalmatians, Istria is bound by small fishing and that practically this law, this Marine Fisheries Act may be only 1000 or a half of them in future being able to deal with small island coastal fishing. I believe that through everything at EU level it is possible to respect the specificities of the island because it is not only Croatian islands in such a position that it could be possible to make it possible through exceptions, through a way to allow it to continue, primarily, to the islanders who are associated with small fishing, whose life means, which are traditionally tied together, a family bond In addition to this activity, it could be possible to enable them. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] In that part, when we had no money, we could have helped the islanders.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70586	Thank you. Answer, colleague Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70587	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bačić, nice to meet you. We have been getting along very well for ten, twelve years in principle, and we work well together regardless of party differences, and we have some general views very similar or almost identical. But I have to correct you here you're not quite right. When you updated this question, it is indeed very important for life on the islands, and the negotiators in Chapter 13 had that in mind when the European Community was asked to completely abolish that category. It was negotiated precisely with an argument concerning the islands that the number was reduced, i.e. that this type of fishing was denied to those to whom it did not belong. And it will be possible to deal with additional fishing for people over 60 years of age who have received less than, I think, about 1700 kuna, 1660 kuna, which is the majority of the particular population on the islands that needs to continue fishing. It was not easy to achieve, because additional fishing is specific. It is a specificity that is unknown to European fishing countries, but we have succeeded, however, people who have concluded this chapter at least in that part to negotiate this possibility. Otherwise, you know very well that through a number of laws, and not only through this island law, especially expressed sensitivity to islands, for example through the Agricultural Support Act, fishing because in that part of fishing, there is one amount of support per kilogram of processed fish, per sketula in the fish cans factory, per kilogram of farmed fish. Therefore, there are special benefits embedded in laws for the same economic operators compared to land. So, in a whole series of laws, in the legislative opus of the Republic of Croatia in each variant where this was considered necessary, the special status of the island is preserved and it is a good policy. I stress, we are in HNS for such an approach in the domain of real and healthy criteria to continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70588	Thank you. Josip Boric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70589	Well, colleague Baranovic, I'll look back on this part of yours. The development index should sit down and drive by car. It was precisely the quality of this law that we sent him away for 14 years to date, and now we're arguing two years back, because every year we knew what was going on. The specificity of these other two laws of the hill-mounted mountain-mounted and PPDS which we have never received feedback from what is happening in these areas. No provision has been incorporated to report on these areas as well. If it was said or written somewhere, we'd know what was going on there. But I am responsibly saying that the mountain-mounted areas have taken much less from the state budget because there are far fewer local self-governments inside and have failed to impose themselves as areas that they had to worry about in the course of various policies. If they were to add up everything that had been invested on PPDS, that amount would be at least triple the amount that was put together on the islands. It's just that it's never been united in one place. 150,000 only housing units destroyed in the war. Hundreds of facilities of different detachment systems, roads of unclassified and such, schools, homes of health etc. All of this has in some ways made it possible for life to return to those areas. Now we're warning and please don't stop it. It's not a burden and it can't be a burden. That's why they're called assisted areas and the state has to take care of them. The moment the state is abolished, they will no longer be cared for. And what does the development index mean? Out of the 9 local self-government in the Gorski Kotar, one is even in the PPDS of those 9. None of these local self-governments fall within the category of financing. They're all developed. When they were struck by this disaster, we realized all the possibilities of these local self-government. I think this was God's hand that showed what you should do with those areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70590	Next replica Kresimir Bubalo. Here's an answer, excuse me, please. I didn't notice a colleague of Baranovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70591	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Boric, you said you had no feedback and no idea what ended up with those funds. It is not a very good message that you do not know where and how the funds are being allocated under any programme, any end of Croatia and come from the Republic of Croatia's budget and are paid by taxpayers. What I wanted to warn you about in my presentation is that when we discuss islands to be realistic and to combine today's standard on islands with a real standard on some isolated corners of continental Croatia, which, by gaining these or those circumstances, are undermining policies that are in an impossible position. It should therefore be appreciated in this context that the continuity of investment and attention in the islands continues. It continues, it is evident from these reports because in this country today they become large areas of the entire county and regions that are truly in a much worse position than they are Rab, Brac, Hvar or any of the other Adriatic islands. For this reason, I believe that we should as a society have criteria and this report, the figures expressed in it, the fact that we have remained at the level of investment related to the islands in this crisis at the same level should be absolutely commended and supported both by the content and quality of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70592	Thank you, too. Cresimir Bubalo Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70593	Dear colleague Baranovic, you said in your debate that Slavonia and Baranja were synonyms of wealth, indeed that was the case. But you also said in your discussion that the development index did not fall from the sky and indeed did not. When it comes to Slavonia and Baranja, then it is the systematic neglect of Slavonia and Baranja but if there were criteria, that there was all this analysis, that there were studies, strategies and that we had a fund of balance of funds then it would not have happened in Slavonia and Baranja. I will remind you of the statement by our archbishop Srakic who often said Croatia went a little left, a little right and Slavonia and Baranja always to the same old place. So when we look at this report on the effects of implementing the 2011 Law on Islands, I would like to discuss next year a report on the effects of implementing the Law on the region of Slavonia and Baranja. Then things would probably change.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70594	My colleague Baranovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70595	Dear fellow, I think that a special law on continental regions is hardly going to be passed in this House, it is my personal political assessment but I agree with you and we emphasized in our report on behalf of the Club that in Croatia and other regions have the need to support more responsible, quality policies and all policies that directly and indirectly concern like Lika and some parts of Zagorje, some parts of the Dalmatian hinterland, and also Slavonia and Baranja. I agree with you that the future of all parts of Croatia should have the same meter and one carding and run equally responsible accounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70596	Thank you. Here you go, Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70597	Well, here's my colleague Baranovic, I should thank you for your debate, since you've lived a little off the island and moved to the mainland and mentioned other areas that are in a much worse situation than the islands. And what matters is what you emphasized continuity. You mentioned it to me 99. Well, from then on to here, the situation has changed deeply compared to what it was before. But you also mentioned Gorski Kotar. I wish this was the kind of debate that happened when there was a debate here in the House about the status of the mountainous and mountainous area and that law and the abolition of these rights. The savings in the state budget of about 100 million kuna and in this situation where Gorski Kotar is now without the hundreds of million kuna units of local self-government in Gorski Kotar were brought to the brink without them, and we see what kind of situation they are in. The fact is that cities, municipalities, settlements in Gorski Kotar die, die, no matter the traffic connection, and I think at this point it's one of the big problems. What is the islands of the sea, which is Slavonia's country is the Gorski Kotar forest and I don't know, and I haven't heard any announcements from the Ministry in which these hundreds of millions of kunas will be able to finance the preparation of projects in order to extract any funds from the units of local self-government. And we lightly gave up what Boris mentioned and accepted, and in the end we all explained to the ministry that these funds were not so necessary that it was better to attract those grants. I think the problems are much wider and we support anyone who is for this status of Croatian islands and to potentiate investments in them. But in any case, Gorski Kotar is at this point in time in the worst situation, and if he continues to be threatened by depopularization, it's total.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70598	Time, Comrade Baranovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70599	I agree with you colleagues because Gorski Kotar is at this point in the worst situation and in the worst situation among other things and because of what happened, which nature was cruel a few days ago. But let us not lie, Gorski Kotar has been dying for decades because of the poor overall policies in the Republic of Croatia, because of the insufficient valorisation of these resources that Gorski Kotar has real and on which its economy should be based, and these are forest treasures and those 100 million kunas that could be placed can help but will not solve the entire problem of Gorski Kotar. Croatia should generally change its policies and the basis of those on one of the basic guidelines of European policy at the moment, and this is a balanced regional development in all areas and within the scope of the EU as a whole. The fact that so far we have not responded with real political moves to these challenges, that many regions have atrophied, is not only Gorski Kotar, and that we will not solve this only by placing money from the state budget. We will be able to do this less and less, given that the overall wrong policy in this country has led us to a beggar stick for the last 20 years. We can't give anyone away from our empty pocket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70600	Thank you, too. On behalf of the National Minority Club Danesh Spoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70601	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy and Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The report shows very clearly and understandablely how much for 2011 and 2012 the resources from which the sources and for which the purpose are spent on the islands are. There are few highlighted indicators of the effects of these investments, although this is the title of the material effects. I appreciate the need to look at the state or level of development of particularly municipal equipment between islands or settlements on the island or municipalities and municipalities on different islands. Because you get the impression when you show what the situation on the islands is about development then you show some path where that donkey walks and then it should symbolize development, and then obviously the situation isn't because there are well developed environments and we have certainly undeveloped ones. Looking at these indicators, just before it was said and colleagues Baranovic spoke very nicely and later Bubalo asked a question about the situation, is now that we look at the development of these municipalities on the islands then the situation is next, I just looked at a few of these municipalities. Hvar, Losinj, Novalja, Krk, Omisalj, Malinska they are more than 20% above those synthetic indicators of the average development of the Republic of Croatia, 20% above that. At the same time, the Baranja municipalities are between 45% and 65% including the town of Beli Manastir, and best illustrates the state of development of the city of Osijek, which is the only 2% above the republican average. Then you can imagine where the other Slavonian cities and municipalities are. The comparison of these indicators clearly speaks of the whole situation and you simply come into a situation if you go over summer to some developed environment down to the coast in Dalmatia or even lower, in developed environments then man as chief gets some sort of complex of inability, when it will achieve what there are various levels of equipment, communal etc. Total investment from a billion and a half to a billion to a billion, I remember the data from earlier years even surpassing a billion 700, and that cca 80% is irrevocable for each is commendable. It would probably be a happy circumstance if we could do more. However, if you look at it in detail, and it is really transparently shown every item in this material almost every drop of 2,3 000 to ten million then you can really see that there is a very, very different set of different investments, of course the most going from the Ministry of Regional Development, Maritime and Liaison, Agriculture, Culture, Tourism, Croatian Roads, Croatian Waters, etc. These are significant funds. And indeed when you look at all these items somewhere not even indicated, we have indicated such an amount for that and that institution even d.o.o. or d.d. etc. But it doesn't say if it's investments, whether it's regular maintenance. I have to tell you that when the tourist season comes this honest when we want to make some event more significant, and you know that without 40, 50 thousand more, no singer will come who has a name to participate in the program, and down in those small towns and municipalities when you open over the tourist season TV almost every night has some sort of event. And now that that's looked at, and all those funds are certainly there for a lot of different purposes. Where funds go and all these events are financed in part from both funds and funds through the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Tourism and others. I don't want to be mean anymore, but really when you look at the details of all that data then you see that there's, say, an item, I really don't mind if I'm standing up for the financing of sports all the time. Let's say at Visa 300 thousand kuna for the football field, it doesn't say what it's all about, the parish office Rab 900 thousand, the New Year's Eve under the sea, and that's some program, making dresses out of stone, etc. Not to mention, there's a lot of these things that are hard to assume right now what's going on. What surprises me a little bit in all of this Croatian Post Offices have invested nearly a million and a half kunas in buildings and the number of 15, 20 seats, whether they are municipal centres or some villages, and we know that every other post office closes with us. I don't know what logic that is, which is where the network is expanding in this area. Therefore, it is obvious that these things should be set a little differently, to make one graduation of the development of all these settlements, and to see where the municipalities and settlements are located. I find it very acceptable and interesting to finally find this lock that was written, but it's also in modified form for '12. Year, here for '11. A year. I'll read everything here in the conclusion that we've even discussed here. By insisting on island sustainable development through the financing of numerous measures, many islands have led to a level of development above the average of the gross domestic product of the Republic of Croatia. They are located in a far better position than most of the continental population of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of traffic isolation. The review analysis of the island-developed policy measures since its installation in 1995 shows that investments in municipal and social infrastructure and other sectors on the islands have had a positive impact on the development of the island. The fact that islands are above the national average at a level of development, but still life on islands is perceived as highly sustainable, suggests the need to formulate new measures that will have a development goal, which the current state is already engaged in. So maybe we should get the answer at the end and what's this all about, what's this all about together? And now, in the end, if you'll just let me have two words, I still have that much. This was about some law for Slavonia and Baranja and that somehow it really turned from budget to all other institutions towards the east, according to Eastern Slavonia and Baranja, I am not some great optimist, and all this information I did not speak for representatives in the ruling coalition or representatives in the opposition benches, but mostly I stress it because of representatives from Slavonia because there are no representatives from Baranja. Unfortunately, this electoral system will probably not even allow Baranja to be presented here for much longer, and while these MPs, regardless of which political option they are in, are very, very disciplined on the party line, and not to look at the interest of this area of eastern Croatia, regardless of which option, I am afraid that in 5 years, indicators may be even more tragic for our areas, especially for Baranja, I could talk about it for a long, long time, but I really don't want to bother you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70602	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Hope Turina-Djuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70603	Well, fellow Shoja, here's kind of after all these discussions that, I admit, tried to be objective, but still in one good part as a person living in the area of a coastal county where we have three big islands, I would not agree with my colleagues right now. We must not forget the situation on the islands about 20 years ago where we had, not only a large exodus of the population of eviction from the island, but also a general economic situation at the level that you couldn't hire anyone and nowhere in any activity. There was a war as you know, tourism fell and everything else that happened in the early '90s, and I think it was absolutely justified in continuity to implement one of these laws. Of course, now is probably the time to talk about how after we've strengthened the islands, we've significantly strengthened it, and that's what all the indicators are saying, in which way we continue to encourage the development of the island, but of course these funds that are possibly higher than they should be distributed to other areas at this point. I responsibly claim here that every kuna that has gone to the islands, at least as far as this part where I live, is very well spent and has come back multiple times, not only to the islands and islands, but to the entire Republic of Croatia, because it is in most parts just placed in one perhaps the only pro-pulsive branch in our economy, which is tourism. And we must never forget that. But we need to know that on these islands, some of our islands, hundreds of thousands of people in 2 months are present daily, that the hundreds of thousands of people needed to build infrastructure and that this infrastructure was not built because of the islanders, but that it was mainly built because of the work that people are dealing with there. That's why I didn't answer for the discussion, but I think this general hack in the direction that we've given too much and that we're giving too much going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70604	Thank you. My colleague Shaw, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70605	Dear colleagues, I have neither said nor now disputed any investment, on the contrary, but there are certain items from the reasoning contained in the material itself where it is not clear to the end what it is, and especially not what the effects are achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70606	Thank you. Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70607	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, you know, when you say so little, I don't want to be mean, but, well, it's been given to some terrain, it's been given to certain dresses, and so, then it all seems to be investing one money in a way that can be much better, more quality invested somewhere else in the development of the economy, sustainable development, etc. But we need to understand at all, again, of course I have to repeat certain things about the Law on the Islands, about the consensus that we have at all about this development and investment in the islands because the very word isolation, what counterpart Nada just said, and that one that we had the exodus and the specificity of the way of life of the island that in the season are overcrowded, seasonal mode of working essentially in the economy or tourism on the islands, isolating traffic. Here's today some catamarans, the ferry don't drive. Demographic structure is something to invest in sustainable development. The very fact you said has a positive effect on the development of the island, and islands have well developed and GDP some above the average of the Republic of Croatia. These are the elements to just say that this was successfully done, regardless of who was in power, but that doesn't mean that it should stop because this very demographic structure. When looking at the working-active population, the seasonal way in which this economy and islands live, and in winter they still died in a certain way, suggests that little cynicism is not good at sending a message from the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70608	Thank you. Answer, colleague Shaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70609	I'm willing to apologize if I'm misunderstood, but it's not any cynicism, it's simply to cut short, not talk much, it's not me, or us that there's something more to it than it's wrong that we don't have.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70610	Thank you. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70611	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Puliz with his assistant. I'd tell Shaw where I left off. I'll extend with names that are also in some sense I'd say islands. Babina Greda, Drenovci, Drenje, Gornji Bogičevci, Gradina, Gunja, Jagodnjak, Lenjavska varoš, Markusica, Mikleush, Okucani, Podgorac, Podravska Moslavina, Sopia, Šodolovci, Trnava, Trpinja, Voćinj and Vrbje. These are 22 municipalities of 35 of the total number of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, which have a development index of less than 50% of the average of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Puljiz said nicely in the end, the conclusion of his speech that the result, one of the results of the Law on Islands and the implementation of the Law on Islands, is an increase in the number of inhabitants on the islands from 113 to 127 thousand, is that so Mr. Puljiz and that a large number of municipalities entered with their index of development in that category to say good and very good with a development index greater than 100% compared to the average of the Republic of Croatia. What I have read are islands in the Republic of Croatia, so 35 of these islands 22 or 63% are from Slavonia. These are the names of these islands of underdevelopment in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. 22 out of 35 in the forest, in sum throughout Croatia or 63%. Why am I saying that? I'm saying it's because my colleague Shoja, a parliamentary representative, has brought some things out here that no one has the right to be angry about. You can give the replicas, you can do whatever you want, but the fact that Mr. Pugliz brought up, as well as the speakers in the Assembly, mostly these daggers, let me say the islanders who took the word here, at first, are talking about a billion and a half kuna of the average annual separation of the Republic of Croatia and other funds into the islands. For 15 years, there's an island law, 15 squared or 15 times a billion and a half is 22.5 billion kuna. 22.5 billion kuna, 3 billion euros for islands, for 113 000 inhabitants, for 5.5% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia or for 3% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. I want to say right away, I have no objection to such a relationship with the islands of the Republic of Croatia for several reasons. Islands, our islands that have exactly the number of UN Security Council Resolution 1244 on Serbia's bombing, so Serbs resented that we had just thrown out so many islands. ... Come on, Boric, you'll tell me later in the replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So that's what they said, but we don't care, we have our islands which are our wealth, which are one of the specifics of this country. We have in the description of the largest Cres, we have the highest mountain, Vidovo Gora Brač, the longest Hvar, the most divorced Pag and a series of other islands, islets, horse mackerel or as they are not called in our sea. Sea, mare nostrum croaticum. And it's nice to discuss this subject today because we have nice material, because we have something to say, we have something to talk about, we have arguments and we have realisations on these islands. And it is visible when you come to the islands, when you travel along the road to Brac then you will see that it is excellent road quality, a wide road, unlike some in our Slavonia. You can see that it's really not to say one renaissance occurred, one rebirth of those islands. You can talk, and you spent up to two years ago in HDZ politics the same as the islands, this is continued. In 2012, a billion and 777 million were invested, if I remember correctly, and a year before that, 2011 billion and 405. So there was an increase even in 2012 for the islands and it's good that. I stress again, I'm very benevolent, I'm very well-intentioned, and I want the best of these islands. But I wish that such measures and such relations would be applied to those who, if they do not have such a relationship soon, will very soon be left without the inhabitants and without the municipalities and without what they are doing to Slavonia Slavonia, Baranja Baranja and Srijem Srijem today. We can continue to work, therefore, and as fellow Shoja said and football playgrounds and shell boards and rock dresses, and I don't know what all of them are, so tourist attractions, which actually attract tourists to some extent. That's clear. But there is also continental tourism, Baranja, an ideal place, Slavonia. River, religious, hunting, not all forms of continental, vineyarding, continental tourism do not exist. There are, only need to be developed, should be invested as well in the islands and you will see very quickly, regardless of the entry into the European Union and the promises of Mr Puliz that there will be an equal chance of all regions in the Republic of Croatia. You will soon see that because of this situation in Slavonia, the projects will not arrive, or very few will arrive in Slavonia, especially those based on so-called. production, from the real sector, in production activities that we will soon consider perhaps the same law on Slavonia and Baranja. As was once the solidarity fund of all developed republics, and in connection with undeveloped republics in the former Yugoslavia. So, when Croatia, Slovenia and Serbia financed Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. Shuker knows, he was counting it. So, when you look at the population list, Mr. Pugliz said that there was an increase in the number of inhabitants on the islands. Great, fantasy. Even if there were three more, if there were half a million of us on the islands, it would be good and there's room for all of them. But Slavonia lost 10% of its population in 10 years, with 880,000 we fell to 790,000. In 10 years, the five Slavonian counties lost 10,000 inhabitants. Even cities like, those that absorb sometimes labour, etc. And they fell and Osijek fell and Slavonski Brod fell by 8,000 inhabitants, Osijek for 8010 inhabitants compared to 2001. So it's not wartime, it's peacetime from 2001 to 2011. And when our cities fall, it's a sign of an alarm. Not to mention here if we're already talking about islands and what I've asked the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I don't see in the material, perhaps there is, perhaps Mr. Pugliz will tell me about the problem of the Apple or the Apple Valley. It's not that valley in Slavonia, it's not a hot boiler, it's an apple valley in which the main refrigeration of fish in the Adriatic Sea is the largest of its kind. I don't see anything about it, even though if we already have the Law on Islands, we could also be in this direction in terms of the protection of that boiler, in terms of everything that the association that seems to be doing to me in Split, a civil society advocates and what it tends to do. I found such interesting data in the material itself. Here is the fact that I am both bound and personally, given some byte that I have on the island of Vir, I see that the waterway to the island of Vir is in 2011 and in 2012 to say co-financed by Croatian waters, so it is not clear that we still have the master, because we cannot talk to h, idrant. HINA is abolished and hydrants will be removed. So, all we have are hydrants that are still, from which no water leaks, so I'm wondering maybe if Mr. Pugliz could tell me something about Vir when that water from the land that's being run across the sub-sea pipe to Vira, when finally thirsty Virana will get that water. What kind of means are these? Whoever provides the funds in connection here were Croatian Waters, but I would like to know if there will be further investments in the source water supply and draining clearly. So that's what's in Zadar County with that project that's so 22 and a half thousand kuna for designing ideas of Bujica, Docinina and Pravula on the island of Vir, but that's an item that's relatively small 22,000 kuna. Is this not so significant compared to an investment of 20 million and 425000 kuna for the water supply of the island of Vir, 20 million and 425000 kuna? But he's still, I say Vir thirsty and no water. There was that station, a pumping station across the bridge, but it continued to run weakly towards the island of Vir. What I would also like to commend, rather than waste, is also part of the income tax imposed on me, so the municipalities and cities of the islands in the form of overall assistance and the Law on Islands, and then here is counted in alphabetical order from Baška to Lopar on the island of Rab, is that so. I'm gonna fight that, right? Right? All places and amounts that are, amounts to tax exemptions on income, which is, that is, granted to cities and municipalities. So the HDSBB Club that I'm resuscitating has no reason at all to reject this report, we will accept it but, with a note that Mr Puljiz and Kukuriku coalition will have to be told not to force you, but that when you see Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja realistically and objectively in such a state that you will have to pass the Law on Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja, at least for 15 years in order to catch up and level the conditions of life in Slavonia, Srijem, Baranja with others, and even with islands, even now even with islands that have been truly disastrously abandoned which they were and today they are truly the mirror of our tourism and good that is so. And he would ask another question until when, then, what is the time limit, what are the possibilities, and how long until, when is the Island Law, is it 2021, until 2101, 2201, until when the Island Law lasts? By the time it's a billion kuna from the Croatian budget and all other funds will be allocated to the islands, that's all I'm interested in or some of these projects that Shoja was talking about are really like this I would say bizarre intentions and shapes like there's some kind of rock dress, like a shell board, etc. So that these money that is secure, sure, so the islanders don't have to worry about whether these money comes or won't, they're legally prescribed and they get to our islands neatly. How do you spend it? That's another thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70612	Thank you, too. Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70613	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, this was one special debate in style and everything on the islands and what we did in Slavonia. We're already here today, you weren't here, we were already saying that. Let the PPDS Act unite all data and let us be informed of this Parliament so that we know exactly how much has been invested and in these areas, here we should not go to 2001 but be made for last year. You might be surprised. As far as your remarks are concerned, it's a lot, and it's not given to Slavonia. Well, I think there's only one cost and it's a subsidisation of maritime transport, so by car, someone from the island would get where you're already standing on land, the annual state is giving out 400 million kuna on average. So that's the cost you don't have. Just to show up there and have the opportunity to participate in events that are on land and it should sometimes be understood. And lastly, just one specificity in the form of a question, do you know which party in the Croatian islands is not voted for? Thank you very much. [[Upadica Grubišić: HDSSB]] [[Intruder: Correct response.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70614	The answer of my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70615	You fellow Boric are very wrong. If there were, however, a form of organisation of the HDSSB then you would certainly have lost the elections on the islands and thus lost the elections on the islands and from the very ones you do not want to give enough for the islands, and the facts speak quite differently, rather than what you are provocatively trying to impute the Croatian public and parliamentary representatives here. In fact, here we see the list of vignettes for each county as many vignettes. Look, when a farmer from Drenovac, it is Cvelferija if you even know what Cvelferija is, so Strošinci, Vrbanja, Drenovci, Đurići, Posavski rat comes from there, the general danger is whether those who had the most general dangers in Croatia, the longest general danger and air and heat, so when he drives his sterns to the market in Rijeka, then he must pay for the full highway to Rijeka and you with the vignettes and with the ferrys go as you wish. Why Croatian highways do not introduce vignettes for farmers and agricultural producers from Slavonia and Baranja, it does not occur to anyone or to your government or to this government. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70616	Thank you. Marian Skvaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70617	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I agree with one thing and I would like to join in that part that, when the debate went on, what is the socio-ecological status of the island, we went to Slavonia and Baranja, then we would ask them where is it and where is north of Croatia. And we must put all of this at the level of one piece of argument and justice distribution. And that can define what we talked about what you said to see what indexation is and in my view even indexation is not what's the best thing, indexation is probed from higher criteria that are defined, so now we don't but let's watch what income per capita is on the annual level. Then we could really define whether any subsidies are needed, yes, absolutely what levels there are well mentioned but let's see which other support are, above all, capital investment support, whether it's just, justly, if some municipality or city has income per capita of more than 11,000 kunas, that's twice as much as the average of Croatia and it can be made free of charge by kindergarten, schools and other infrastructures unlike someone north of Croatia where our average is about a thousand to 500 kuna per capita, so we have problems how we will finance it ourselves and how. So, we agree with subsidies, we agree with support but sometimes it has the power of arguments to be that justice both on islands and on Slavonia and in northern Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70618	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70619	Do not try to fix the picture I was talking about. What is relevant in the development index etc. or if we take any of that economic parameters which is the main it is the fiscal capacity of the county, the fiscal capacity of the Brod-Posavina County is 1700 kuna. See what is the fiscal capacity of Zadar County, about 7,000 thousand kuna, fiscal capacity, Vukovar-Srijem County 1900 kuna, Virovitičko-Podravska 2200 and Požeško Slavonskega about 2000 kuna. No coastal county has anywhere near that weak fiscal capacity. And that's the measure of that talking about the money that came into that county and into all the municipalities of that county and then it's very easy to tell about development and underdevelopment. So it's all clear. Well, we're not afraid of Boric, and then he laughs like that behind his back because there's a billion and a half kuna will come 20. Part of his Rab, but should know and know as his president, former and favorite Sanader, is not Croatia as strong as Zagreb, but as strong as its edge parts are. And the edge part is Slavonia anyway, but unfortunately he just said it, and he didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70620	Thank you. Dear Boric, please choose the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70621	Mr. Vice President, I think Article 238. I mean, he insulted his colleague out of nothing but peace, that I laughed so hard. What am I laughing at? He's pouring data out of his sleeve, and I have no idea what he's saying, and it's worth a warning, so he can't talk to his colleagues like that. I don't think it's correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70622	I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. This is a political pay phone, if a colleague, Grubisic, has made some incorrect information, you can in some way remind him that he is incorrect, and I believe there has been no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Now, my colleague Grubisic may have had a little more emotional discussion about a matter, but I believe you will later resolve it. Next replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70623	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. You've opened up a few topics for me unnecessary, and that's what you're thinking regionally, and you're saying national, let's say it like that. And these some further replicas go and your discussion in terms of what you need on the islands, you're fine, you're great, and then you say you should give some more water to the Vir who has everything illegal and now it's legalized, but don't forget Slavonia because she's basically poor. And now if we were to compare these billions and a half, a billion of them going to the islands that have shown very effectively that money is being spent, and how much money has gone to Slavonia and Baranja all these years and without this PPDS in which way and how effectively it has been spent and then we're opening up some other topics. Therefore, what was agreed by counterpart Baranovic from the HNS club and most of the opposition and the position that this is a good and effective law, one of the probably better ones being implemented at all in the Republic of Croatia, that there is a need for even development and that this efficiency is extremely important to do in all the environments that need to be done, including, of course, Slavonia and Baranja, and that control of the money that has been invested so far, and the way that further investment is obviously being invested was obviously a problem there, too, because this efficiency was not in Slavonia and Baranja as it was on the islands with much less money than it was given to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70624	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70625	Col. Gjurkovic, you've hit the HDSSB's general policy excellently, we're thinking nationalally we're acting regionally. That's what you said in the first sentence, that's what the fact is, and I congratulate you on how well you've exposed us. Furthermore, statistics, and mainly the mentioned fiscal capacity, 5 Slavonian counties, little bounces Osijek-Baranja and these others are a disaster. So by the head of the population watch Brod-Posavina County 1700 kuna, I tell you Zadar, and even Lika-Senjska has more fiscal capacity than Brod-Posavina County. Once upon a time, this Lika-Senian County, until it passed the highway, was in the seal. Today Lika-Senjska has twice as much fiscal capacity means money is coming to this character. If you understand I'm telling you, the best measure is that fiscal capacity per capita. It's the best standard and the most valuable. And don't talk to me about legalization, and don't talk to me about legalization. When we proposed here an emergency law on the legalisation of agricultural facilities in order to be able to run for EU funds, the HDZ refused such a thing, and you imposed that for one farm of 300 squares a man must pay 200 thousand kuna for your legalisation. And then how are we going to legalise agricultural facilities than you're going to import food as well as so far as it has imported HDZ, that's your goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70626	Tonka Ivčević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70627	From your presentation of colleagues, you would get the impression that you believe that the islands are investing much more than they should, and I must tell you that islands through their activities, through tourism, agriculture and fisheries, give much more to the state budget than they do to the islands. However, I am glad that this is the case and some of these funds are also going to projects for Slavonia's development. I am also sorry that many areas in Slavonian areas are underdeveloped and hard to live in, but believe me, they are neither island or island-led policies. And as for the population spoken of by the deputy minister, unfortunately most of the Croatian islands still have a large depopulation, regardless of all these measures being implemented. The population increase may be in 4.5 major cities on larger islands such as Hvar, Supetar and Krk. All the other islands are extinct regardless of what I say about all these measures being taken. As for the Vira you mentioned here, I am telling you that you will tell the mayor or Commissioner Kapovic that there will be a lot of EU funds from the right water supply, that the largest means for this are provided to be prepared with projects and building permits, and I am sure that these funds will also be obtained. And you mentioned the highway, of course, and all the islanders like Slavons are paying for the highway. We only have vinjets for ferry transport, for transporting trucks and cars to land because it's our only way to get to land and we just have a 50% discount, and we don't have free transport. And all the food, everything that's brought to the island, all the investments that take place on the island are up to 20% more expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70628	Thank you. Thank you, colleague, we get it. Comrade Grubisic, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70629	Thank you very much. My colleague, you were just.../The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70630	My friend Boro's microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70631	So I would like to thank my colleague for her excellent rep. So you islanders have vines from sea to land, and we have no land to sea. Namely, I said if a man from Drenovac or Trošinac or Vrbanje is going to his truck to Rijeka to sell his pigs on the market, he has no discount, so he goes to the sea to sell his pigs, from land to the sea he has to pay again the highway, he has no discount as a pig manufacturer, so that he has wine like he has in Slovenia. So no discount on Slavons, no discount. Secondly, the islands I was talking about, so the islands of the Pannonian Sea also give tax, electricity consumption, HEP. So where the seat of HEP, in Zagreb, there goes the tax, so we from Slavonia give just as much of our obligations and pay as you on the islands. So we're not even here, we're equal. So I don't think Slavonia matters. And the fact that I said that I didn't think at all that I was jealous, I said yes, excellently that our islands are progressing. I wish we could double the population, if there were 500,000 of them on the islands to finally bloom, especially our islands. So I'm just talking about having Slavonia cry out for help, nothing else, and I don't want to kidnap the islands or advocate it at all, but let's turn around a little Slavonia, let's have a little farm that's abandoned.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70632	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70633	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubišić, I think that the debate was going in the wrong direction, that we are counting here as parliamentary representatives whether 1 lip is invested on an island more or less or somewhere on land or in Slavonia or Baranja and I personally rejoice when every project, every investment happens in Slavonia, as I am pleased to see it happen both in Lika and Zagorje and on my Korčula. Therefore, this is about acquiring circumstances, which is a debate on the implementation of the Island Law, and it may have been created during this morning as well as in the islands about a billion and 600-700 million kuna. That's not true. In fact, they should first remove these 650 million kunas that are credit funds that the islanders will repay, but they are fortunate to have little interest in a certain way subsidized, but this significantly increases the amount of 600-700 million kuna. And when 380 million kunas are added to that that allows us to reach land to subsidize maritime transport, you remain at 700 million kuna. It may not be small either, it may be a lot if we are to measure with the other end of Croatia, but I say it is not good. I'll stand up for it when there's a debate about Slavonia and Baranja the same way I'm talking about islands today and I'm joining in my work. I don't see any reason to create an impression here as if life on the islands is the two-month summer forest and tourist season. The islands live, you know, in the 10th, the 11th, and now that our catamaran hasn't arrived 24 times on the islands in 42 days. Thus, it is not how it is shown here that now the islands of billions and 700 million kuna have blossomed to the expense of others. It is a difficult life on islands, and the Island Law was created just at a time when the island population was a terrible depopulation, and then the Island Law was created as a way and a model of how these islanders and these islands would be helped. So there's no need for any anxiety here, and the debate should be on the trail of trying to help the islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70634	Thank you. Answer, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70635	Comrade Bacic, I don't know what's wrong with you. What you're grumbling about is what you're saying is going on, so it's not in the wrong direction at all, but we're just comparing what we're saying about the islands. You've now begun to shrink from a billion to 700 to, almost you've reached zero, that the islands have nothing from the state. So you started by reducing the values our islands thank God they get from both the state and from all these companies and ministries, etc. Come on, and you're not gonna say it, you're just saying I'm against it. No, I'm not against it, but you're telling me when we're discussing Slavonia, how we're going to argue when there's no law on Slavonia and Baranja. When will you discuss Slavonia and Baranja? When Mr. Glavas asked for 500 million kuna for Slavonia and Baranja in the budget of Eve Sanader, you put him in jail and he's in jail today. It's your work, your party, I'm not saying it's your own personal matter, it's the top of your party. What are we talking about here? When he saw Slavonia and Baranja go where she went today, so when the funds were requested, you applied the repressive apparatus and closed Branimir Glavas on who knows what charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70636	My colleague Grubisic, I would like to pray that we stick to the topic, the even regional development of the island.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70637	I'm sticking to the subject. He mentioned that the Law on Slavonia and Baranja does not exist, the Law on Islands exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70638	Let's let it go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70639	There's only that much. So you're saying that you don't live just two months on an island, that's yes. Slavonia, he who has a cow has no annual vacation, he cannot go to sea because he has to clean the cow every day, squish, timble, etc. ... And he's got nothing to do with it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Encouragement? Europe has taken care of the incentives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70640	Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70641	My colleague Grubisic, I think it is in everyone's interest that both in Slavonia and Baranja we all look forward to any project, any part of our beautiful and that you usually have quality and professional discussions, but today you have a completely missing topic. Missed the whole football game as counterpart Boric says. You've established that the islands have been redeveloped. You've listed twenty places and municipalities in Slavonia that may be really in a difficult situation, but I'll remind you and often you pay attention to Zadar and Zadar County and you name them in some ways. So I'd tell you that no resident in that place would ever trade with these islands that I'm going to count for you. And this is the island of Iž Veli, Iž Mali, Rivanja, Setrun, Rava, Premuda, Silba, Olib, Vrgada. You know why they wouldn't change? Because they don't have water, they don't have water, they don't have a doctor, they don't have an ambulance, they don't have a pharmacy, they don't have a store to buy basic needs. And you know what their index is by what Mrs. Ingrid is yelling at? You know what their index is? 120% of the average of the Republic of Croatia, because they belong under the city of Zadar. They're 15 away, some Ancons are closer than Zadar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70642	Please, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Jerolimov, please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70643	You'll give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70644	I won't extend it to you because your colleagues are disturbing you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70645	We have an understanding of Slavonia and Baranja, and we're really sorry that people are moving out, but I'm going to remind you of the fact that seven times as many islanders as there are now, seven times as many of them live abroad and that they certainly didn't leave because the islands were paradise but something else. So, So, my colleague Grubisic, please correct yourself a little bit, and you can get upset in Zagreb but get upset with Iza and get a heart attack done. [[/Intruder Batinić: Thank you. We get it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70646	Comrade Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70647	I'm not upset at all, I'm just trying to speak objectively. You, like Bacic again, are against the island again. Well, that's not true. So if you're listening to me at all or sitting on, I won't talk about anything. So if I was missing, then you shouldn't have even answered the line. What will you do when I'm missing, as you say? I'm not missing anything, I'm telling you what it is, how it is. And just tell me about this Izu because the square meter of land is 100 meters from the sea, and how much is in Slavonia? Nothing else, so tell me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70648	Thank you. Allen Prelec, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70649	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, unfortunately, I have to agree partly with Mr. Grubisic, who says we have many islands in Croatia. But we don't just have an island clear in Slavonia, we have a safe face, but very much in Zagorje and Prigorje where people seem to live on the island. But I wouldn't be now, so this doesn't turn out to be a battle between the land and these seas is not at all. We all want equal development, but we have to ask ourselves that some of the units of local self-government have invested themselves in the development and higher standard of life. I can say that, here in my community, people built themselves with self-delivery and water and roads and sewers and everything others might have gotten or helped by state or county. And we need to talk about it, and we need to think about it. No one's against the development of islands, though. We all like to come to the sea and to the islands. But we look also to develop the land as well, but also to Zagorje, which I think is very, very little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70650	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70651	Thanks a nice fellow for the help that's partial, it's not all the way. Namely, this self-indulgence is a good-looking word especially in certain political circles. I will list only the 22 islands Slavonska list the other islands, there are 13 more in all Croatia, which have a development index of up to 50% of the average of the Republic of Croatia, which is Berek, Bishop of Knin, Cetingrad, Cysta Provo, Civilians, Donji Kukuruzari near Kostanica, Dvor, Djulovac, Ervenik, Gvozd, Kištanje, Krnjak, Plaški, Vjević, Vrhovine and Zrinski Topolovac. Here are the municipalities that, with the 22 that I have already said, are below 50% of the average of the Republic of Croatia's development index. So I support here your help, a replica called so-called. And perhaps this debate, which is really only about islands and exclusive law, might have been made to say that I would not, I did not understand it that way, and thank you for helping you to think not only about islands but about the totality and development of the entire Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70652	Thank you. Tomislav Klaric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70653	Well, my colleague Grubisic, however, in your debate, despite the fact that you have spread the subject of the island, you have touched Vira, but he is not the right example because he has a bridge as well as Krk, so we can look at them a little differently than the other islands. But when you mention the water line to yours as you said byte on the Vira, probably. I believe that you did it legally, but if all those who made the facilities at Vir had paid for the municipal contribution and all what the state should probably have done over that bridge as well as on Krk was waterway. However, from your debate in this part, this investment is being spent all the time in the islands and I agree with all my colleagues who have said that there are only 2 seasons on the islands – there is summer and there are those few months and there are all those other periods when the islands are practically in a literal sense what they are. And it's unfair in this way to speak through some privileged vignettes, ferry tickets that only have to land, everything else is paid like we all do. I agree that the development of the entire Croatia in the sense in which you spoke should be balanced, that investments should be made everywhere. But in that sense, we need to work on some kind of decentralisation. What you did well in your debate pointed out and too little of us looked back on it, that's exactly the example of your depopulation. People from the island disappear, people from Slavonia disappear but people from Rijeka disappear, Rijeka lost in the last ten years in the 10% population census and that's the problem. This is a problem for Croatia, and if it is not given better attention, if we do not reroute all together, Croatia will be able to develop further with this population and this age, regardless of the islands, it was Slavonia, Lici or Gorski Kotar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70654	The answer of my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70655	For eight years, Mr. Klaric, your government has promised intellectuals who come to PDS areas, which are areas,... For eight years, you've been in power and you've promised and you've actually misinformed intellectuals to come to areas of special state care to increase numbers and intellectuals, so that these schools, homes of health, infirmarys and welfare centres can work and operate in these areas, including islands with a promise of good pay, twice as much as they do. in Zagreb and this promise has never been made. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] It's not gonna happen. It's not gonna happen. Therefore, as for the Source and Legalisation of 2005 I wrote a request for legalisation and in 2013 at St. So last year I got an answer from the Zadar County Construction Office that my application for legalization was denied. It took eight years for the Zadar County Construction Department to answer me negatively and by 1.7 was the deadline for new legalisation, for submitting applications for new legalisation, right? So you simply can't legalize the Vir, you couldn't legalize the facility, you can't, now you can, now the SDp or the Kukuriku coalition will pick up the butter when you didn't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70656	Thank you. Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70657	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic reminds me of that Bosnian proverb: "God have fun about himself". So instead of being happy and having one law that we all agree to do. And that two practically laws that had the exact same intention and intent, which is the Law on PPDS and the Law on mountain-mounted areas, have unfortunately not reached their goal. And now here we can already conclude that with some kind of momentum of tourism that has grown all these years is this island law and I would even say that it has been carried out by people who have felt the needs of the island. Because I remember, there were often attacks on why this dock here, why here the dock there and just people didn't understand that it meant more to these people than I know what. So maybe that's how we think about it, that's how we discussed it when we talked about amending the PPDS Act or maybe that's how we discussed it this morning when we talked about funds from pre-accession funds and what's waiting for us, maybe we could find that swing that might pick up both mountainous and mountainous areas and areas of PPDS tomorrow. And this is how we accuse each other like we're enemies and I think we're friends like it's nice to go to the islands so it's nice to go to Baranja and therefore let's try all of us if we're going to agree that this island law has given us some momentum and let's try to find that swing for PPDS and mountainous mountainous areas, but you saw the other day when we talked about Gorski Kotar why did this happen? Why wasn't it intervened? But I'm saying, sometimes old sayings have a far greater depth than the one that seems to be, but still, this hearing of ours is probably going to let us go to that Bosnian saying, "Oh, God, we've had our own fun."
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70658	The answer of my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70659	Just you guys have fun but you see the facts are like this, so the Law on PPDS and mountainous areas are slowly, those benefits that existed in 2017 will be completely abolished. They'll be even with all the other areas. And that's conditional during your government's talks with the EU. Yes, yes, yes, that is so said, it is presented here that it is abolished because of what the EU is asking for, here at the Assembly speaker. But are you with the EU whether the Island Act will stay, so it stays. So we have already come to the detection of certain problems that have actually arisen. Next, when you talk about those ports. I know that you remember our debates about that port of Rava that was controversial and that, in which your minister spent a lot of money, I won't talk about how much it wouldn't turn out to be someone here now me or some Galjenica, so we can talk about it, so don't talk about yourself having fun, have fun about yourself, or maybe someone else will have fun about you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70660	We continue, we move on to an individual debate. Josip Boric, please colleague Grubisic and colleague Šuker. Here you go, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70661	Dear Vice President, I'm going to try and put this back where we stopped at the break with my debate. I think it's good that we've opened up the debate, that the number of applicants is saying that this topic is quite interesting, that this document for the past tens and over of years has been through this House unanimously, always over, that there has been a consensus about this law and it's hard to understand some of these discussions and even difficult words, but everyone has the right to say what they want to say, so let them speak. And I'm going to go back to the islands because it's one area he lives in, which deserves the attention of this country and the attention of this country and of every government, and it should continue like that. Croatia is a country of 1244 islands, 5% of the area of the Republic of Croatia, 3% of the population, 250 or 300 thousand beds in that ratio also move the strength of Croatian islands. According to the islands, 50 state lines were established. Out of the total number 1244, only 67 were inhabited by 50 constantly. And some more numbers, 75% of the island's population has a steady income. The ratio is on average between employees and pensioners 1.20:1, most employees are in Krk, most of them are in Rab Island, the most retired again on the island of Krk because it is the most human. We have so much specificity that one Municipality of Omisalj in Krk has a relationship of employees and pensioners 2.8:1, but one Sucuraj 0.43:1 and shows the difference in islands such as Hvar where on one side of the island we have a completely negative picture while on the other picture you have a completely different relationship. As far as net income is concerned, any administration can have it, so it can have it today. On the part of the IRS, we know exactly what's going on on the islands. The island with the highest net income from which everyone else is then charged is the island of Krk that now crosses and over 500 million kuna means net income. I think that the islands were recognised as a system in '99 through the island law they put themselves in a legislative framework and each government gave its part in improving the system. And today at the HDZ Club, we tried to open one debate in another direction. We've reached a certain level, and we need to say what we want to do now because we've only heard what was heard by the Executive Authority. We haven't heard a single sentence that we want to go on in 2013, which is what we want in 2014, what we want in 2015, etc. Many laws do not have a deadline or an island law, and it is good that it does not exist, and we welcomed the government's decision not to abolish the island law but at the same time we have sought not only now at that thematic session when the Regional Development Act was presented not to repeal the Law on the mountainous and mountainous area or the Law on PPDS because the assisted areas are seeking further care from the state for at least a decade no matter what happens in the political part within which certain events take place on the political scene. I can say today that if we're just going to bring it all back to the figures of a billion and 700 million kuna is less than what the islands return to the state budget. There are bases for that, and it can be proven. And then to talk about who he was helping, and that would be one interesting relationship because tourism has been on the islands for decades, it hasn't developed itself. I come from the island of Rab where it was only 1963 that it was possible to translate a car into an island in a very different way than it is today. The history of the island's integration is about 4 decades long and there has been a lot going on in the process. The island of Krk, for example, only in 1980, abolished its shortest line, and the reason was the bridge. Until then, the island of Krk had not developed. We have a situation today that simply tourism is looking for new investments. Local self-government is ready for this. We see that the state through HBOR can also support the sector. But what's going on? There's been a stalemate in the investment, it's because the real estate market just disappeared. All that is said here today and wondering how much a square of land on an island has led to the fact that there is no longer any interest in costing and 10 euros will not be bought by anyone because it was a situation, and there was a time when the square was and much more expensive and the development of the island should not depend on this particular relationship. He was in some way planned at the time of that former state. Tourist complexes and tourist facilities were not created just like that. They were born organized and thoughtfully to me. They didn't come from anywhere, even though they could say on the islands that the shipyards entered our most beautiful locations, which was a blow, let's say for one ecological part, the aesthetic value of the island. We can see it in Korčula, in Veli Luka, these small shipyards in Mali Losinj, meaning but it is also the desire of the then authorities to move on the islands of people, to develop industry, etc. Tourism has only started to develop intensively since 2000, and further to return to the number of beds now in 1989, these are times of mass so-called. tourism. And the apartments and everything that's been going on over the past ten years have brought us into the story of illegal construction, but it's been an intense development. Now, if we've built tourist complexes and everything else we've done without infrastructure, without draining. It was rarely good water supply or minimum capacity and there was not so much money being invested because we had the infrastructure. The money was invested because it was all missing, we didn't have it. Who had the drain until five, six years ago? Very rare. The drain system. Water supply today almost all of us have except for Losinj and Cres from the mainland. Until last year, one island of Brac had no sports hall with 10,000 inhabitants, had no gym until it was built in Supetar, not to mention schools, everything else. It was all built because it was missing and it's not down from other areas because these areas can now be a lever of development, but they need to be targeted by policy, they need to be offered something new. Not only for them as areas, but for the mayors, to direct them, to tell them what they can and can't. And that's where I opened the EIB 3 loan story because I think it's a good loan, that under favourable conditions, it's the most favourable on the market, that it can't be a burden. For 20 years, returning a million euros a year to the country must not be a burden if we can do 20, 30, 50 good projects, if we can take part in withdrawing funds from the European Union and this is the island's chiefs, the mayors expect it and the state should not put an end to it and please, Deputy Chief, do not do so. Find a way, we saw on the rebalancing so you could secure a home component that you didn't even have to provide last year, so we could leave it behind. You will see that your effects will be positive and that you will succeed at least as much as to make up for everything that hasn't happened in the last two years, and these are direct aid to capital investments because it's quite on the islands simply that segment scheduled for the last two years. That's what every mayor and mayor will tell you. Five million isn't enough, and with 50 million, we can do something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70662	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here I would also get involved in one of your statements that you just said that, say, land prices doesn't matter today, that we're assessing the situation as it is now, the situation on the islands. Yeah, maybe not today, not yesterday, but it's within eight years. The price of land is very important because if we compare to... Croatia for saying that we can price land 1 euro per square as opposed to the bottom where 100 euros per square is, now just consider the previous income from the property tax that was owned, i.e. gives income to local administration and self-government. Then you'd go back to another thing that I'm more and more concerned about might be problematic, and that's the question of the very efficiency of investment, and that's talking about, I'm still going back to it, about income per capita. If someone has 10,000 kuna per capita income, largely local units at island and coastal level, then we must also talk about the possibilities of what the mayors and the mayors did. We talked about Zadar, yes, but he would ask Zadar and the mayor of Zadar and the county must also take care of all the territory, the whole area and those islands in which it was not invested. Which is why it may have been in Zadar of the Sea organ or Greeting the sun and other things, 5-6 more ships could be bought for that money that would then cover some part of the connection with those islands or something else. So let's really see where the efficiency of the investments and the money that they've invested is, and we're looking at it now that it's not invested yet. Let's be honest, if these money had invested in northern Croatia I think that in Krapina-Zagorje County and Varazdin-Međimurje today they would have wondered and what else should be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70663	Comrade Boric, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70664	Thank you very much. My colleague Skurić, I cannot accept this last part because what is the role of Zadar in connecting the island, I think the state has its shipowner and has to think about it because it is its obligation. Tourism is content, tourism is a story, tourism is a myth and legend and it should be created. Those who do it successfully, and the Zadrans seem to be doing it successfully, begin to disturb everyone at some point. For what? I mean, we can't bring ourselves into it now, because we're talking about the Island Law, we're opposing all the areas in the Republic of Croatia. So what's the mistake? And we talk about islands all the time, we're talking about islands in HDZ. We've offered solutions, we want to hear from the executive authority what he thinks about it. They need to know what they want and everything we've said today is very argumentative. If our transport traffic is stagnating, we've reached the top. If we're going down there, we're going to make some moves or we're going to give in to the momentum, so where does that get us? The islands have been organized so far, and we're still looking for it, we're looking for 10 years and we're still looking for it. There have been some changes given the entry into the European Union. Let's adapt to that, but let's let that path go up. Let us not settle for stagnation, or we should be satisfied that our traffic is falling. We said what, 30,000 cars, 15 000 passengers in ferry transport and 51,000 in high-speed. Well, it didn't happen because everything was well worked out, and I warned why it happened in the high-speed boat, because we were on our way... So what's 20 kuna higher price on the catamaran? Here, we have a reaction, so let's raise another 20, and we'll see how many passengers are going to fall. Because people are very concerned, especially about islanders, daggers, taking care of their own pocket, and they have the right, as are every citizen to assess what is more rewarding to them. And as for the season, about that later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70665	Thank you. Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70666	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Boric, we have already found on several occasions that the existing island law would not have been said to have been spent but if it did, it would require a major change. Two groups, developed and undeveloped islands, were introduced. And mostly incentives, subsidies, measures, projects, international loans have equally approached both islands, and today it cannot do so in such a way.... It is necessary, as you said in your opening speech this morning, to go to further division of Croatian islands and for those islands that are already at the level of self-financing fully, highly developed islands such as Krk, Rab, Mali Losinj, etc., the islands Hvar, Brac, Korčula, are certainly not in the same position as some other islands. In this regard, it would be good for the data to come out of this report and to identify the data that will allow the Government to pursue certain projects that would go according to, for example, Lastovo, Silba, Long Island, etc. etc. So, to go to those islands where further efforts are needed. Maybe that's why it was just one of the channels to solve this and the EIB project, where we could realise important infrastructure, important municipal infrastructures, water supply, draining, etc. etc. So I think that through the Law on Islands and its amendment, through the implementation of the EIB 3 project, it is possible to implement these projects that we are talking about and to raise the level of development and these islands that are currently in the second group.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70667	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70668	Comrade Bačić, we have proposed as a club. We expect the executive's reaction to tell us how he feels about it. So do we agree to divide the islands into five groups now? I repeat again. Crossed islands Krk, Pag, Vir, Murter and Ciovo. Another group of large islands closest to the mainland Rab, Cres, Lošinj, Ugljan, Pasman, Solta, Brač, Korčula and Hvar. Third coastal islands are those that are large but are the most distant from the land of Dugi Otok, Vis, Lastovo, Mljet. The fourth group of small populated or occasionally populated islands in the administrative composition of large local self-government on land within Zadar, Sibenik, Trogir, Dubrovnik, Mali Losinj. It is the Union, Susak, Ilovik, Premuda, Silba, Olib, etc. There's a lot of them. Such redistribution allows proper indexation. It will make it possible in line with signed commitments to the EU especially in fishing for some of the relief for these coastal islands. It will allow us to look a little differently at the bridged islands. Yet, one life today is quite different from that of those who are not overcome. Not to lose their privileges, but to look at what with them. Big islands. They're now all connected to the nearest corners. There's still Hvar, the new port of Drvenik. That's what to think about. Pucinski islands Dugi Otok, Vis, Lastovo and Mljet surely in traffic connection should get special attention, because there are still one larger number of people there. They're big on the surface, but they're the furthest from the land. And then those little ones who are looking for help for now may be the biggest, because in the next 10 years, they should be the goal of leaving their lives behind, and that country shouldn't invest too much in me, but it should be well designed to figure out what measures that are to make that life a little bit more renewed, but also to stay there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70669	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70670	Comrade Borić, your categorization so could say the island in these four categories is very much exceeded and very good and I fully agree that, it would actually be in some way more just than this categorization so far. And in order to quote, as you yourself have said, that islands can be a lever of development. If they become a lever of development, and here we have 15 years a billion and a half kuna about or as Bačić says 700 million kuna, but we're not going to count on it now. Math is our weak side. So if they become a lever of development then it will be good for Slavonia that we will have where our young men come to read lemons, figs, shake olives, cook, waiters, work in shops over the season, so at least 2 months to do that is good. Unfortunately, I must no longer speak of Slavonia as not a lever of development, but a locomotive of Croatia's development, because here I will have fierce opponents on your side.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70671	Thank you. Answer. You won't answer? Thank you. A fellow Shucker, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70672	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Boric, can you imagine what a Croatian budget would look like this year and what macro-economic indicators would have been if in the past 10 years it hadn't, to say, developed this project that had simply developed tourism on the Middle Dalmatian islands, on Dalmatian islands raised to a completely different level. They'd probably be talking today about a deficit of about 24, 25 billion, probably over 40,000 kuna. And we can still list a number of things. And this kind of debate, as it is today, was similar when it came to EIB Project 1, EIB 2 and 3, when certain projects were being undertaken from the state budget, when certain loans were being raised from institutional banks, above all I mean the EBRD and the World Bank to address important infrastructure projects both on the coast and on the islands. And I'm saying, we can only imagine what that budget would look like. And we today rather than enjoy finally making a law that has achieved some result over a ten-year period and ultimately no matter how difficult it may be sometimes and imagine that all political options, and above all people living in that climate agree that this is the case. And that we are thinking the same way tomorrow when there are some topics regarding both Slavonia and about the Mountain Wheel and Like and try to do something useful. Unfortunately, our debate ends with us fighting like we hate each other. But we repeat how nice it is to go to some island, so it is nice to go to Baranja and Slavonia and Papuk and Lika and Gorski Kotar. And whoever loves this Homeland thinks that way. And I sincerely hope that with the same ferocity, we will debate when there is a substitute of the Law on Special Areas of Special State Care Because, simply through regional policy in the European Union, even better and more quality resources can be obtained than... [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70673	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70674	Thank you very much. A fellow Shuker can imagine, I can imagine especially when today's maritime minister says the budget swings or the climate. It's the big news today, and we're rightly afraid. We are afraid of another collection if this budget is air-conditioned, and if the maritime transport subsidies go down as announced. We ask them not to leave. If this system is complex, if it has been expanded by 2016, then anyone who does so is doing damage to themselves first because it degrades the set system. And we've heard that's enough. We had the strength to bring water from land to small islands, to Elafite, to Vrgad. Recently here is this year and Ilovik from land for a hundred or 50 people who live there, on Lastovo, today and Mljet. So these are development projects that allow life to survive, and there each government needs to make a contribution. However, one major problem remains to this government and so far is tourism and hotel houses, unprivatised hotel houses on the islands. We don't know what's going on here, we can just follow up on some information that hasn't been verified that many of them don't know what's going to happen to them. I come from the island of Rab, where there is a hotel house called Imprial and we are all nine and a few thousand interested in what will be with this house. It owns the state, operates positively, operates well, restores hotels, raises them to four stars, raises camps, and is the time for the government to sell that pearl and such, that we don't know Hvar or something like that in Haluduvo or some other things where we're burned as Government. And that's why we want to hear what the islands see and how the executive government sees and there are representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70675	Thank you. We'll continue the debate, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70676	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Mr. Assistant Minister. Well, even during the replicas in the debate, I have already presented that presentation that I now intend to unite, but what I want to say at the beginning is that the systematic concern for the Croatian islands actually started in 1995 and 96 years when the national programme of sustainable development of Croatian islands was being developed. Then some older than us will remember there was a state administration center for the development of the island, later through a project to develop a national programme there was a vision to make an island development agency as an independent body in the Republic of Croatia that systematically cared for the Croatian islands. At that time, however, such a variant did not prevail, but decided to set up an island administration as one body that will systematically coordinate in the affairs of the state administration in the context of the ministry of reconstruction and public works when it comes to Croatian islands. Based on this national plan for the development of Croatian islands, it was adopted in 1999. The island law, which has really enabled a series of state policy measures towards Croatian islands than better transport connections, then creates fast shipping lines, very quickly introduces nightlines, significant subsidisation of ferry prices, very quickly opens a very important project for the development of Croatian islands, which is CEF 4, which is the loan of the Council of Europe Development Bank, which is the most complex, most elaborate, ever project on Croatian islands that has allowed the construction of numerous ports and ports, has enabled a significant system of water supply and disposal, building of social infrastructure, health homes, schools, kindergartens, halls, etc. etc. This project made it possible to raise standards in Croatia's islands significantly and when it was stopped, when it was completed with the new project, it was EIB III, which is a slightly weaker financial structure than the CEF 4 project itself, but which was designed to continue the current high level of investment in municipal and social infrastructure on islands, and it would be good if this project really were to be completed, which would have made it possible for me and for a significant increase in one level of development and the island of another group not to list them individually now. I have already said that it is not all about measuring through the level of financial resources that any state budget has invested in the Croatian islands. It is necessary that the Resort Ministry actively monitors the adoption of the entire legislative regulation in the Republic of Croatia and I resent this report, Mr Deputy, which in its opening work, and this has been the case so far I do not know why you gave it up. In its opening work, this report has always meant a cross-section of all the laws and sublaws that were adopted in this House in one year and which in one way or another had implications for life on the islands because it was then long and proven. Resort administration really cares about any law that changes improves or does not bring improvements to life on islands. I think that this review was made up then we would see that we are threatened with the death of many areas of schools that through the reorganisation of the network of courts in Croatia will feel very much in Croatian islands. When numerous municipal courts of Korčula begin to be abolished, according to others, it will certainly have implications for the life of the islanders. A little while ago I also mentioned the Sea Fisheries Act, etc., etc. that I don't now list all those other laws that are, that would be in favor of it. Therefore, in addition to the financial investments I welcome, I said that the HDZ Club will also support that in these crisis times, recession times have not been reduced in the positions of Croatian or Croatian islands. And that's something to say goodbye to. But I'm also talking about that other piece that's not measured by financial indicators that can make life more difficult for the islanders and make it more expensive. If we can't do some service today that we've already had on the island, it's somewhere off the island, I'll definitely reduce the quality of life on Croatian islands. And it's not just an incentive to live on islands to invest on the island itself. I believe that on the Croatian islands it was most helpful to build highways, to build two gats in Split port, to build a new port Stinica for the integration of Rab, to build Prapatna on Peljesac for the integration of the island of Mljet, and to invest, although not contained in this, perhaps often these indicators are the assumption of the development of life on the islands, and because of that if something happens on land and is in function or traffic connection or something else that provides important infrastructure support for life on the islands should be welcomed and it should also sometimes be shown through such reports. So I don't think it's necessary to read whether this kuna is more, it's less casually important that through certain large infrastructure projects, systems such as regional waterways or... better quality power supplies contribute not only to the development of the island but to the entire country. The specificity of this law, which he really requires in his provisions for the Croatian Parliament to be familiar with the effects of law enforcement. I do not know whether any law in Croatia except for this law which obliges the Croatian government to meet the Croatian Parliament on the effects of the implementation of this law. Well, in the end, it's precisely because of this one feature of this island law here today that we're discussing. It might be good to discuss the effects of, for example, the implementation of subsidies in agriculture, so let's see if the huge funds measured in billions in those parts of the island, rather than in the islands, because certainly the smallest part of these subsidies are brought to the Croatian islands, did they have success there, as the measures for the development of the island have taken place in this law. Therefore, when we list and look at what was done on the islands, this is what happens for reasons why this provision in the law has allowed the obligation to speak better about the implementation of the Island Law. In addition to the home law, the Law on Islands other important, if not perhaps more important, is the Law on Transport Connection of Croatian Islands, the Law on Public Line and Coastal Maritime Transport and, clearly, very closely linked state subsidies provided to the Public Coastal Maritime Transport Agency. I also warned here during the 2012, 2013 and 2014 budget, and it is good and I welcome the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which we have remained in the 2012 budget for 2013 still at the level of around... million kuna, which amount can serve the entire maritime integration system in Croatia. This now amount of 326 million kuna will not be able to, or there will be an increase in prices, and this serious price hike or further suspension will occur, and I already said this morning that some lines have been abolished or there will be a decrease in frequencies on a particular line or what is now happening, be careful in 2011 on the most difficult coastal line of Split-Lastovo speedboat line was only 31 days in which the catamaran did not sail due to weather disasters. In this year, in 42 days 24 times he did not sail the catamaran in Vela Luka and Lastovo, there were so many storms and there were no witnesses and residents of Lastovo and the people of Korčula. It's one trip to those catamarans from Split to Lastovo and back 3.5 tonnes of fuel or somewhere around 20,000 kunas and times 24 that's what half a million kunas have saved Jadrolini or boater because it doesn't sail there. And this will happen because the opportunity will be used whenever the weather conditions are a little bit worse for the islands not to sail and to enter the framework that has been budgeted for us, and that is a significant reduction, and that is the situation you believe in in other islands. Let other islands that are less connected in this way tell you because it cannot be served with 324 million in traffic that is served with 380 million kuna. There's no magic wand, and that's gotta happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70677	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70678	Thank you very much. I'm signing everything you said, and I'm going to look back on this part of the agency. We've been changing this law here, remember when the government decided to introduce only the ministers from certain resistors in the agency, and to remove the profession from the governing council, to evict the Hydrographic Institute to evict the representatives of small shipmen. And what happened? And that's the task of the sector, and the sector can't do that because it's not management, and it happens to us that we are passing laws that are very much about the island, which affect some of the institutions that exist on the islands, and then we're just surprised what happened. Someone didn't notice. That hasn't happened to us in eight years. We were very concerned and in the first reform of the judiciary of municipal courts on the islands, we had some other institutions that remained. The only thing that we've abolished was that observation and surveillance service that became the State Department for Protection and Rescue, all the other post offices are now being abolished especially on small islands, we have the fact that we no longer know how to bring a letter or mail that has been going so far. Everything's being centralized. I'll give an example of my island where we had our own post office in a place where I live 12km from Rab where now the postman on a small motorcycle travels 12km to bring mail from the central part of the island, and we have our own post office. And what came in one day now comes in two days, and there's no savings, just difficult conditions. These are examples... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70679	Thank you very much. Replication response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70680	Thank you, Mr. President. You're right. You're right. With this intervention you reminded me of another illogicality, so I'll say it here when you just mention the Agency for Public Line and Coastal Maritime Traffic, then I'll tell you that last year the agency has opened a tender for high-speed lines. The two busiest speedboats on the Adriatic are Split-Hvar-Korčula and Split-Hvar-Vela Luka-Lastovo, the total number of passengers 300 000. The two lines were the best, the largest catamaran on the Adriatic. The competition has been opened so that now these lines have been given catamarans with 20% less capacity and now you can't get a ticket in the summer period, and two of the largest catamarans have gone on two lines where they usually travel half-empty. This is how and how traffic policy is conducted on Croatian islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70681	Honorable representative Mladen Marelić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70682	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bačić, you know well when a tender was launched that the boater privateer appeared on the line at Vis 33 miles, not on the Korčula which drove 60 miles and that he was interested in getting the shortest line for the same money. Secondly, no captain or shipowner decides to leave the port, but rather lets the Port Authority and those professional services that care about sailing and sailing to certain ports.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70683	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70684	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Marelić, and you and I know very well that this problem was possible very easily. Only the agency should have set up that catamaran under the conditions of the competition, which can only connect and respond to traffic both for Korčula, both for Vis, for Rab, for Hvar, for any other island, but it went from data far below the needs of those islands. And there's been a raffle in maritime transport, and you know it well because you're the user of that traffic, that today this traffic does not meet the needs of the islanders, and that's all for the reasons that it went through political appointments in an agency that can only be professional and can sit in boatmen and islanders, and then it's the right way to realize quality maritime traffic on the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70685	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. It's an honorary representative of Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70686	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we have heard many times today that the Island Act was passed in 1999 and that at that moment it was a very good decision for both the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament to try to help the islands by one special law, i.e. by a series of measures and activities I would say return to life and ensure basic conditions for life on the island and try to prevent a constant outflow of the population from the island. No matter how much we consider it necessary to review the law itself and amend it in some part, which is more said by fellow Boric, the implementation of the law mentioned all these years still gives certain results. They differ from year to year, sometimes they're better, sometimes they're worse, but globally they're still one positive shift. To say our people on the islands, and the foot in the ass is a step forward. It is this people's saying that the summary of these reports is, in particular, the 2012 reports and the government's relations with the islands. No matter what we support this report, allow a few observations and remarks. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and particularly the basis of the Island Act, emphasized that the islands are Croatian natural wealth and that they are of particular national, historical and economic importance and interest to the Republic of Croatia and have its special protection. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The island law, which is today, states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia reports at least once a year by the Croatian Parliament on the effects of the implementation of this law. Here today is February 13, 2014 and we are getting a report from 1.1.2011, meaning with a delay of three years, which is only proof of how much the government respects the law, but how much it holds up to our islands. In addition to the fact that the government has been going throughout 2012 until 10 months 2013, it did not establish an island council prescribed by the Island Act. It consists of representatives of all coastal counties and functions as the advisory body of the resolution minister and should be discussed with regard to all decisions concerning the island's problems. In the same reports and comparison of these two government reports, the government boasts that the country's investment in island development in 2012 increased by 24.85% compared to 2011 and amounted to 1 billion and 777 million kuna. But it should be pointed out that issues from the state sector, i.e. issues from all ministries are essentially reduced in nominal amount of 121 million kuna. In 2011, there were 680 million kunas, amounting to 559 million. Thus, the total resources from the state budget for the islands were reduced by 17.81% compared to 2011. The reduction concerns the Ministry of Interior with 79 million kuna, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs with 16 million, the Ministry of Agriculture with 13 million and not to list all other mentioned ministries, from regional development, entrepreneurship and crafts, defence, to the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. What has made this 2012 report more beautiful is investment in islands through HBOR lending, means loans of 652 million as well as accounts of the Pelješki bridge of 137 million and 505 000, which is practically half of the total amount of funds invested for 2012 and therefore this is why someone does not understand that a billion and 777, but that half of that amount is actually invested. What represents the additional problem identified in this Report is the fact that it systematically reduces the subsidy in the public transport activity in line coastal transport. For example, in 2008, the subsidy amounted to 436 million kuna. In 2012, they were reduced to 375 million kuna, and last year there was 355 million kuna, almost 20% reduction compared to 2008. If we know that public transport in line coastal maritime transport includes 56 lines by 13 boaters, so Jadrolinija plus 12 private ones, and that it transports about 11 million passengers annually and somewhere around 2.7 million vehicles, then this is a continuous reduction of support, a direct blow to the island's inhabitants. Because reducing the support, it's not reduced to the boaters. This means that on the ground that the number of trips on individual lines is reduced, means a lower connection with the mainland, and thus the harder conditions of life on the island. What concerns us most is a significant reduction in investment in municipal island infrastructure. From the position of the Department of Islands, which amounted to 19.8 million kuna in 2011, while in 2012, it amounted to only 5.6 million kuna. Here today were the talks and mentions of Zadar and Zadar County, and since the Ministry of Regional Development, and also the Centre for Islands in Resorbs, some ministry of these islands, that I also came from Zadar County, and that the Ministry of Regional Development invested 127 million and 486213 kuna in all Croatian islands, you will hear how much was invested from each item in the Zadar Islands. In transport infrastructure, means in roads and air transport, in the municipal infrastructure relating to water, sewage and arrangements, in social infrastructure education, in social care, in the cultural and current support items of municipalities and items supported areas and items of the programme of preparation and implementation of development projects eligible for EU funding, the ministry has invested round zero kunas. The only project that was funded in 2012 is on the island of Pag Lunan Gardens with 2 and a half million kuna. And one thing that hasn't been lifted is road transport subsidies and water supplies subsidies. I don't know what to say to this. It was probably estimated that over the past 6 7 years, we have been working and digging for the purpose of draining, watering, building health institutions, homes for the old and powerless, building roads, building marinas, rehabilitating ports to the nerves of the domicile population, creating an unbearable noise level, so the ministry in 2012 and this case in 2013 has freed us from all government-funded work to keep our population in peace and quiet. For another reason, to remain well-intentioned and decent I can't remember, but I'm sure our islanders will honor this government in the next election.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70687	Thank you very much. Let's go, the first replica of the respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70688	You tell a colleague you may have forgotten something, setting up a problem for the islanders, so you list that they are the most tortured and subsidized transport that is reduced year after year. However, you should remember that as early as 2008, the city of Zadar won its victory, so in 2008, the start of 2008 says here is the city's water company, together with Zadar County, Croatian Waters and the Hydro Engineering Project, so it represents that a location permit was obtained for buildings on Silbi and Premidi, that during the following year, there will be complete documentation for all islands not only those making up the city of Zadar, but generally for the Zadar Islands. For you will indeed agree that the islands of Zadar, especially the islands of Zadar, to those who make up the city of Zadar, is a water supply. People say give us water, don't be like a thirsty rock on the November. So that's what the Zadar Islands need. Which, then, was already a plan for the south, for the west leg. The southern one you know from Ugljan to Rava, Dugi Otok, the western leg from Ugljan towards Rivnje, Sestrunju, Zverinc, Molata, Istu, Olib, Silbi, Premudi, etc. You already know that. What happened? She's there watering up on Silba and nothing else. In 2012, Zadar County comes back again and says we do not have the funds, we will have to run for EU structural funds. But there will still be a problem with the project documentation. So, what I'm still standing on is that local self-government and state should be involved, but the state can't make you a project documentation. Those who were in it agile so much, they were so successful. But I believe that this city of Zadar will help the Zadar Islands when 70% of the water in the city of Zadar goes to the ground. It's for Guinness's book.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70689	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70690	My colleague Ingrid, it's signifying one of the things the state won't do to you. I come from Zadar the same way you do, so tell us not. That's one thing. Another thing you should know and an experienced and much more experienced politician with a much longer internship in Parliament and a former minister than I am that a small town, a small municipality, cannot even finance project documentation alone. Shall I sit down? I was going to say well-intentioned to expect Mrs. Ingrid to advocate at the government of the Kukuriku coalition which she supports to help us in our efforts to finally water the Zadar Islands, and given what I said in 2012 it was the same in 2013 that this government did not give a single kuna not only to water and drain but also to all that I counted not to repeat for the Zadar Islands. I doubt Miss Ingrid will be waiting for us again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70691	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric is a replica within the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70692	So here's a colleague of Jerolim's. You come from the island and you know very well, so given the previous discussions and issues that have been related to some of the many perks of the island's inhabitants, it would be good to explain what a four-member transport price is for an island to get to the mainland so the public knows that it's not just winter, it's a boat to the mainland, and it turns out that these people are driving for free, here maybe as an island they could give the exact amounts they're dealing with.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70693	Here's an opportunity, the esteemed representative of Ante Jerolimov, to answer the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70694	I thank my colleague, Klaric. Well, I'm not much of an expert on the price of Jadrolinija right now, but I travel daily in relations so that they don't think respected parliamentary representatives and all of the Croatian public are given something here. I'm going to tell you one piece of information that for a four-member family that goes by car on the Preko-Zadar route and that's a relationship of three nautical miles or five kilometers to cost us a return card of 350 kuna, that's not so with those vignets that someone thinks the ministry has divided our vignettes and now that we're driving up and down. There's one thing I've read, that I haven't been to Lastovo but I've read that it's also for a four-member family with a car to Lastov and back 1050 kuna. And according to all that is said today, these are not so small funds mainly for people living on the island, who are forced to go to the centre of the county once and twice a day.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70695	Honorable representative of Denes Shaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70696	Thank you very much, President. My colleague Jerolimov, you've put out a lot of data very nicely, you said that in measures, laws and sublaws, life should be restored, etc. And you've elaborated it. I'd like to ask everyone who you're very nicely discussing about this problem that our debate that we're from to call such a strict continental that you don't realize that anyone at least I don't have against any investment. I prefer it when I take guests from my country of origin from Hungary down to the Adriatic and I can show something that is not on the other seas, that beautiful sea or something beautiful built. However, from all these discussions and indicators, we only appeal to one analysis because not all islands and all cities, towns on islands in the same position, to be seen, and certainly none of these Slavonian towns, I must tell you but don't let anyone find you offended, neither Beli Manastir nor Donji Miholjac nor Valpovo dream that from the state budget, from taxes, the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia will build a closed swimming pool as is built on Korčula and thank God it's over. Here's $12 million from the state budget. You should. I'd like that Korčula to be the champion of Europe. I don't mind, but you understand I have to advocate because maybe those young men in the White Manastir or Valpov would like to swim over the winter and now I can't, over the summer in Drava eventually and possibly in the Danube. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70697	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70698	My colleague, I wouldn't want you to take this the wrong way. All representatives who come from the island and members of the HDZ are at least in their name they can say they are extremely proud and extremely happy when in any part beautiful to ours, from Slavonia, from Baranja, Gorski Kotar, Like or I don't know where, whoever is in power, an absolute device of projects that means the life of the people who live there so that in that part you fully understand about the fight and the drive towards your end. But it was also the subject of the Island Law today, so we reacted as we reacted. And we have just given the initiative and the proposal, Mr. Boric has given for a change that not all islands can be the same and that in several sub-classes rank towards the size or bridge of either home or nearby islands. And as for Korčula and the KPK, he was not going to be, but was a European water polo champion, it's an institution, you know, with us in Dalmatia there are more institutions of these sports that mean sometimes more than life.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70699	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It is the turn of Vice-President of the House, Honorable Representative Milorad Batinic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70700	Thank you, Mr. President. Deputy, assistant, co-workers and colleagues. Namely, I will begin my debate with the conclusion that the report on the effects of the implementation of the 2011/2012 Island Act is quoted as saying: "A transparent analysis of the measures of the island-developed policy since its installation in '95. To date, it indicates that investments in municipal and social infrastructure and other sectors on the islands have had a positive impact on the development of the island." Continuing "The fact that islands are above the national average by degree of development, but still life on islands is perceived hardly sustainable, the need to formulate new measures that will have a development goal, which the central state is already engaged in." This is the essence of today's debate, one conclusion which he has in advance as if the assistant minister had listened to the debate so far, both clubs and colleagues, which can be defined as some conclusion of today's debate. In fact, 7500 island residents more compared to the 2001 census, 5, some percent, very respectable, very commendable, and if the price is a billion-and-a-half investment over the next 14 years, it is not too high a price. Aware of the facts in Croatia that happens, depopulation, if such measures can increase the number of inhabitants, believe me, it is not a high price. But they can't be taken from the impression, when it's divided by these billions and a half on an annual basis with population numbers looking, even if it's hard to compare, maybe they've already brought it up by colleagues, so it's not about direct subsidies, credit funds, but somewhere it's about 10,000 kuna per capita per year, it's investing in islands plus the budget of local self-government units. I took, for example, some who were interesting to me and the average from the lowest to the highest, so let's say we take the Municipality of Baška, Group 5, the 145 development index, some percent, income, average income per capital of nearly 30 thousand kuna, unemployment rate 6.9, average original income per capita 8663. What did the municipality give for the island of Krk? Looking parallel to these state budget investments. Now I will take you comparisons to take the same island, continental in northern Croatia, Donja Loća municipality, 2455 inhabitants, average income 12.228, 3 times lower than in Baška, income of the municipal per capital 350 kuna and unemployment rate 22%. A special state concern, as one of his colleagues said, I think he was a colleague of Boric, that more was given to the area of special state care per capita than the islands, there we cannot agree on. Simple numbers are inexorable in that part. Why am I comparing? What I stand for, and I believe that a large majority of us, and this conclusion, which at the end of this report, is given in the need to formulate new measures, one new policy versus the island, one new policy versus the undeveloped areas of the Republic of Croatia. I think we are, in that regard, unique. We may have gone a little off topic, but these figures simply impose and this report imposes one debate on the development of the Republic of Croatia, but absolutely in all parts of the Republic of Croatia. And now I'm asking you, I'm going to take my city, 22 thousand kuna income per capita, 1400 even if it's not the right data, 1280 in this year per capita, 11% unemployment rate, we weren't PPDS, state support, that's something that's come in the last two years, for capital projects, not in the budget, and we're not complaining. There are no settlements that have no drinking water, sewerage coverage around 46%, co-financing of citizens for municipal infrastructure, co-finance free transportation of students since 2005, we co-finance J.J. GRADNIJU schools, sports halls, all with 1400 kuna city budget revenues. So I ask where? The question, what will certainly need to be arranged, not just reviewing new access to islands, I can certainly agree, I had the opportunity as a student at Rab who fascinated me with biodiversity, now beauty, to be in the winter period. I can say a little dreary, you have an impression already as soon as it gets dark that midnight let's say something like the Arctic but much nicer, so warmer means it's not easy, I can understand. But we also need to see the effectiveness of cities, municipalities with so much income from colleagues and colleagues, with so much budget revenue per capita. I'll take the town of Hvar 5570, believe me, I have one mandate for the next 20 years in my city, I shouldn't need the support of the state or any other structural funds. But the question of the effectiveness of the island’s local self-government unit to a large extent in the coastal area is whether this large income of municipalities and towns in the coastal area is the result that they have become a bit relaxed, that they are irrationally lords of money, perhaps the subject and certain conclusions could be derived from this together. But certainly certain problems that the islanders have, transportation, I agree, is a big problem. But we also have an island in the continent not to tell Lika 10 residents per mile square, 8 is now here you see. How many islands are there? Very much so. I don't think there's any place that can't get the island's status. Croatian Zagorje, Prigorje, Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska County so I think a large number of municipalities, cities, settlements have no waterway, have wells, not to say Slavonia etc. I think we can agree definitely, that I wouldn't be misunderstood, yes, but I think this date, that this report after 14 years, that it should underline the quality of the impact review and be seen for one invested kuna that has been obtained. Tourism is priorities, but it has Japanese proverbs, some say it's Chinese "Don't bring him fish every day, buy him a hook, teach him how to hunt for himself".
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70701	Thank you very much. Now we have one set of replicas. Honorable representative Damir Rilje, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70702	Dear fellow Batinić, here I would only supplement a little on you if you would allow it. In fact, you said the price of life and I absolutely agree on the islands is worth investing in, of course, in other parts of our country absolutely, but now we're talking about islands. What have the municipalities, as far as they could, been more and what can cities and municipalities objectively give in these areas? Sometimes for various reasons cities, municipalities can't track the importance of investment sometimes inherited reasons sometimes have objectively no financial potential, but here's an example. There is an island called the island of Ciovo, divided by two cities and one municipality. A bridge called the mainland of Ciovo is long spoken of, it's an old story that should have been made long ago that actually stems from a very burdened state road and connects about 15 thousand inhabitants, and in the summer about 25 thousand inhabitants. For these same islands there is no port, now the port is currently located nowhere in the neighbouring municipality most likely. Of course, this is about county port management mostly, but I don't think she's going to have the financial potential to handle it herself. Of course, so far the price of water has been subsidized, absolutely but there is a water supply of course not solved, but the important thing is that the hydrants and the watersheds are there. As far as waste management is concerned, it's also one of the huge problems, and I don't have time to talk about it right now, but I could. That's what you encouraged me to do, just to fill in a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70703	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70704	Thank you. I think fellow Batinić that you have very responsibly synthesized a part of the topic that we may not be so closely related to the islands, but that is why we are closely related to the totality of the problems of the Republic of Croatia may not have talked about enough. I think you've set up a very good way and it's really time, you've put the the thesis that it's simply time for Croatia's problems to finally start to look at fully and that, as you said, it just draws a simple line and puts itself in a real position and through realistic observation of all parts of Croatia. Of course, no one will be richer because it will be, someone else will be taken and there is no intensity at all, and there I agree with you, but in this period of recession in which the Republic of Croatia really needs to assess the achievements, possibilities, needs of certain regions, certain areas of the Republic of Croatia and those resources that are available in some way to be channeled to those parts of the Republic where at this point or the next few years would really be necessary. Because it is not a question of ferry really it has its own price, but those who have very low income in some areas are price and bus tickets sometimes so high to pay that they simply can't pay. The bus isn't a ferry, but you can't walk. Therefore, I think that the ministry should also assess the overall situation in Croatia and try some identified measures now to address certain areas and specific areas in the Republic of Croatia. And this law has had some effects, they're good, they're useful, but I agree completely with you that now you need to draw a line and see how you move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70705	Thank you very much. Third replica, the respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70706	I give up because Mr. Batinić is in a hurry.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70707	Thank you very much. Fourth replica, Allen Prelec. He's not giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70708	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd just like to agree with Mr. Batinić, who says the state has done a lot for the islanders. If we see a billion and 500 million kuna invested on 114 000 people or above 3%, then we can pull the parallel that 50 billion should be invested for all other Croats, which I think simply all other local self-government units certainly didn't invest that much. But one more thing, clearly all the islands aren't equally developed and we don't have to look at them all equally. For example, Krk has a income of 500 million and if we compare it to some units of local self-government on land, let's say my population of 12,000, we have an income of 42 million kuna. It turns out that we are underdeveloped or that we are at the stage of Albania's development, if we only put ourselves in a relationship. So I think it's absolutely true that this government has invested a lot in the islands, that it needs more, but probably all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70709	Are you talking about economic development? Okay. Dear Representative Marijan Skurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70710	Mr. President. Well, here's what I'm really going to do, but I'd like to confirm these allegations. We really need to start talking in this Croatia about efficiency, concrete things, arguments, to know who is what, to really ask why someone with 1000 kuna income per capita can make such projects, someone with 8,000 kuna all depends on whether someone will give it out of the state budget. I think we need to start talking about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70711	Thank you, Your Honor. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70712	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I won't last any longer when I see the vice president in a hurry. I know that parallels are not good to pull, that it's always hard to compare things, but I noticed your debate in the part where you tried to warn about the problem that units and your city face specifically and the efforts they make to improve the quality of life and opportunities and young people. Believe that all other units are working hard and have shown their effectiveness, but unfortunately in many environments very hard to live on, I have warned it many times in these parts exactly where you spoke Bjelovar-Bilogorska, Koprivnica-Crisser, who has intensively dealt with livestock, is intensively engaged in agriculture. Unfortunately, there was what happened but the problem was also the one that you noticed, that water supply unfortunately in the Bjelovar-Belogor County is in the worst. It is therefore necessary to warn about the problems faced by many municipalities and many rural communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70713	Dear fellow Batinić, thank you very much for your correctness. You can go now. We're going to discuss the respected representative Mladen Marelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70714	Thank you, Mr. President. Deputy and Assistant Minister. Today's debate has caused a lot of activity and storms, so it's important from the topic itself. The importance of the existence of the Island Law speaks of the fact that the island’s relationship itself has changed significantly in a positive way since the day of this law. The most important segments for the development of the island are transport infrastructures and connections. With this goal, the state is making great efforts and resources in several thematic units of transport infrastructure. Common isolation due to poor weather conditions because the islanders depend on the transport of catamarans, ferrys and ships, make quality life even worse. When we know that out of 67 islands are inhabited, and 50 of them are constantly inhabited islands, the total investment of the central state is not how we talk about having everything in a non-refundable state, meaning the central state in the budget part, and part of it has investments in credit. It is good that in 2012, however, more than 353 million were invested. The maritime connection is a significant part of our island and we know that this year and should be of 4 ferrys already ordered that one should go to traffic already for this season. The colleagues are talking about the broken lines and this, yes, we're willing to be both commercial lines and I think we're on a good track and understanding that the commercial lines, which was previously spoken by a colleague, that we islanders are not looking for what we want to luxury, we want to pay for it. So we're on the best track to have a catamaran connection between Split-Hvar-Korčula but it'll be a commercial line, it won't be... on it. It was also lifted along the coastal line. The stories that were going have already been lifted in 2011, we managed to get that line back to work seasonally until today. We expect it to continue this year with the support of local self-government. I'm surprised by one thing, we're talking about good investments, onion construction, onions. We only know that no port on Korčula and Peljesac peninsula that has planned nothing in 8 years to put those ports into operation in Veli Luka, Korčula and Orebić. That must have been forgotten and there was no thinking about it. They also say that guilty people have come to certain functions in the Coastal Transport Agency by political line. I know he's been human for eight years, I mean, a little over eight years, and he's certainly not SDP. I expect that the beginning of next year will continue, i.e. the start of the right to build the Peljega Bridge because our colleagues on the other hand promised us this, to you here less and to the lower ones that were pre-election were the main subject. However, we will provide funds not from Croatia, because we certainly do not have the funds and they knew that they did not have them, because the large funds went to the other side where they should have gone. That's how we expect serious work to begin on that facility. We're saying that the island council didn't carry out its mission to be consulting. I think that the minister and his deputy and assistant, who were here at 11 last year, held an island council in Korcula, which was welcomed and all the suggestions and remarks were accepted by all the participants or members of the island council. I can regret that in 2012, the county did not use enough funds received from the Ministry of Transport and the connections of about 400 million for the county roads, they did not invest on the island roads to improve because these are the funds that came extraordinaryly without their burden on the county. It was directly paid by the ministry. So it's for island counties they should have left some more funds. With that part alone, I think the air traffic on the islands is really far away. Far and far, we only have two airports in operation and I don't think the neighboring Brac has shown that much. But we're in a great deal of action with the ministries to now go hydroplanes that wouldn't cost because the privateer is coming, investing and expecting support in the ministries of the moment when they need certain permits to get their hands on it because it's our obligation, and the rest we're going with other investors. On the islands with good economic cooperation, so the main economy is tourism I think was in a pretty bar on my island in a bad situation to fix something. There's been privatisation and these hotels and all three shipyards. We have three shipyards on Korčula, all three are privatized and I think they've started to work very well. In addition to tourism, we have a farm that is well developed, winemaking, olive growing, oiling. And I think the Ministry of Regional Development has continued a good project that has already gone, a Croatian island product. And I think it echoed well and it will be recognizable not only in Croatia and outside Croatia. In addition to the above, we must have good infrastructure, the rest. So good electricity, electricity that has to be well covered, we have to have a good water net. On Korčula we have, i.e. Pelješac – Korčula – Lastovo and Mljet we have one of the most demanding water lines in Europe. That water line's 100 miles off the main grid. It's 30km underwater, so maritime significance. Also about 200 km of local networks. I mean, these are investments that are very demanding, and unfortunately on the islands we have more places or settlements that don't even have electricity, and we don't even have water, so we can talk, but it hasn't come to the development of the island as it is said in the summer days... The aggregates, and when seen, reads that the islands are quite something else than they are in the winter period. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think that in a health care facility that should be well covered on the islands because you can imagine that one patient travels from the island to the first hospital for three and a half hours. That's how we get to hear that argument sometimes. It's 20 km, 40 km. There's a three-and-a-half hour fastest line to the first hospital... which isn't with the helicopters... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] An emergency if it's a good time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it's bad times and we have to imagine it. That is why life on islands is not easy and is not available for all to live happily ever after. People do a lot of good work, but it is also the fruit of their work and thoughts and this law that was with its dorading we expect to improve life on the islands, and we do not oppose the development of the whole of Croatia in other places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70715	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70716	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Marelić, you know what it says from your mouth to God's ears. So you're saying that the Peles Bridge will continue to build next year. I wish it could come true. But if that is the case, then we should not have stopped building the bridge, because it is not possible in these next year, then we should first do a fissibility study as the European Commission says. Then we heard that the elements of the bridge would change, which means a new construction project, which means a new building permit. There were even words from the restoring ministry that it would even simplify the construction of the bridge to lower its height, which I suppose would then reduce the cost of building the bridge as the minister also announced. In that case, we are expected to renegotiate with the neighbouring BIH so that there are so many assumptions that it should be fulfilled all together that it is too short a year or that I would welcome the Government to continue with the existing bridge construction project and that the project will then be supported by the European Commission from the EU budget. So you, if you remember in that section, mentioned the county and wondered where 400 million are, were the well-being of the County 400 million kunas passed to them by the Croatian roads. If you remember, I was in this assembly saying there's no money in this government to build the Peles Bridge. Croatia's roads were claimed to have no money to build the Pelješka bridge and according to the dynamics, only 300 million kunas were needed in that year and Croatian roads last year, I apologized in 2012 to raise a 400 million kuna loan with the government's consent to invest those funds on foreign property of the County Road Administration. According to this, the money was and could be made, continue with the realization of the bridge by an existing project and for the funds if they come from the European Commission we have them where to invest on Pelješka cesta and on another small bridge which we return from Peljesac to the state road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70717	Replica response, respected representative Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70718	Thank you. Mr. Bacic, I don't know if you're forgetting, but I'm sure you know that you've stopped work on the Peljesian Bridge in the year 5.6.2010, who was in power, you know. The funds invested in the construction of the bridge, not the probe, the debate, 75 million, just 75 million in building that bridge. If you had any wisdom and politics you would not have the mayor in your support given those statements and wrote when we had a debate in Dubrovnik and when all the members or mayors of the HDZ stood on that side not to use the access road, not to go, but to ban, you prohibited exactly the running ferry of the Chamber-Briest. In a small investment today, we could have built access roads from the European Funds with that building permit. We will, we are so serious that we said we will not build a bridge because we knew there was no funds and now the Prime Minister is with the support of the European Community, that we will build a bridge because we will secure funds and nothing is rushing ahead of the ore, that is the real thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70719	Thank you too, dear colleague. A colleague of Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70720	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy. Well, here's after this report and the whole day's debate, no one can say that they don't care about the islands. But we have to be honest and say that this government isn't the only one that deserves it, but it's her before. However, it is commendable that when you look at the 2012 report compared to the 11th year, regardless of the economic crisis, there was no reduction and there was no non-compliance with the Island Act, but rather an increase. It's been said a lot, so I'd cut my discussion short, I'd look back on two things. There have been speeches today about how local self-government, as it refers to its islands that belong to, say, the city of Zadar, has been mentioned in what way today, we cannot expect as a local self-government all from the state. I'll tell you the Elafit Islands that belong in the Dubrovnik area, the way we think. There is, most cities have development agencies and these development agencies need to help local leaders, of course, to find funds. We have examples in Luci Šipanska when it comes to Mula, when it was the city-state relationship, it's one joint project that was. However, when you look at all these islands, they also need sewers and plumbing and they also need social content. The local self-government is closest, the mother is closest to the body. So local self-government is this, the city that needs first of all no matter how much they have, fiscally it is clear, but it needs to be managed to help its islands, I am telling you, for example, the Elafiti Islands that we are trying to really get some funding, not just waiting for the state, but applying to EU funds. Now it's all been one thing of course since we've been in the EU. Another thing I'd like to mention today. That is, I watched a little bit from the report of education and we can say from what it says and probably the truth that if we look at construction, rehabilitation and schools and sports halls and playgrounds that we can be somewhat satisfied about the very infrastructure itself, which certainly affects the demographic image tomorrow because other than the workplace, it is very important that there are kindergartens or schools somewhere. Also today, there has been talk of actually doubting that schools with a small number of students on islands will be abolished, it is said as if it were over, that this government abolishes such schools. However, I will return to my environment from which I come from, so I will tell you that Kolocep District School, Kolocep is one of the Elafiti Islands has one student. Next year's question is whether it's gonna be that one, probably will, but that's the question. And that's where one class department works, she has her class teacher, she has an English teacher, she has a believer. The city of Dubrovnik has to take care of this one student, he pays that the child can develop creatively, he pays, or provides a art workshop that is done by a professor of art culture. Or the island of Lopud which has three students, however, because of the specificity that they can't be all in the same class, they are in three classes according to it and they are covered by their education system. And here we have the island of Šipan, which, thank God, has a sufficient number of students, and it is a joy to all of us to have children on that island at least. So I say again, we're talking about the relationship of the city, the relationship of local self-government to its islands, and here we have subsidies and dance workshops in the afternoons and art, etc. Now back to what we've heard today, what we hear very often from the media, this government is ending these schools with a small number of students. However, the reconstruction of the network of schools and programmes is one of the government's nine long-term reform measures. However, by reconstructing the network of schools, we can't call shutting down, or abolishing, and rationalisation must exist because we have to ask that the issue of justification and pedagogical justification of existence, let's say schools that have one or two students, but this rationalisation will certainly take into account the demographic image of the island, therefore a specific analysis will probably be carried out for each school in order to obtain the right restructuring. When you look, no matter what you do on the island, it doesn't matter if you have 6 schools on one island, those 6 schools have 6 principals, in such a way you should rationalize, and here to leave life on an island where there are few students, it certainly won't be the end of such schools. Here, dear colleagues and colleagues, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70721	Thank you, too. Let's go get the replicas. Dear Representative Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70722	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague, you said that local self-government co-financed construction... So I also have to say that the town of Korčula co-financed the construction of a pool with 9 million kunas and counties 4, so without local self-government involved there wouldn't be a pool and this one, and I think it's an envious asset, a significant asset that was released into that facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70723	Replica response, respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70724	Thank you very much. Well, it is precisely the responsibility of every local self-government leader, or executive authority, to treat all those residents who are part of that local unit and where they are headed because unfortunately you have cases when they are small islands, it may be, then there is a small number of voters, so it does not worry, but they are irresponsible local self-government leaders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70725	Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70726	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I told Mr. Vice President in the replica that it's hard to pull parallels, but I'm stuck with the ear of your thinking about education on the islands and you've mentioned the abolition of schools that have fewer students, and I want to express concern in this place that the same fate awaits small schools in many areas, and it certainly is not a contribution to the development of a knowledge society, and it is not fair or fair, and we in the units of local self-government have made great efforts and in fixing these schools of small villages. We know that transport infrastructure in these rural areas is in very poor condition, the connection also, the carriers will not, so there is no talk of any equality, and mainly not of even development of the Republic of Croatia. That's what I'm thinking loudly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70727	Reply to the replica of the respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70728	My colleague Milinović, I don't know where you were, where you were sitting when I was talking, I said that the media said it was wrong today, that there were all the wrong allegations to get rid of those schools. That's not true. I said it was one of the government's measures, long-term reform measures in terms of financial consolidation, thus not said. Besides, I'm going to tell you now, I'm saying you're going to work probably, the analysis will have to be done, you're a doctor, you'll understand that. When you say that learning at school is not only taught, knowledge, skills and competences are adopted, but also the other part, which is social, pedagogical and other skills, so that child should also have friends, so he must have social skills. Now, there's another way we can help and those if we want to leave that school for one student, and that's a remote school. Therefore, it will not be left that way, and now we will end such schools because this is a responsible government that will surely think about every child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70729	Thank you, too. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70730	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, here I am just going to look back on this discussion of yours. And yes, you were saying that it's probably not going to happen that school is going to end and of course we all want that to happen. Namely, we who are not from the island, but come there as tourists, in that summer is beautiful, it's crowded, there's something going on, and when that summer is over, the islands are less or less empty, there's no one there, there's no children's laughter, you can't see middle-aged people or older people, but eventually the old people who keep some more stone houses. However, I think the responsible authority should work to co-finance both departures and young families and doctors and dentists. For example. My friend used to say to me on an island is, listen to him say when I get a toothache I can only handle it with my grandmother's doorman at home because by the time I get to Split, it doesn't hurt me or my tooth hurts or I'm in a coma anymore. That's what I'm talking about. But not this government that you say is responsible, I think there's not too much sensitivity towards young people and young educational staff in any way. I haven't heard from Minister Mrsic in particular from Jovanovic who should say here's a young professor or Minister Ostojić of young completed doctors, we'll co-finance you or co-finance your apartment there, you'll get some benefits that others don't have in some big cities then probably young people who went to study back to their island. But this way you won't. And of course it's fear when it's heard that it's going to close and that's what's holding it somehow and it's kind of a school.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70731	Thank you very much. As you speak well, you will never speak your tooth again. Reply to the replica of the respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70732	Thank you very much. Well, I don't know by what I know about dental care or care, I think it's pretty covered. And here's the other day we had a problem on Visu Island, there was a dentist missing, there was a competition, and he came in, and I don't see the problem you're pointing out. As for the job or return of people to the islands, you have the right to do so, but if you have read the report, you have seen that the state provides and is thus to preserve jobs that already exist or that can be employed. In addition, this government and the Ministry of Labour have a variety of programs that self - employment can go on and, of course, on islands only someone should start believing in themselves and not wait for someone else to give you something but to start creating ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70733	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Đurjica Plancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70734	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Your Honor, Assistant Minister. So the debate on this report is an opportunity for a kind of inventory of everything that the state does to improve living conditions on islands and to realise the strategic objectives set by the National Development Programme of the Island, and these strategic goals are, as soon as possible, to maintain life on islands and at the same time, preserve the harmony of their natural values. It is a small shame that only today we are discussing the 2011 and 2012 report, but I find the justifications in that it was only the beginning of 2012 that the reconstruction of the state administration was carried out and only then was a new sector for the islands at the Regional Development Department of the Ministry of Regional Development formed, and only then was it necessary to collect data from all the ministries for the production of this report. However, it is good that we have now been given the opportunity to remind ourselves of all the tasks of the state under adopted documents relating to the sustainable development of the island. And I'm happy to have a great interest in my colleagues in this subject. The annual report has been produced continuously since 2006 so we can learn from them that the state, and here we think of the ministries and the public sector, invests on average in the development of the island around 1.5 billion kuna per year. In particular, in 2011, a billion and 423 million kuna were spent, and in 2012. More than a billion and 777 million kunas, which also raises grants. I conclude that despite the economic crisis, the level of investment is retained and increased, which certainly encourages and commends it. Due to the methodology and simplicity of the display, it is quite difficult to specifically analyse and compare a number of presented data and activities across all components. Therefore, I will not mention more detailed data but refer to some segments of the report and make observations and suggestions from the aspect of the population of a larger conditionalally developed island. More than a third of total investment of waste in support of maritime transport as the most important segment in sustaining life on islands. The amount of these subsidies has risen in the last 4 years at about 380 million kuna per year. We islanders would say that it is not special enough given the winter conditions when fast ships do not sail, and often as these days neither ferry. But the modernisation of ships and the increase in the number of lines in recent years have been done really much, and the priority price measure for passengers and vehicles is very important. However, in this area, at least more should be done in such a way as to further reduce the price of transport of vehicles during the winter period because the ferry still sails, usually empty in winter, and cheaper transport for residents and especially for the owners is certainly necessary. Our efforts to achieve this have not so far yielded fruit. It is also necessary to fully implement the new Regulation on the benefits and prices of privileged transport as soon as possible in order to better control these rights and to be used only by those to whom they are intended. We see from the report that the structure of investment is changing and that the increasing participation of the public sector, especially Croatian and Croatian roads, has been reduced. This is the result of accelerated investment in municipal infrastructure especially in water supply and disposal facilities, which is our commitment to EU accession funds. It is indisputable that the state makes great efforts and continuously invests in almost all segments of life but it is difficult especially for those of us living on the island to assess and measure the concrete impact of these investments. Demographic indicators remain unfavourable, even on larger Central Dalmatian islands, while population growth is reported mostly by islands connected to the mainland. The age structure of the population is particularly worrying because the population is ageing. This means that efforts should be made to improve health and welfare conditions on the islands. As early as 2003, health homes were abolished on larger islands, and so far we have not been able to provide health care as we had previously. Although more than 600,000 kunas were invested in 2012 and large funds were invested in the establishment and equipment of telemedicine centres, the effects and measures have not yet been felt, and for each specialist review should continue to travel to land, often a link to the right to refund costs. In the process of reforming the health system specificity of the island... it is certainly necessary to treat and pay particular attention to it. It should be acknowledged that there is a major shift in the organisation and availability of emergency medical services and that we have not heard of any fatalities for years. In the new conditions where the use of as much of the European Union funds is imperative, islands need additional assistance, not only financially but particularly professionally. In general, for the preparation of the necessary documentation and application of projects of the island’s unit local self-government, they do not or may not hire the necessary experts because they simply do not exist on the islands. Young and educated don't come back. Therefore, the role of coastal counties and their development agencies in the preparation of these projects should be different, much more concrete and more active. It should also be noted that the major problem of unsettled cataster, land books, and island ownership is largely limiting factors in the process. On the other hand, islands have very valuable natural resources, and I particularly point out the most valuable seashore, but often do not manage them alone and thus do not make adequate revenues. I hope that the new Law on maritime good and seaports, which is in preparation, will bring better solutions for the benefit of the islanders, and that other regulations will change in this direction. At the very end, a little self-critic. The islands are indivisible, and by my judgment it is necessary to unite the functions and tasks of local self-government units on them. Here I mean joint strategic and spatial planning, joint activities, waste management, organisation of health and social care and many other functions on each island individually. It should not happen if we plan on an island or build several economic zones, sports halls, infirmarys, docks, and even as is the case on my island and airport. Unfortunately, this can only be changed by different legal solutions, for in my experience, there is still no awareness or willingness for such cooperation. Although, according to the development index, islands above the average of the Republic of Croatia, the need for further harmonisation of living conditions remains with those on land. State institutions, coastal counties and cities should work equally, but all island entities should also work together to find new, perhaps more effective measures to encourage sustainable development of the island. In this regard, I would support the opinions expressed that it is necessary to review and possibly amend the existing Island Act, which is neither applicable in any part of it. I support this report, and I am convinced that the government's active policy for the development of the island will continue, at least in its current scope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70735	Thank you, too, dear colleague. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70736	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues Plancic, you spoke about the traffic connection or about the isolation of our islands at a time of mostly winter when it is south or storm and about others to tell climate disasters that are proportional to the annual age in the Republic of Croatia. Well then I don't understand that when there was already a project Pelješac-kopno, and Pelješac belongs to the category of the island even though the peninsula is geographically described and it was this unfortunate Pelješac bridge that you have been refusing Kukuriku coalition as a project for almost two years. Now that Europe has said yours now you are suddenly great advocates of it, and you asked for the highway to go across Bosnian-Herzegovina territory through Herzegovina, or Neum. And secondly, from your quota and your political environment, there was a gentleman who proposed, who is currently the president of a national forum that proposed to connect our islands, especially those close to the mainland, for example. Zadar over to make more bridges and more islands connect the bridge with the mainland. Nobody talks about it today, not as wonderful as they'd say in Slavonia, so I'm interested in your opinion of such projects that might be, as someone said about the Pelješki Bridge expensive but very useful and would in any case contribute to reducing isolation. Here goes Ugljan and Pasman because they would be connected by land bridge, if we had a bridge of Zadar over.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70737	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative Đurđica Plancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70738	Well, dear fellow Grubisic, I don't think the problem of building the Peljega Bridge can be put in the context of what I was saying, the connection of the island to the mainland. For your information, I'm a countryman and none of me would be happier to build that bridge, but the conditions have obviously not yet been met. And as for that second bridge you mentioned to me, I would also be very happy if we all had, every island has a bridge, but unfortunately I'm also aware of the situation in which we live today, economically. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70739	My friend, you said everything when you replicated. Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70740	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Mrs. Plancic. I'll do it before I replicate what I immediately answered the line for. In 2009, the conditions for the construction of the Peljega Bridge were acquired in 2009. And if the government hadn't had as much money as planned in the 2012 dynamics, there wouldn't have been 400 million kuna to the county administrations that then invested on other people's property of the County Road Administration. But I... I'd like to tell you that the Marine Good Act, which is in the works, will help the islands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not if he's adopted like this. So I ask that you, as Mrs Ivčević said, insist that this law is not passed because it is harmful for the Croatian islands, it is harmful for both cities and municipalities and counties throughout the coast not only because it reduces revenues which under current law have units of local self-government since the concession of maritime goods, but in a different way regulates the issue of management of maritime goods which is increasingly centralized compared to the existing law that allowed the establishment of port administrations in certain cities and municipalities in the coastal districts. So it would be good if that law wasn't passed. And the long thing is, it forms a one-off agency based in Rijeka that should manage maritime well-being, and at the same time imagine a shut-down agency that is too important for us islanders, so at least the statement is the minister. I convey his position, it does not say in the law that the Split Agency for Public Line Coastal Maritime Transport will be shut down and that the agency in Rijeka for the management of maritime goods will be opened in order not to increase the number of agencies in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70741	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The reply to the replica of the Đurđica Plancic's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70742	Comrade Bačić, I am not as pessimistic as you about the solution that will bring us the new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. In fact, it is a law still under discussion and there will certainly still be talk about it, and I hope that the irregularities we have seen together will continue to work and to correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70743	Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70744	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Plancic, I agree with you that you need to keep your life on the islands. Of course in that sense, and with all this effort to make quality infrastructure, you also talked about available quality health care. Of course, I agree in that part too, and you have pointed to certain difficulties with regard to health care. But I want to tell you in some way that even in the continental part, many rural areas the same picture is even worse. For many rural hospitals, they have been looking for a doctor or dentist for years, and they cannot be found, unfortunately, no one is answering. There's another part where you're talking about negative demographic indicators. Believe me, it's also in rural areas. I'm from the constituency that I come from rarely which smaller rural environment, the municipalities that have positive trends. In my view, it would be most ideal for those two strategic branches of agriculture to be the strategic branch and tourism to be truly connected in the right way. But unfortunately, this first one I often talk about is pre-break. This tourism is unfortunately under better circumstances. So here's by comparing these two things I unfortunately have to say that in the continental part, there's a lot of major problems, mostly existential ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70745	Replica response, respected representative Gjurdzica Plancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70746	My colleague Milinkovic, I am sorry to hear that and I know and I am also aware that there are problems with health care and in the interior of the state. However, here I would like to point out to you, just for your information, the great difference that is present. So, when a patient from the island of Hvar has to perform a specialist examination, he must literally lose his entire working day. 'Cause he's got to leave the house at 4:00 in the morning to come to the 5 o'clock in the afternoon. And now what are the losses if you want to for the island's economy when a man actually loses his entire working day because of one examination that can take half an hour. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70747	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Honorable representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70748	Thank you, well-respected president, dear deputy and assistant minister, colleague and colleague. In fact, it would be a great pleasure to read this report if it were true, that the real islanders and the real islanders were invested as in 2011 almost 1 and a half billion kunas making the grants as credits and 25% more in 2012. Over a billion and 777 million kuna. But we've already heard that it's much lower and that's not exactly how the first numbers show up, and I'd be talking about a segment that hasn't already been talked about today. How much is invested for real islands and real islanders. What I mean by real islands and islanders is what I think my colleague, Ivčević, comes from Komiža and my colleague Boris from Rab. We can't even see them in this assembly during bad weather. In this report, when we read there are many projects, sports halls, schools, homes for the elderly to whom any of us can now sit, start a car and get there. So, at any time, day and night and any time. I think that every kuna invested in such projects is a kuna less for real islands and real islanders, and that's all the reason why going away, that is, missing on the island of youth, family and children. I don't blame any of the local self-government leaders because I am, and I would try to push any of my projects through. Surely these projects can be financed and why not just now that it is within that same ministry and the island administration, or this segment that protects the islands and the rest of Croatia, means co-financing, yes but not from this fund, and even more so when we see it in these reports. Unfortunately, some of these projects have brought more harm to children on islands than they benefit. For example. By building a school that is about six kilometers from the coast and has no connection between the head of local self-government to finance it from this fund puts these children from the island into such a network of schools. Of course, children are impractical, impossible, they go to another unit of local self-government, to another school, and someone has to pay for it. Since it is not in the network, the school is not financed by the county budget or the state budget. So I appeal to you that when you grant these funds to really be for the real islanders, those who are isolated from the weather, those who can't reach the doctor or the school when it's a bad time. I would remind all of us together and of this debate we had in the morning of the morning when we talked about projects and the withdrawal of grants from the European Funds. I think it would be much better if that one kuna instead of coming directly to the island in infrastructure, were to be invested in the project and then the project was to have hundreds or thousands of euros withdrawn and come to that same island and into our country. When we look at that section of the report, for example. We see and we rejoice, and I'll be proud to read that, for example. in the case of the regional development policy sector, investment in the business and tourism infrastructure of the grant scheme for IPA III business infrastructure. C we have one single county of Sibenik-Kninsk, one single project of the Prvic-Completional Centre Faustu Vrančić 9 million and 700 thousand kuna. I also have to thank and commend the ministry that has shown a lot of understanding, and this project has been successfully completed. It is still in phase and creating an even better image and for now the city of Vodice must and for every year separate about 5,000 kunas for normal functioning but we believe that as we have run for the project, it will only be sustainable. Life on the island is difficult and expensive, and if we all want and invest it is necessary to ensure as much normal life and as normal conditions as possible and therefore I would like to commend another measure introduced in 2011 despite the crisis, it is co-financed the costs of transporting municipal waste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70749	Thank you, too, dear colleagues. Miss Sumrak, your colleague has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70750	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I'd just like to remind you, you forgot another islander in the Parliament that's colleague Plancic from Hvar. But you were talking about projects, and I'd like to, and the islander is also a colleague of Bacic's, but, well, now that's something that was a little bit of an introduction. I wanted to talk and look back at the projects. You were talking about projects. For me, one of the very important in the reality of the projects that has been implemented since the 1990s is already in the Law on Islands, but here in 2007 I have to tell some of God's transparency is this project called the Croatian island product, i.e. the island product. By today we already have 409 such products from 19 islands, we have over 145 manufacturers, 11 eco manufacturers and we have 15 products that have geographical origin. What it means in reality for people from the island and what it means about their products. I am not going to list these products now because in Zagreb we enjoy them in particular at the time of the Christmas fair and in this way it is given to these producers, it is for the producers to make something and make money and to present their product. What I wanted to say was that in winter what's interesting, what's going on now on 8.3. will be a fair of island products where they will also perform over 19 of these, through producers from those 19 islands and what I find interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70751	Time's up, dear colleagues. Thank you very much. Replica reply, respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70752	Thank you very much. Well exactly the fifth assignment was in our town, in Vodice, in 2011 when he was 51 manufacturers and 87 products. What I have to notice is that next year in Hvar in 2013 there's a decline in that number. On Hvar we had 47 manufacturers with 79 products and then again on Korčula even less but we are all very proud of these products and we in our county are trying to do something that would encourage even more producers, bring promotion and sales of such products.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70753	That's how we exhausted the list of people reported for discussion. The final word will now be given by Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, the respected Jaksa Puljiz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70754	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable MPs, the MPs. After a long debate, I would first of all like to thank everyone for participating in a debate that has been very, very useful to us. I think it shows itself by this debate and the value of the obligation that stands in the law, which is that the Government is reporting to the Parliament on the effects of the implementation of the Island Law. And here I can immediately announce that we will be able to cover all areas of the Republic of Croatia with such specific, more detailed, high-quality reports so that all of our discussions concerning the development of certain areas of Croatia can indeed be as argumentative as possible. As far as the island is concerned, I have to stress the fundamental fact that is visible in these two reports, and in particular the amount of investment in the islands. Of course, the amount of investment is not the beginning and end of the story, but it also determines a lot, and the data clearly indicate that the amount of investment from public sources to islands has been increased, hence the increase of €353 million in 2012, i.e. the increase in 2011 is a significant increase of 1.77 billion to 1.42. It is true that most of that increase was the result of the increased credit rating of HABOR, but this data should also be compared with the fact that the amount of grants was increased, the truth slightly less, about 70 million more grants were invested in the crisis in 2012, a difficult financial year for the state budget, but there was still an increase in investment. On the other hand, the increase in HABOR credit ratings clearly states that economic activity on islands is in a relatively better situation than in the rest of Croatia, tourism as a light point of our economy, means that economic opportunities and potentials on islands are in a relatively better position than in some other areas where the impact of tourism as a sector is much smaller than, let's be objective, on islands where it is the basis of future growth and development. But now I'd like to look to the future in just a few words about the future island development policy. First of all, one is unquestionable, and this is that the islands will always have special concerns for the state, at least while the constitutional decree of the Republic of Croatia, which is why it is unquestionable, therefore the survival of the future Law on Islands, it will be, what is an open question and what we will put before you and all the other stakeholders is a question of the content of this law. So, I plan to open a debate on this law, we really agree that it is time to see it after 14 years of implementing this law which was good, which was not good. What's also a fundamental fact is that the islands of '99. When that law was passed and the islands today, they are not the same islands. In some things they are the same, which is a fact of geographical isolation, a large number of them, the largest number of them, but when we talk about socioeconomic opportunities, when we talk about the state of social municipal infrastructure, the situation is not the same and largely not the same thanks to the active role of the central state, the islands are in much better shape today than they were in '99. and we, indeed, and as a way of taking development policy towards islands, must also take into account this fact and look at it in this context of the common regional development policy. But also, let's be open, opportunities among the islands are still such that there are marked inequalities within the islands and today in the debate it has been mentioned several times and there are proposals of some new categorization that are also coming from this unquestionable fact that not all islands are in the same position, but today they are in some categorizations that are... at EU level, those islands that are bridge-crossed are not considered islands. So, in any case, future amendments to that law must take into account much more strongly that fact. There are some common problems for all islands, above all for those islands that are not bridged, but there are also undoubtedly great differences in both potentials and difficulties. We cannot start with the fact that despite some islands today, their local budgets are above the average of the Republic of Croatia, they still have a certain degree of difficulty, or an unequal position when we talk about investments. Namely, the very fact that you are geographically isolated even though you have had exceptional results from tourism leads you to increased costs. So, we must consider that regardless of whether it is some highly touristic environments such as Mali Lošinj, Rab, some other islands, the fact is that traffic isolation necessarily imposes increased costs and we must also consider that. And of course these costs are particularly expressed in those islands that do not have such strong economic potentials or have simply not yet been realised as these islands have been mentioned. So the policy will exist, the horizontal ones will be helping most of the island, first of all to bridge the problem of geographical isolation, the traffic connection is a permanent problem, some have solved the problem by bridging the bridge, but in most cases it will always be a lasting problem, we will hardly see a new bridge bridge crossing for an island in the near future, and that is a horizontal issue. But this horizontal question must be developed, also by a special system of measures that will address different islands in different ways in accordance with their different potentials, opportunities and problems. So here's the way I want to announce that we're going to consider all this when we come up with a new island law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70755	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have replicas, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70756	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy, you've confirmed what we, here during the morning, say that investment in islands is not the beginning and the end of the story and many laws that facilitate life on islands may not be financially supported as it is shown when we open some kind of project, infrastructure, etc. That's why I said it would be good to strengthen the position of the island in your ministry so we don't get the next example I just read today. The agriculture ministry presented a rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia with 16 measures to help Croatian agriculture these days. One of these measures No 13 focuses on areas and areas in the Republic of Croatia with natural constraints. And imagine that islands according to this programme are not spaces and areas of the Republic of Croatia with natural constraints. There is not one per me space in Croatia that can be measured within spatial limits such as islands. What am I saying? I would like to say that it is precisely to monitor and pay more attention to other laws and regulations that regulate the issue and the economy in the Croatian islands. In this regard, we said that the need to install an independent administration that can take care of islands in the way it was in 1995 when it was founded at the Ministry of Public Works is a centre for the islands, later it moved to the Office of the Islands, etc. So I think it is simply difficult to monitor the position of the entire regional development of Croatia, and it is easier when it is separated and segmented and also on islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70757	Replication response, deputy deputy minister Jacksa Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70758	Dear Representative, you will certainly be happy that in the partnership agreement as a basic document that regulates the use of all EU funds, it is highlighted as a special specific Croatian geographical isolation of the island, which means that we are creating a framework so that we can invest EU funds in solving this problem in different ways.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70759	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Box, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70760	I thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, you said there was a significant increase in the allocated funds in 2012 compared to 2011. You are right when we look at the total mass of funds especially when the funds are summed up from HBOR, but the total amount allocated from the state budget is significantly lower than in 2011. And this significant increase in him was said by fellow Jerolimov in an individual debate for our Zadar County when we compare your ministry, Ministry of Culture, Agriculture, Roads, water only from your ministry we have an increase of two million, and the total significant increase is minus 20 million in 2012 compared to 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70761	Replication response, deputy deputy minister Jacksa Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70762	We are dividing investment into two types in this document, so the grant investment, regardless of what public source it is, whether it is a public enterprise or whether it is a ministry, is a public source. Other types of investment are HBOR's credit assets. There has been an increase in both of them. Much larger in HBOR's placements, but also in public sources, an increase of 70 million kuna was recorded in 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70763	New replica and respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70764	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy, we will discuss the Report on the Island Act for 2013 very quickly in a few months, it is a passing point. And three things went out here, the question is, what about EIB 3's loan and tell us until the end that or not, it stays or disappears? Second point, will you change the Island Act? We would like to bring it all together by consensus to create a draft, to look at it and to be a ten-year period again in which we will have a good story about the Croatian islands, we are willing to participate because if we submit it as an opposition we know how it ends. And the third question is the question of what is being said today, which is the climate of the budget, will you at least use you or your minister your influence and the issue of subsidies i.e. possible card-gathering to the island population, and put everyone else out of the way because it will certainly appear in the rebalancing unless your influence and your suggestions thus occur?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70765	Replication response, deputy deputy minister Jacksa Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70766	As regards the EIB, the programme continues to be implemented in this year, and in the next 2015, we are realistically funding such investments thoroughly from EU funds. It is also the government's policy to finance EU funds thoroughly in the future in 2015. There may be discrepancies, but that will then be the government's decision to make exceptions for certain areas for some specific reasons, but in principle everything financed primarily at local and regional level should be thoroughly financed from EU funds. It's too big and too much money and the cheapest money. So you're talking about the benefits of the EIB loan but there's no cheaper money than the grant from EU funds. And as for the law, of course, we accept every support and initiative and when we go into law-making we will certainly invite all the participants to make their contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70767	Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70768	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Deputy, I was pleased to hear about these effects made on the islands and on the quality of life and what the Island Act contributed to, and then you mentioned the Regional Development Act and that there would be a report. Of course, we are interested in a balanced regional development because unfortunately we witness in many of our rural environments that it is such an imbalance and such a breakdown that it cannot be described at all. You know what I'm talking about, I'm always talking about that strategic branch of agriculture. But another thing, now I'm going to talk about tourism where you said tourism has extraordinary potential, it does. Thank God and thank God this manifests well on the islands. But imagine now in the strategy we discussed tourism, until 2020 continental tourism is almost neglected. I have come forward several times in my discussions here in this sense, I believe that there is very good potential in the tourist offer in the continental part, and that it is neglected and neglected. That's what you should consider. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70769	We've exhausted the list of replicas and responses to the replica. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70770	We move to a decision on: A/ Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2011 and B/ Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2012. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2011 is hereby adopted and the report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2012 is hereby adopted." Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find the conclusion accepted by 107 votes in favour and 2 abstentions. That's what we're done with today's work. I'm interrupting the session. We will continue on Tuesday, with the report on the work of the HRT Programme Council and implementation of the programme principles still on the agenda. Comrade Shucker reporting for word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70771	My colleagues and colleagues, I know you're in a hurry to support Ivica Kostelic, and I'd only ask you for 30 seconds. The HDZ Club opposes the debate being united, and I ask that all four reports go individually. No body has ever brought that united debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70772	Now, that's decided on the agenda, and I don't intend to open a debate about it. Thank you. I'll see you Tuesday. Session interrupted at 12.28 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70773	And we continue to work on the established agenda. It is now up to you: - Final bill amending the Law on Theatres, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 617 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You've received reports from these working bodies. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Culture Minister Berislav Šipus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70774	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Very short on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Theatres, with a final proposal for a law. It is proposed to amend the Law on Theatres and to settle the following issues. Indetermination of the law in the event of a national theatre or a director of a public theatre, public theatre groups shall appoint two or more founders by agreement and the agreement cannot be reached. It is proposed to give authority to the authorities who exercise supervision to appoint the acting director of the public theatre and the public theatre family, i.e. the Ministry of Culture, or the Minister of Culture for National Theatres, the City Office for Culture of the City of Zagreb and the offices of the state administration in the districts of public theatres and families. The following is set out for national theatres that the National Theatre's Indentation, on a proposal from the Theatre Council, appoints and resolves the representative body of the founder, i.e. the agreed representative bodies of the Founder when the National Theatre has several founders, and confirms the Minister of Culture. Therefore, if, on the date of expiry or termination of the term of office, there is no agreement between the representative bodies of the founder of the national theatre, to which the Minister of Culture has expired or suspended, and nominates the acting representative of the national theatre without having conducted a public competition, which performs its duty until the appointment of the national theatre intensifier or performer of the duty of national theatre intensifier by the founder. In the second direction, public theatres and public theatre families are prescribed that the director of the public theatre and public theatre family, whose founders are of the county, then the City of Zagreb, cities and municipalities, appoints and resolves the representative body of the founders on the proposal of the theatre council. If two or more founders cannot agree on the appointment of a director of a public theatre and a public theatre family, i.e. as acting director, priority shall be given to the founder or founders with majority stakes who may appoint a director of a theatre institution on a proposal from the theatre councils. However, if no appointment is made then the appointment of the acting director shall be carried out by the Office of State Administration in the Countys, that is, in the City of Zagreb, because it will be the City Office responsible for cultural affairs. Finally, it is prescribed that the director of the public theatre, the founder of the Republic of Croatia, is appointed and resolved by the Minister of Culture, and in the event that the Republic of Croatia is co-founder with at least a share of the minister of culture, with a previously obtained opinion from co-founders. If, on the other hand, the Republic of Croatia is co-founder with units of local and regional self-government that have a majority share, the Director of the Public Theatre shall appoint and resolve the representative body of the founders with a majority stake in the proposal of the Theatre Council, with the opinion of the Culture Minister previously obtained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70775	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, colleague Krešimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70776	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable representatives of the ministry, Mr. Shipus, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Theatres, with the final proposal of the law, for the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek. In fact, by reading the text but also what happened in the past few weeks, we all know well that this legal solution is about to change because of the City of Osijek. Osijek-Baranja County i.e. for Croatian National Theatre in Osijek. So here's a few sentences about it. The town of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County are co-owners of a 50:50% theatre and stand out about 12 million kuna per year for the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek. What is important is to highlight some chronology, in order to make it more clear that these amendments to Article 25, which is important, and it was seen several months ago when the law was changed because of Zagreb, and when individuals in the Croatian Parliament and stressed as well as the president of our club Mr. Salapic, that the law will soon be changed because of Osijek. This was also emphasized by Mr Mesic and other members i.e. MPs in the Croatian Parliament. There has been a lot of debate, but looking at these changes then changes certainly need to be done with the profession, not only the legal profession but also with people who deal with culture and cultural art. What I mean is that the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek is almost 107 years old and has never been named V.D. from Zagreb. An intensifier is not an intensifier, except it's been confirmed. We had this in the past, but if someone thinks it should be appointed from Zagreb to the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek, I think it is a bad political decision. And this should be a decision in the interest of culture, a decision in the interest of the Croatian National Theatre because the Croatian National Theatre is owned by 50% of the city, 50% of Osijek-Baranja County. Just one little chronology. Namely, Osijek-Baranja County and the Assembly of Osijek-Baranja County confirmed Mr Schneideira for V.d. Intentant. Likewise, the Theatre Council made the same proposal. So, members of both the city and the Osijek-Baranja County with the fact that the mayor of Osijek writes to the respected Minister Andrei Zlatar Violic on December 12th 2013. Dear Minister Zlatar Violić, due to continuing the continuity of the work of the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek, I agree with the proposal of the Theatre Council of the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek to continue with the activities that will ensure the smooth work of the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek and lead to the call for tenders for the selection of individuals. What is clearly said in this letter, as confirmed by the Osijek-Baranja County, but also by the Theatre Council before it normally looked at all the requirements that arrived at the 48th meeting of the Theatre Council on 11 December 2013. Also, members of the Theatre Council unanimously accepted the amendments and the proposal, and reached a decision and conclusion of the Theatre Council of the Croatian National Theatre Osijek are proposing to the founders of the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County to be appointed as head of the responsibility of the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek. It's all important for the introduction, because the only county in the Republic of Croatia that separates 12 million kunas and which even finance the National Theatre is the Osijek-Baranja County and should be congratulated on that. We all remember the Homeland War when the theater burned down. But thanks to Mayor Branimir Glavas and donors, the theatre has been decorated and renovated since 1996, the founders of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County are equal to 50:50%. Looking at today's changes and the suggestions that we are suggesting in the HDZ, we believe that they are not good and that they do not lead to a final solution. For this reason, we also propose an amendment to the Final Bill on Amendments to the Law on Theatres, which is being adopted in an emergency procedure and because of 208 employees in the Croatian National Theatre but also because we do not have a director of drama and opera at the moment. In fact, we suggest that Article 25(4) is changed and said. If, in accordance with the section 3 of this article, after the end of the term of office, no national theatre agent, appointed a new national theatre agent, i.e. the performer of the national theatre's identity, the national theatre in which the term of office has expired will be resolved by the Minister of Culture, and the function of the national theatre's agent will continue to perform the present instance without the public tender. If, for any reason, the function of the performer of the duty of the present intensifier cannot be done by the performer of the duty not to read the entire amendment, then the resolution ministry will appoint a V.D. Director. Explanation. The government's proposal, in the above-mentioned case, takes over the founder's post as culture minister. However, this proposal does not, in most cases, question the normal functioning of the national theatre. Because so far, the intensifier continues with regular activities until the election of V.D. the nature or nature of the programme and financial meaning and the possible legal vacuum does not arise with the new person as acting as the applicant. In order to point out that the usual practice in other institutions is that the function of the performer in the event that it is not appointed in time carries out the present ingenuity until the appointment of a new intensifier or performer. Only in case of force majeure, and it may be death, disease or something else then it is justified for the ministry to appoint V.D. Intentant. However, it is important to stress that we have in the city of Osijek, means a coalition of several parties, and it is certainly difficult to agree between them on a possible V.D. I'm an intensifier. Because it is known that in Osijek there is a coalition of SDP, HNS, HSU, HDZ, Djapic, Labourists etc. Therefore, it is very difficult to match the name. But what is important must work and we think it is bad when the mayor does not talk to the union president, Mrs. Chicken. Therefore, these are important moments, and especially important is the moment of working the payout and everything else that belongs to the activity and district of the work of the inspector himself. I mean, I don't want the situation to repeat itself, and we're changing the law again in four months. Therefore, in this case, the cultural public has come to their feet. It wasn't exactly the voice of the profession, and what he's trying to say is that all you have to do is listen to the legal profession, go to the emergency procedure of amending the law. What is much more important to us in Osijek, it is that we nominated ourselves for the capital, the European capital of culture after our cities are friends of Pecuh, and Maribor. It is very important for us to have this very perspective on the future of 2020, and that is why we are working on a cultural strategy. That's what's missing from our resolution ministry. Therefore, in that part, we expected help to be the European capital of culture, and there are many reasons why Osijek should be the European Capital of Culture in 2020. Therefore, it is an important strategy, and it is important to help Osijek to do so. But looking at these changes that are trying to impose v.d. The intensity is what is not good, and we have a man who has stabilised the financial business of the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek. We remember in 2009 that it was 4 million and 121,000 kuna. Mr Schneider has worked for 39 years in Osijek's Croatian National Theatre and the results have been observed during this four-year period as well as the 2010 Croatian Academy Awards for directorial performances, dramas, for the main female role, for the best artistic achievement, for the male role in this particular work, but also in 2011 at Marulic's Days we also received awards as well as the 2012 Croatian Unterstadt award for best directorial achievement, for blackography. So we have a man who's been doing a very good job and it wouldn't be good and a legal vacuum would be created if it insisted on this solution, i.e. on this proposal from the Resolute Ministry. If that were indeed so, it would be certain that Article 7 should also be amended so as to exclude the county from being the founders at all. A unit of regional self-government, the county that can be the founders of the theatre. What I also want to highlight is the city and the County Parter funding a 12 million kuna theatre. I would like to see more important assistance from the ministry in particular in the programme work, and then it would be seen that it is taking care of the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek. Therefore, there is a need for more significant funds that the ministry would focus on this activity if the ministry thinks it is necessary to appoint a VD intensifier, then best to provide a resolution ministry and finance the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek. Therefore, enough of these awards are enough that the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek has realized and there is no reason not to support this work further and that the HNK continues in Osijek to achieve the observed results and the VD Indent has the only task other than the functioning of the HNK in Osijek to carry out the competition, that the theatre council consisting of two representatives of the city, two counties and at the moment is the problem that the worker's representative has not been elected but I believe that this will also happen soon, which will then be selected after the competition by the new indent and the relevant ministry will confirm it or not in 60 days. This should be imperative for the coming time precisely because of the normal functioning of the HNK in Osijek but also because of actors, but also because of the 60 thousand people who look at performances at the annual level in the city of Osijek. So I appeal to my colleagues on both the left and the right. Look at this amendment, I don't see any reason why they wouldn't accept it because it's perfectly normal that in other institutions not only to the National Theatre but also to other institutions to act in the same transitional way that the present intensities should be vd in this period until the competition and the election of a new intensifier so as to make the theatre work uninterrupted and I've listed which references, the persons who have done so so so far. I think it would also be good for perhaps some extraordinary situations in some other theaters other than not the gods of death, disease or other prevention, that a person cannot fulfil the obligations that are important, which is precisely the functioning of national houses or the HNK. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70777	Thank you. A clear Mesic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70778	Dear colleague. They were entitled to those quoted in the opening part of your exhibition that very soon we would have amendments and additions to the Law of Theatre when you mentioned it. You also said it could be a problem when there's a lot of parties. You know, the 2006 law. The Law on Theatres had in its essence the need to negotiate. And you will remember that by the last year we have never had so many conflicts about Croatia over the associated appointment of leading people, and whether there was a local government of one party, that the government in the Ministry and Government was another party, they can list dozens of such examples except in cases where there were indeed proposals that could not meet even the most basic criteria. It was somehow the essence and thought of the guidance of this law that we have with the amendments and additions of 4 months ago and now we have completely derivated and the only real solution that would be comprehensive, which would not concern directly only the HNK in Osijek, which is the trigger for these changes and actually the work on the new Law on Theatres, the whole new legal solution, which is something that would get practically 100% support and professions and people who are dealing with this culture sector and I think we've lost a very valuable time, practically two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70779	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70780	Thank you very much. I also read a stenogram from last session, so I saw that you too had warned about what was going to happen, but what is important to point out, about what happened in the HNK in Osijek, this is also happening because of the spite of the Master of Legal Science and Mr Djakic, the President of the City Council, who did not want to call a meeting after one third of the council and said that I will not call her, we will rather change the law. And that's why we're sitting here today for Master Ante Djapic and that coalition that said I'm going to change the law more easily than I'm going to call a session, it's been 15 days plus 8 days to call her mayor. Today I and Minister Bauk talked to him and sent him a memo calling her because we know that there are reasonable people in the city council who would just support this initiative that a man who has prizes, a man who proposed and a theatre council, a man who was confirmed by the Osijek-Baranja County Assembly to continue his work. So if this is how it's going to change the law because of someone's stubbornness, then I think it's bad, it's not in the interest of culture, or theaters, and I don't think it's the Ministry of Resolution, but I think it's necessary to have a full picture of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70781	Igor Coleman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70782	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. There's only one thing I'm going to mention in this replica. My colleagues of the Bubalu have been understated by one inaccuracies, so I wouldn't want to go wrong in this debate. He found that it was about the appointment of an indent in Zagreb, which is not true. No one here, no one appoints an intensifier anywhere, but appoints, or sets up a V.D. In case the founders of the theatre cannot agree. The intensity of the law is that after many years we finally solve the problem of making decisions in a situation where the decision cannot be made in the way that the law, like this, rules out. So there is no one to appoint an intensifier, either in Zagreb, or in Osijek, or in Rijeka, or anywhere else under this law. No one prevents the founder from making arrangements tonight, tomorrow or at any time at all, and from entering into the provisions introduced by this law at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70783	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70784	Thanks a lot, buddy. I do not believe that my mistake was subsidized, but I was talking about a law that was passed a few months ago when it came to Zagreb and it was really done for Zagreb. These changes are being made today because of Osijek, and I want to confirm that again, precisely because of the appointment of V.D. An intensifier at Osijek Theatre, and I said it was confirmed by both the theatre council and the county assembly, but it's not a deal between coalition partners because there were 9 and 8, there are 7 of them today. So, I've listed these coalition partners, so I'd like it if the founders agreed, but I said whose assessment is, who's stubborn in that situation, who said that it's easier to change the law than to call a session of the City Council and solve the problem in a second. So if we're going to change the laws because of someone's stubbornness, that's not good. I mentioned V.D. In Osijek, there has been a lot of media speculation about this in recent weeks, and I find it precisely the most painless, without political press and political calculations or political setting that the easiest and most painless this way is done in other institutions, that this appointment, i.e. I don't know how long it takes to conduct the competition itself. I think it's best for theaters, except in case of illness, death or what we've stated in the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70785	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70786	Thank you. You said, I'll quote, if someone thought that HNK's identity should be named from Zagreb, it's a bad political message, and you thought of v.d. Intentant. I don't think it's just a bad political message, it's practically harassing procedure, it's a hostage situation for the Croatian Parliament where I am politically interested and divided into certain political prey actually subjectes the Croatian Parliament to this debate in these late hours. When it comes to this very gracious and benevolent amendment that you have submitted on behalf of our club, I think, frankly, that it has been a will, that such a thing could be arranged by agreement and without that amendment, but I think so far expressed by the political will that the increase in GDP in Croatia in this year, rather than the proposer of this law will accept the amendment that we propose. It is an incredible situation that within a few months because of the ad hoc situation, the law is changed from reading to reading, and that we are not talking about the specificity of this theatre, in general this situation, that it is one of the few public institutions that the state does not finance, funded by the local community, but the state takes the right to arbitration around management functions. In many public institutions, it's just a different case that the state is financing, and management rights are left to local communities, and here exactly the other way around, which is actually a more interesting case. I think you're best off on the trail, that whoever thinks to manage, let him choose and pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70787	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70788	Thank you very much. My colleague Djurovic, I must admit that I would like to see GDP rise this year, and then it would probably be more of a cultural separation, especially for the HNK in Osijek. You mentioned the hostage situation and the distribution of prey, so here we have a complex situation because a lot of political parties in the coalition can very hard come to an agreement, but therefore we have proposed a good transitional solution, not only for Osijek but for all other national theatres, just so that it goes the most painlessly, only in the event of death or disease, that it doesn't happen. But it is important to stress, for example in Croatia we have a problem of INA or the ownership structure of INA, and now between Croatia and Hungary should come Germany to arbitration, I said the other day. So there's no need to arbitration, except in the event of extraordinary circumstances, and that could be death or some higher power. Therefore, we seek this transitional solution, with the most painless solution, to conduct a tender for the indent, and then the ministry will decide whether to confirm it or not, it has happened so far. We had a situation in 2009, the minister was Mr. Mesic, I remember, Mr. Ljudić was, he was working in HNK, but we found a compromise solution again. Therefore, I think that a compromise solution can be found today, and this amendment is precisely seeking a compromise solution, a solution that can come into effect immediately tomorrow, and that Mr. Schneider can sign the salaries, that he can do all the work he has the results for, and who will be the intentant, who will depend on the city, the county, the worker's representative, and ultimately, on the ministry's decision, let's leave the decision to those in charge, let's not arbitate from Zagreb who will be v.d. If that's not necessary, in this case it's not necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70789	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Jasen Mesic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70790	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate. I tried to count all the changes and additions we've received in the last two years from the Ministry of Culture, I haven't arrived. I will repeat this every time as long as it is so, whenever I go out for this pay phone, I can't understand that in more than two years, there is not a single complete law other than the Law on the Foundation of the Croatian House which has practically several articles but exclusively amendments and additions to the law. And these amendments and additions to the law refer to 80% of the selection and appointment of leading people from the Media Strategy of the Cultural Development Strategy announced by the minister when she came to the ministry and we as the opposition welcomed the initiative, not a trace or a voice, from the media even less. Just changes and additions to the law. I really can't and we can't understand this way of conducting cultural policy. now at least let us go with these changes and supplements before problems than every time they come to the Croatian Parliament when the problem arises as in this case about the HNK in Osijek, regardless of what 4 months ago we warned that it would happen. The same colleagues were here at the Croatian Parliament. When all these laws are passed, when all these amendments and additions are adopted systematically, there are some things that happen during these amendments and additions. No quality public debate has been conducted in either the first or these amendments. To the direct question, the minister answers that this is a legal problem that should only be addressed by lawyers in the Law on Theatres. Where these decisions are the cultural policy decisions a couple of exellances about what will arise behind them that they have if you want direct implications after and on a particular cultural product, in this sense in theatre art, direct. The lawyer must write here what an expert or a certain representative of cultural policy tells him. Well, it's not up to a lawyer to mix the articles of the law in this sense than to be told by those in charge of cultural policy, because by that logic, if we set up some things like that, we need more lawyers in the Ministry of Culture and less culture experts. It's just not like that. In addition, the existing law as I said in the replica was set up so that interested parties would, if you will, also founding forces to agree. Because if there is no agreement, you will be asked a question of funding sooner or later, as colleagues from the HDSSB have already announced. Each cultural institution rests on as many pillars of funding as possible and is more stable and independent and can be more committed to action in cultural directions. As soon as you reduce the right of one party to participate and be as equal as you automatically endanger and its moral and legal obligation to actually finance it. It was never that if a legal and public debate was conducted when it was carried out on the website of the Ministry of Culture it was called there participation in the debate of the interested public, if I am not well, not a single remark in any amendments and additions we have had so far in two years has been accepted as no single amendment to those laws except the last time I think the distinguished representative Ronko on behalf of the club proposed an amendment to the Law on the Dubrovnik Walls, no one. Even so, try to remember in the last not five years during the term of office of Mesic, the Bishop, try to remember since 1996 how many times we've had a situation like this when we chose any indent in any HNK. from the non-confirmation situation of Slobodan Šnyder at the end of the 1990s at the time of the first term of Minister Biskupić until 2011 when we had another non-confirmation case we had in no situation in any situation where you had mixed combinations of authorities either at local level or at government level such latent conflicts as we have in the last two years. As far as this is concerned, there is something called the electoral code, also a manifesto in the status of artists adopted by UNESCO and there are resolutions adopted by the EU parliament saying "that the implementing artists and organisations representing them must be involved in the development of decision-making policies and their implementation at all levels". There has been no adequate public debate on these amendments and additions. When the Minister of Culture announced a strategy with its associates, more than two years passed, there are certain partial strategies on the website of the Ministry of Culture that were adopted earlier, let's say the Strategy on Archival Activity, the Strategy on Economic Use of Cultural Heritage, the truth only exists on the website of the Ministry of Culture but is not implemented at all. Personally, I think it's a matter of certain incompetence of the people who took over those corridors within the Ministry of Culture to carry them out. In addition, no other strategies exist, only amendments and amendments to the law, and what is proposed in the public debate is never accepted and the amendments are never accepted. I cannot and cannot read from this any excessive cultural policy and what it wants to achieve. After four months ago we had a situation that for the first time practically in a hundred years we found ourselves without intensities in HNK Zagreb, almost four competitions, two of which failed, two of which were withdrawn because they were not completed, with the situation where again we had the possibility of practically rebelling employees at the theatre who could not then realise their salary, and the deal with the mayor, and then making peace with the Mayor of Zagreb. Instead of that, when the Cultural Development Strategy was announced, the second week put on the website of the Ministry of Culture a preliminary public debate on the Law on Theatre for which the unisonic profession considers it necessary to go into the making of a new law. When the past was passed, this 2006 law lasted almost 4 years for the public debate process, reconciliation and solution so that the law could be passed. Almost four years. The Law on Theatres is otherwise considered one of the most complicated laws in the cultural sphere in all European countries. An extremely complicated area. There is no explanation that this was not possible because of the Labour Act or the Law on Institutions because this is about lex specialis and in special cases such law is always the first to apply and it is stronger than the general rules. In addition, since the Government is working in parallel with the Labour Act, the adoption of new provisions and the new Law on Theatres would be more of an argument for work and the Labour Act and as such would help the whole story. There are indeed exceptional problems in theatre houses in the Republic of Croatia. If it does not go into this, it will be even bigger, and these amendments and additions to the Law on Theatres will not be the last. I told the board of colleagues who would have the next problem in a few months, in which city. We can't see and we can't understand the real reason why it didn't start two years ago when it was announced as a key position, by us justified. In addition, recently it came from the Ministry of Culture to announce that there is a competition for an HNK intent in Zagreb, if I am not mistaken, with the fact that in September, at the end of September, in previous changes and additions that it was said that a representative of the employees would enter the theatre council. This practice has not existed in this law since 1984, but at the Croatian National Theatre Council in Zagreb, they have been beside representatives of the city and ministry and representatives of drama, ballet and opera so that neither those appointed by the ministry nor those from the city can have a majority without the profession but that their proposals must also support the profession so that they can pass through the theatre council. This time, it said, they must not be representatives of art segments within the theatre but must be representatives of employees, and now they are going to the competition or at least so announced where it was simply not done, but it is going with the old council, which means that the competition has been announced in accordance with the old law, which also sent this ministry to change and supplement at the end of September and has gone to an amendment to this legal provision, which is practically out of mind. It means you don't stick to your changes and supplements that were brought four months ago and all the time. My colleagues and colleagues, I don't believe that anyone from this pay phone when they talk about this is trying to say that they want bad to the Croatian Theatre. I don't think that's what the ministry's colleagues want. I believe they want it well. But I don't see any rational and political reason, for a professional reason, why they don't put on the Ministry of Culture's website tomorrow before voting these ad hoc re-changes and additions to cut the situation in Osijek, but tomorrow they open a preliminary debate on the Law on Theatre,... a professional association advises it. This is also advised by the opposition clubs, and many colleagues in the cultural debates end up pointing out. What's that got to do with us, and what's that gonna do to anybody but help? We also have a situation here that in cases where public theatres that already have either the county majority or the city or municipal majority in ownership rights can appoint a director of the public theatre with the previous opinion of the Minister of Culture, which means that some city hall will have to ask for a positive opinion from the Minister of Culture before it chooses an intendant. What if he doesn't? It says here if you don't get an opinion within that time limit and then there goes the appointment. What if the opinion is negative and the assembly still votes against the opinion of the ministry of that and that candidate. If that is the case, and if this is theoretically possible, and in this case it is really quite paradoxical that the ministry interferes in the Osijek case, if at the same time opens the possibility that in other cases the founding rights or states are in the minority to appoint it and regardless of what opinion they were. We again appeal to the opening of a public debate about the Law on Theatres, and I think we're going to get into a lot less problems and dubiosis and debates about these terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70791	Igor Coleman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70792	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. He says that the existing law forces an agreement which may be true unless it forces it. As we can see from the accompanying example mentioned by colleague Bubalo of the Osijek Theatre, in which he obviously does not force an agreement. And to get back to the topic of tonight's debate and this law, that's exactly what this is about. So when the existing law does not force an agreement, when this agreement cannot be reached, then there must be a solution to these amendments and amendments to the laws that we are talking about tonight, and that is actually all that is there tonight is the point of this debate and this law. Maybe he's forcing a deal, maybe a force. But in situations where this force is not enough, it is necessary to find a solution to the situation and that is the solution the ministry is offering tonight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70793	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70794	Yeah, it's better the way we've had the changes and additions in September that we have practically 4 competitions of which 2 are held and cancelled, 2 is not prepared until the end, 4 times the Theatre Council proposes one solution and the ministry every time eskiates that solution. Of course that doesn't encourage a deal. I'm trying to explain this to you because of the financing pillars. This is the basis of the independence of cultural institutions. I lost my throat in the City Assembly of Zagreb to explain to people that it is better for the Museum of Contemporary Art to be financed from both the city and the state and if anyone else can become involved in the financing. Today they barely close the financial structure because they need millions just for heating. And that's the key to everything. And you always have a fuse that the ministry at the end of the HNK has to give confirmation of the intent. You always have the ability to correct and some kind of articulation of your cultural policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70795	Miss Plancic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70796	My friend Mesic, you've actually specifically called me on the line. In your presentation, you specifically invited all of us present to remember, which is why you insisted on any disputed situation that took place in the term of Minister Bishop or perhaps yours, in which you sought the consent of the Ministry of Culture, and that there was some imposition of a solution. Well, here I thought of a situation that occurred during my term in Old Town, Hvar, which occurred after the inclusion of the natural heritage monuments and cultural heritage of the Old Town Field Management Agency on the UNESCO list. That is exactly what happened when your ministry, using various measures, was allowed, so it continued to skip and refused to accept in the public tender selected by the Management Board of the proposed director of the agency. At the end of the long-term procedure, you succeeded and the director became a member of the HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70797	Thank you. Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70798	No, I was when I was talking about theaters. No, no. Yeah, I was really talking about theaters. I even mentioned the Free Shynder case until eleven, until Mucali, I even said it. I won't disagree with you. That was before my term what you're saying. What I can say for the Old Town Field if you are already, if you are doing a huge job, has been done by the Ministry of Culture along with you. I think we've worked very well together, very professionally and we've been trying to do it for some improvement let's say the whole area and Starigrad. A huge job, a huge job was done to enroll the Starigrad Age in the UNESCO list. It took a good three years with great financial resources, hiring the best experts we could and with your support as local administrations and self-government. I was talking about theaters here. I wish we had such an engagement in the ministry about the enrollment of certain cultural goods on the UNESCO list, whether material, whether immaterial. I wish we had such a presentation of our cultural heritage to the outside as we had at the time you mentioned. It would be very good for any particular local environment, whether for the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, that's not the case for now. I'd like it to be different in the future. We will certainly welcome it as we have welcomed the latest entries on the non-real list of UNESCO heritage and congratulated the Ministry of Culture on the work done, because I think it is something that will remain for a long time and is worth welcoming. But I'm really telling you when I was talking here, I was talking about theaters. So, from the unconfirmed Free Schneider to the nonconfirmation of Mr. Mucal...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70799	Thank you very much. Ivan Klarin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70800	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr Mesic, you are normally always guilty of SDP and the HNS coalition government. HDZ is always amnesty from that story. I will only ask you if you know the case of the theatre in Sibenik where today HDZ Mayor Mr. Buric was at war with Director Nero Gojanovic, and in 2009 when Neru Gojanovic was proposed as head of the Sibenik Theatre then HDZ had a majority in the council and disobeyed SDP's proposal to appoint Mrs. Senka Bulic and today Mr. Buric blames who, blames the SDP. So do you in HDZ forget all the local problems and state problems and the general problems you've made in this society. I mean really amazing, Mr. Mesic really amazing. Take a look around Croatia, in the county and in the cities and you will see what a mess your mayors are doing in theatres all over the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70801	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70802	Our mayors don't act in theaters so they don't make those mistakes you said, I don't know, I guess you're often in the theater, so then you know that. I remember you very well, colleague Klarin. I remember so well, you want me to list on Murter all the projects you've done just for the protection of your heritage, I can list them for you almost one, if you want. I'm terribly well-remembered. As for Mrs. Senka Bulic, as regards Mrs. Senka Bulic, dear colleague Klarin, I appointed her director of the Split Cultural Summer Drama Programme, with the same event was opened by my colleague, Bauk, who was the representative of the President of the Republic. So it's not true that HDZ would have any problems, it's a time when it's... was Mr. Nikša Baljeza and I also welcomed the appointment of a new indent who was appointed by the minister in Split when we were Maestro Tonci when he was appointed, when the situation in Split was solved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's not true. As for the cities in which the Croatian National Theatres are now located, there is no HDZ city in power, none of these HDZ cities are in power. So I'm really not amnesting anyone, I'm just talking about this particular problem, and I'm not thinking of amnesting anyone, but I'm really trying to raise awareness of this change and supplement it to the least possible extent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70803	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70804	I'm sorry. I can't find an article for the first time in two years. I'm using a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You, Mr. Mesic, have now offended me. [[Intruder Zgrebec: But you must find an article.]] So, an insult to my colleagues because you told me in a joke that I've never been to the theater or to visit enough theater. So now you're making fun of it and you wanted to humiliate me based on my replica that I said and which was justified. Don't insult me. You may go more than me to the theater, but don't tell me I never visit the theater, and theatre and museums and all the other cultural institutions, and you know it best because I worked with you when you were Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70805	My colleague Klarin, first of all, did not say which article was injured, but he did not say that you were not but said that you are often at the theatre, he did not say that you are often. Jasen Mesic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70806	Now my colleague Clara insulted me for accusing me of not even thinking about it, the same article Mr. Klarin said, didn't occur to me to make fun of anyone. I'm an extremely esteemed and esteemed colleague of Clara's. I know he advocates culture, he said some inaccuracies, in 2009, it wasn't like he said. So my colleagues just suggested it to me, I really didn't know what it was in 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70807	Comrade Mesic, you have explained what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure Yeah, well, I said it wasn't an insult because you didn't say it wasn't visiting, it was visiting. [[/Intruder Mesic: No, I didn't insult anyone at all, do you understand?]] And now you're both insulting us here because you're entertaining us with something that's not a topic. Please, it wasn't for any of the other Rules of Procedure. Now we have a replica, colleague Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70808	Thank you very much. My colleague Mesic, you're referring to a rare case. In fact, I don't like to mention Osijek as a case, so I want to correct you, we don't have a sense case here, we only have a culture policy, but what we're proposing as an amendment, it's a positive practice in institutions and institutions. Therefore, it would best help to cross the left and right but perhaps in crisis situations that may occur at other locations. However, this text is not in line with the Osijek-Baranja County, and this problem may arise for that reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70809	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70810	Oh, mate, I agree, and I didn't mean to say it was a case, when I said the case, I didn't mean the case in terms of an affair or anything else. I was thinking about the case in Osijek because it happens to us wherever we have a choice for leading people in certain cultural institutions that we have latent conflicts with either the local community, or with employees, or with professional associations, or with anyone else, and it's been happening to us for the last two years all the time. And I tried to remember through it in history that it wasn't like that. In Osijek, as you yourself said, we have found ways in more situations than the archives and beyond where we were trying to find a compromise solution with the desire for this cultural institution to function in this aspect.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70811	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70812	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So, as has already been said in the debate so far, we have a lex specialis who, I would dare say, solves the Gordian knot, and not only in the case of Osijek, but now I do not need in a negative sense that fellow Bubalo might not have interpreted it that way but also a whole series of other situations that may arise and have already stemmed from various problems in the appointment of theatre leadership, so public national theatres and public theatre groups. Osijek is not a unique case. The truth is, it should be recalled that a similar situation has already been in Osijek, and that is, if I am not mistaken in 1997. Although the problem then did not prompt a change in the law in Osijek, it may now be, but again, I would say, not only because of Osijek, but we had similar cases in Split, and in Zagreb, etc. Namely, what's the situation in the HNK in Osijek? The founder's agreement was lagging behind. I would say that the HNK in Osijek is this unique example of funding the national theatre. It is the only theatre that is funded by the common county and the city and are shared in the consumption of founding rights. However, the counties also assist other theatres, such as Split, Rijeka, Varazdin, but do not consume founding rights. So there's already, we could say problems a little different than maybe in other theaters. So there was no agreement between the founders of the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County. Unfortunately, it paralyzed the theatre, or theater, has no possibility of functioning since the only signator is an authorised indent. So, you can't pay wages, you can serve other obligations, one word theater can't work. But what may be most painful here, I would dare say, that the theatre stands financially well, so there are no financial problems, could regularly service its obligations, and above all I think of the employees of theatres that have been cut off by wages. There he tried to reach the mayor of the city of Osijek, but these are not methods that are nor prescribed by law. This legislative proposal actually enables supervisory authorities, so first of all I think about the Ministry of Culture, the City Office for Culture of the City of Zagreb or the Office of State Administration in a given county, so that it can name v.d. Indent if not agreed by the founders. So if, on the day of the end of the term of office, there is no selected applicant, the minister can appoint the acting officer and we all know that the sole task of the performer is to ensure the normal functioning of the so-called. the cold drive and also call the competition and conduct the choice for the indent. I would particularly point out here that, the fact that the Ministry of Culture, or the Office of the State Administration, can appoint an executive, does not prevent founders from agreeing. So, if the agreement comes to pass, nothing prevents the competent authorities, in this case they are representative bodies of the county and the city, to agree, to vote on the person they agreed on, and that this person should begin to be a V.D., i.e. acting as an intensifier, in the final line, therefore resulting in the choice of intensities. So, the theatre, if we're talking, so first of all, about the HNK in Osijek, it's not a state, but I think and I share an opinion, actually the legislator of the law that the state is obliged to ensure the conditions for the theatre to function normally, i.e. to bridge this interspace until an agreement is reached between the founders and the one who consumes the founding rights and has the right to propose. In conclusion, I'd like to say, allow me a few of the same remarks, to go back a little bit. The Law on Theatres was passed in 2006. Since then, he has survived several changes and additions because his implementation has seen difficulties, which have then been patched up with changes and additions. There were, and I would dare say, quite frankly, I wouldn't count them now, but precisely because of the above, it might be directed that the competent ministry consider initiating a broad public debate that would then precede the possible adoption of new legislative regulatory theatre activities. So, first of all, I believe that the profession should certainly be asked, that the current legal solution may not be the best, but that this law, this lex specialis, is actually the solution of that Gordian guard who will help us, therefore, just bridge these situations when the agreement cannot come to an agreement. I hope that in the future there will be as little a situation in which the ministry will have to resort to such a right, i.e. it will have to appoint an intensifier. I also hope that we will hear about the HNK in Osijek only in positive tones. Here, my colleague Bubalo also listed numerous recognitions of HNK in Osijek. I hope that the next time we discuss the above-mentioned theatre we will discuss these very positive things. Also, my hope is that Osijek's HNK will come to... The Osijek summer of culture with a new agenda and that, as it has always worked so far, will be able to employ its full strength in this important cultural event, I would dare say, one of the most important in the east of Croatia. For these reasons, the SDP club will support this legislative proposal that we see, therefore, as a solution to this problem, the resolution of that Gordian guard that we consider to be the least painful solution and that this possibility, therefore, that the ministry appoints an indemnity, will actually bring the founders closer to trying to agree on time and that these situations will be completely avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70813	Replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70814	Thank you very much. Col. Hajdukovic, this is not a lex specialis, this is a lex Djapic because he did not want to call the City Council because he felt there were enough hands in the City Council to support Mr. Schneider's appointment, therefore this is one of the reasons why we are sitting today and discussing amendments to Article 25. Osijek is not the same as Zagreb, in Zagreb you have a ratio of 51:49, but Zagreb and the state, and here you have a unit of local and regional administrations and the only county in the Republic of Croatia to finance the theatre. Then you should move Article 7 so neither that, the only county in the Republic of Croatia will finance the theatre. What is important to say is that we have also proposed for this amendment which is a sign of a positive practice and does not prejudge the final solution, the normal ministry will give the last one when it comes to intensities, but when it comes to v.d. Agent, then we can say that Mr. Schneider was doing a good job and that's to be commended, as well as the numerous awards you've been talking about. When it comes to what is happening, it is not in line with the Osijek-Baranja County, and by our assessment we are entering into a new problem which will be much worse than the amendment of this article. I therefore once again appeal to accept this amendment, which we have proposed in terms of both good practice and good relations. But you also mentioned the Osijek Summer of Culture, which was visited annually by tens of thousands of people, I would like to appeal this way to the Ministry's address that it may be more generously helpful than it has been all these years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70815	Ivan Drmic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70816	My colleague Hajdukovic could only agree with your presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70817	Comrade Drmic, I've overlooked the reply to the replica, and then you will. Domagoj Hajdukovic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70818	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague, I wouldn't go into what you call a lex Djapic in that I didn't inform so I can't even comment. I would only make one thing right that you said, so the Osijek-Baranja County is not the only county that finance the theatre but the only one that consumes the founding rights. Even though he's funding far more generously than the rest of the county but the rest of the county's funding. So it's not a 50-50 funding ratio in other cases except in the city of Zagreb and mainly in cities. I also wouldn't want to get into Mr. Schneider's expertise, but I love theater first and foremost as a layman. I also appealed to try to find a solution at a session of the County Assembly when it was discussed and I think it is in the interest not only of the HNK but also of the wider public and HNK employees that the agreement certainly took place. This may be another place where we should appeal that the city and the county agree to find compromise solutions and that the ministry does not have to resort to the consumption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70819	Here you go, pal Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70820	My colleague Hajdukovic, I can tell myself that we can only agree on one issue in your presentation, which is that this problem needs to be solved as soon as possible to help HNK employees because all of this more complicated to say goes over their backs. But I have to point out a few things that you are, I don't know if you're as uninformed as you say, or if you deliberately failed. The fact is that the term of office of the current theatre was expired, the fact is that the County Assembly chose him as the only candidate who had the conditions, and the only thing you overlooked that the Theatre Council also decided that Mr. Schneider was an intensifier of the theatre and even later to be the performer of his duties. Two representatives of the City Council of Osijek also sit in the Kazalis Council to eventually come up with some ex-post mind where the city council's boycotted session and with the move, President Djapic and Mayor Vrkic are causing a crisis in HNK. means the opposite decision and vote by their representatives of the people they have put and elected to the Theatre Council of the City of Osijek. So this is a political issue in the first place, and the problem has made a policy. Is that revenge because the intendant Schneider who did a great job, did not make losses, the repertoire theatre is excellent, at least that's what those people who regularly visit the theater say, I believe that you are as you say one of those so you can confirm it here, so there's no economic or no reason why this man would not get the duty of acting, means not intentant, but a man who will simply end this process of choosing a new intent. This is a political issue and the fact is that this law is changing solely because of this case, because of the HNK in Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70821	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70822	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague, I think we're actually getting along more than you could possibly see from your exposure. Namely, if I hadn't said that the Osijek Theatre was the reason for the change, but the trigger certainly is and I would have avoided any political debates. I agree with you absolutely that this issue should be resolved as soon as possible because of the theatre staff, I also said that in the County Assembly and that these problems should not happen. The profession should first of all say its own and then the policy should be particularly if it is laic if it is not professional in this case as regards culture it should agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70823	And Jasen Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70824	I answered the replica first of all that I fully agree with my colleagues, Hajdukovic, with this proposal to launch a broad public debate aimed at the adoption of a new Law on Theatres. That would be phenomenal if the ministry would accept that suggestion, and I've said it several times. They were alive and seen. But I really think it is the only solution that we are no longer coming into these situations, not that it happens to us as in 2009 in Sibenik where Mrs. Senka Bulic was not elected because the SDP coalition partners did not vote for her. Well, here's to preventing these things and things from being done by a colleague on behalf of the SDP club, I would absolutely welcome it and congratulate it on that proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70825	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70826	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my fellow Mesic that I think the profession should certainly and not only when we talk about theatres but generally should point to the lack of a certain legal solution. I can give you some examples from the Law on Primary and Secondary Education where the profession has often made observations about the law or how the law is implemented in practice, and let's say the Government recognized, one of the first amendments to the law from this portfolio have just been to correct what the waist has warned. This is a very extensive job, and I would like it when we discuss the new Law on Theatre to be a very broad consensus, first of all a profession, and then a policy because I think we should listen to the profession the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70827	On behalf of HNS representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70828	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, the esteemed deputy and assistant minister of culture. Which is the way to discuss the laws most interesting to see which methods are used by those who challenge them and who are against them, and then tonight we saw two of these very convenient methods. One method was to talk about everything else, except the law, so we heard about the Labour Act, the Dubrovnik Walls, cultural politics, the character of Ante Djapic on various elements. Another method is we'll talk about the law, we'll even talk about concrete examples, but we won't mention key information, key information, and that's when we talk about concrete examples and concrete situations, the fact that 250 people sit there in a blockade and can't get to their pay, if we're talking about a concrete example, even though money exists. We will, of course, support this law, and I probably don't need to stress it specifically as some unusual fact, and we will support it because it provides a solution for situations where, for various reasons, it is not possible to make a decision and so far this law, regardless of what I can even agree that it has so far encouraged the agreement, but for situations in which this agreement has not come to an end. These amendments and additions of laws also allow for a solution in situations where the founders' agreement does not occur. So this whole situation that we are discussing here tonight in this law is one good old pain of Croatian legislation and its indeterminateness in many parts. In other words, the decision of the founders or the agreement of the founders must make a decision, and when the founders agree, of course, it works. But what if the founders fail to agree? The current law and other regulations do not provide a solution to the situation. The consequence of that is, among other things, the one I already mentioned with 250 people in the functional blockade. And now the Ministry of Culture is putting out the fire. And the biggest shame, if you ask me, is that the Ministry of Culture has to deal with it. I do not see in any way how this will affect, and especially how it will affect the dramatic or awkward or unpleasant cultural policy. This whole story to me and to us at the HNS club, this whole story looks more like something that should actually be the work of the Department of Administration. It's a matter of managing public institutions. The law proposed is to bridge the gaps in governance until the founders can agree. And colleague Hajdukovic said well, no one forbids the founders to make a deal tonight, tonight, tomorrow morning or at any time. The time when they agree to V.D. The intensifier appointed by the Ministry ceases to be V.D. Intent and becomes the one the founders agree on, assumes all functions, all powers and continues to work in the way the founders agree to do so. The deputy minister explained several solutions to the various situations the law provides, and of course I will not repeat them at this time of the day or evening. But I will conclude that from our perspective it is a good, thoughtful and elegant solution which, on the one hand, is effective and, on the other hand, unaggressive and taking into account the specificities of the theatre mile, theatre activities and the culture sector at all, solve possible problems that have arisen or will arise. I would only tell my colleagues from the Ministry of Culture to be very careful with the intensities, since they never know when they'll become prime ministers, and then as we've seen, we're dead. Anyway, HNS supports this, and we're voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70829	Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70830	I agree above all that it is necessary to allow HNK employees in Osijek normal work and life and normal income. And who defended us four months ago when we warned us about it here from the pay phone? Who told us not to come to this situation at all, if we look so deeply and look closely at theatre miles. And why, if we're taking as much care of it as you're talking about, and I'm telling you it's not exactly the same, that's exactly the opposite, then why all those comments from the public debate that we had four months ago, where a lot of subjects participated in it, but none of them were adopted. I have mentioned here the Law on the Dubrovnik Walls as an example that we have a situation to come only with changes and additions and that no possibility of cooperation, if you will, exists and is impossible to implement. If no proposal is adopted from a public debate, if no amendment is ever adopted, what kind of respect for the cultural public and public debates and theatre miles are you talking about, and where are you taking us? And let's not look at her culture now I've got this problem, I can't sign the pay, now we have to go with these changes and supplements. Well, that's not the way to set up a platform at all, quite the opposite. And don't nobody say that here because you would, I'm saying this so we don't get any more of these changes and they add up. In that sense, four months ago, and I warned so that it wouldn't happen to us, of course no one listened.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70831	Replication response, Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70832	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I don't really understand, even if I agree with you four months ago warning and even agreeing that you were right, I don't understand how it is now against this law and then be happy that there are 4 months of delays finally doing what you proposed so far-sightedly already four months ago. So it solves a problem that can obviously happen and happen. This bill solves it, and that's actually the point of this whole story tonight, and these other aspects of cultural policy, in a broader sense, of the Law on Theatres, we can talk about but that's not the topic of this law that we're talking about tonight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70833	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70834	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Coleman, you mentioned that 250 people work in Osijek's HNK. That number's not right, it's 208 people. But that one person without pay is a lot, and that's exactly what happens because of the political relationship of Mr. Djapic with the City Council and the city council's non-reunion, because we estimate that we have a majority in the City Council for the appointment of Mr. Schneider and the continuation of his normal work. And that is why, and here in the Parliament, because this debate has occurred because it is easier to call a session of the Croatian Parliament with this point than to call a session of the City Council, even if it is avoiding the law. For that very reason, we went with the amendment to reconcile, but also to solve all future relationships and perhaps similar situations. If this amendment is not accepted, we will have a new amendment to the legal solution within 3 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70835	Replication response, Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70836	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I think my colleague Bubalo first apologizes if 208 is the correct number. So I was wrong, not on purpose. I hope I haven't done anyone any harm. But what I mean is, it seems to me from the perspective of the Croatian Parliament as a legislator and from the perspective of the Croatian Government or the Ministry of Culture as an executive authority. It's completely irrelevant who's right, who's wrong. So it can be a county hundred percent right and Djapic or City Council or anyone 100 percent wrong and vice versa. The obligation of the ministry as a legislator and us as the body that this law needs or does not need to be voted upon is to bridge the crisis in the management of the theatre that has occurred and resulting in 208 people thanking you for your correction, 208 people blocked and without pay. So it doesn't matter who's right, who's wrong. The point is that the crisis, that there has been a crisis, that there is no incident and that the Ministry of Culture here assumes responsibility for this crisis by means of a legal solution in this situation and in all the situations that will arise in the future, or that such a crisis may not occur, or that when it comes to it, it can be quickly and effectively bridged precisely with the goal of people who are least guilty, so people inside the collective, in a theater that is least guilty of not being damaged as they are most damaged here. The least guilty are the most damaged as it is often in situations like this, and the legal solution is therefore so formulated that the time when founders agree on V.D. who was appointed by the ministry ceases to exist and that seems to me to be the point of this whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70837	And now we're moving on to an individual debate, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70838	Dear Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Even 150 years ago, theatre artists and organizers were considered breakthroughs. Even then they wrote about it as a theater scum. Many theatre trumpets that visited Zagreb at the time were known to escape from paying the rent of the hall, not to pay the rent of the Amade Theatre. And in those days politicians were considered dignitaries and nice gentlemen. And here's how opportunities have changed, the history of humanity in those 150 years doesn't mean much, it's a moment. Today, theatre artists are considered respected people, creative people, and the public thinks politicians as breakthroughs. Politicians have always decided on the theatre and always feared it first of all because they didn't understand it, but they understood one thing, which is that theater is a subversive activity, a time bomb that could explode in the face of political hypocrisy, inadequacy, greed, all the anomalies that theater loves to mock. And that's why they often reached out to all the possible methods to stop the theater, even in the theater was the flowering censorship, the ban, the ban, the exile, everything. But a political theatre as an institution, as a form of artistic expression has long existed and politics is truly afraid of it. The problem now is that the theater has moved into politics. The most interesting theatre scenes are the representative bodies of local and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia. If there's anything to be watched and listened to, there's no acting. In the past 15 years, a number of cases in which politics has shown muscles have occurred in Croatia. A little off duty at the theater, there was no trauma, no fractures, no regular, at the end of the term without the intention of running again. Rijeka, Pula, Sibenik, Velika Gorica, Zagreb, Osijek, in many places, has gone away because it had to go, not because of the conflict of artistic references or poetics or aesthetics, but because of political will. One of the most perverse scenes or episodes happened in my town in 2010. Speaking of the distinguished Mrs. Senka Bulic, she was driven out of Velika Gorica in the most shameful way. In this town, she built the scene Gorica in both literal and transferred as the best small theatre in Croatia. On these boards were directed by Majeli, both Buljan and Valt and Saša Broz, performed by numerous, very prominent, distinguished artists. Juan Pablo, Europe's largest multimedia artist, was also due to come, and he personally promised me he would come. She was evicted in 2010. The local authorities of HDZ and DC could not stand the political theatre in the city, could not endure the performances the theatre made public look into the face of its own party. And what happened then, did he hear from you from 2010 to this day about anything that was staged in that house in Velika Gorica for anyone who created there, not like a theater. You can't hear him. Similar intensities and directors, little is heard of. There were loud demands that this Croatian practice be put in place, to move on to the French model, to the famous model of French Minister Aka Lang, who revolutionised many practices in France and European cultural policy. So it was told who was the minister to take responsibility, is Croatia ready for it? So just on these examples when the Ministry of Culture is trying to arbitration, you can see the misery of local policies that are capriciously competing without real interest in aesthetics and poetry of theatres in Croatia. And I'll just say in the end, normal states mostly don't have a theater law at all. That's what countries like ours have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70839	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70840	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you have said that the theatre scene is the best in representative bodies, perhaps but if representative bodies are called together and we have a situation around the theatre that the city council is no longer called upon by the city council at the testimony or request of no more than a third of the council, and with this particular topic. You can see this caprificiality, but it's sad if the Parliament could participate in this local capriciousity. But I also looked at your discussion of the last debate when it came to the Law on Theatres where you said in one sentence, so there will be no crisis in Osijek, or in Rijeka, the competent theatres of the council as defined by their statutes will complete their choices in the process under way. So you predicted at that time that there would be no crisis in Osijek and your replica just referred to the presentation of our club president Mr. Salapic who predicted what would happen and I now predict you if he did not accept this amendment that we will again have three months of amendments to the law but with far greater consequences and a much greater crisis than it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70841	Replication response, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70842	A fellow bug, that's right. What you're quoting is what I said, but you know I'm afraid of you if by some chance and with God's help I experience a deep age, and then I'll be naive. I couldn't tell which border your local caprices were reaching, I was hoping, I was really hoping that both city and county bodies would recognize the need to keep the Osijek HNK from the crisis but that didn't happen. But don't think and you're missing responsibility when it comes to whether there's a theater in representative bodies or not. There is no representative body in Croatia who, because of the need for local policies, has not been over-determined or determined the dates of the sessions in order to please its own executive authority and its interests, this is ours indeed, there is no way to convince me otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70843	A clear Mesic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70844	Dear fellow Beus, you have absolutely an acting and speaking gift. Absolutely. You have a great book called "Heroes, Niggers and Crazys" that talks about how theater and actors were trained in the Middle Ages in London, they shouldn't have crossed the bridge, they shouldn't have been in the Thames, they had to be out of town, along with cattle, so the plague wouldn't come inside the walls. And it's true, really many times, some people had to leave because still, I say over the past 15 years we haven't had this latent conflict in the appointment, they had to leave because politicians must have been afraid of them somewhere, and sometimes they had to go for money. Let's just say the situation when we had 11 million kunas in HNK in 2004, only on... out of a couple of 100,000 kunas that then the minister in charge couldn't get anywhere, and in that skin, a politician is responsible for that portfolio when at the end of the year you realize that you have a hole of 11 million kunas, and you're under the obligation of financial responsibility, you're in big trouble. He knows that well and the current deputy minister because he was the director of the festival and knows what it means at the end of the year when he lacks the kuna to close the budget, when he lacks a few thousand, which are problems, let alone millions. That's a very serious reason to go, regardless of all the poetry, to poets, that's one of the apostles. And as for these shows, they came, just the one from Velika Gorica, and even the one famous since Flight 3, on the Split Summer, and what you mentioned, which could not have come, just under the leadership of the lady...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70845	Thank you. We have a lot of talent for theater. ... Replication response, Goran Beus Richembergh. [[Intruder Mesic: The speaker does not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70846	My colleague Mesic, I admit I have many talents, but I don't have one, and that's that these talents can make me live successfully. Namely...... Well, you see, there's hope for me in posthumour, too, thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] As far as this is concerned, that these are performances done in co-production and thanks to co-production and after leaving Mrs Bulic, another 6 months were shown, but not in Velika Gorica. ... That's right, so she was visiting on the Split summer. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But everything that was later created, created, shown to a large mountain audience is completely unknown to the general public because it has been ignored. I daren't say it's artistically irrelevant, but it's definitely undetected. In any case, I would not want this criterion of accountability to public money to be a mustache with what I was saying because it simply has nothing to do with it, it must exist in every activity that has any public money, meaning it has nothing to do with culture but itself to do with all other activities and in that sense, 11 million kunas produced or missing in the theatre, in a public company or any institution, and if you want in any other form of public organisation, there can be nothing but irresponsible business, and it is known which laws sanction it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70847	Ivan Drmic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70848	Comrade Beus, you've had quite a theatrical performance, I could close your eyes, imagine you're somewhere on the theater boards. As for your presentation and respect for fellow Mesic, who was former Minister of Culture, I will tell you, perhaps much more objective than you, because I was an opposition representative both in his term and in the term of office of your minister that I have a sort of impression that every four years you swap for speeches. Each of you, when you are in opposition, tells one story, and when it comes to the position of government, forgets what he was doing from the government's position, strives to extend his powers to all forces, while at the same time to reduce the costs of the state budget. So there's a case here where the state gives some kind of tiny, tiny money to the Osijek National Theatre, for program costs, and the city and county each gives 12 million kuna, that means a total of 24 million kuna. I have no objection to this law being voted tomorrow, but also choose to submit an amendment to the Croatian Government, the Ministry of Culture to take over the HNK's spending in Osijek and to choose to allocate 24 million kuna per year for the financing and theatre of the theatre. So, whoever gives the money, it would be okay to be responsible for that theater in all ways, and also by participating in the selection of intensifiers and performers of the duty of intensifiers. This is first of all a political issue that could be resolved in a much more correct, second way, you will see we will try to fix this bill, this amendment of the law with one short, simple amendment that would solve all the problems regarding the functioning of the HNK in Osijek. In the interest of both pleasure and citizens of Osijek who visit as viewers, and also to the satisfaction of all who live and work in the theatre and receive their salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70849	Replication response, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70850	You've heard or understood something wrong. In my speech, I did not honor my fellow Mesic, even more. I think that in his term he rightly placed himself as a culture minister, and on the other hand I know that at a time when Senka Bulic collapsed and drove her out of Velika Gorica, he culminated and begged the local authorities not to do so, so they disobeyed him, they had their interests. And what I'm saying is a little dramatic and what it looks like to you is just because some colleagues and colleagues who can't keep track of what I would normally be saying actually attracts them to listen better so that you might remember. I don't know if you're among them, but it doesn't matter at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70851	The final word of Deputy Culture Minister Berislav Šipus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70852	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the debate, for your remarks, for your many observations. I'd look back on a few situations that I think should still be detected and set what I think would be more concrete and correct in all of this. It was said in some way about the financial resources given in this case by the county and the town for HNK Osijek and apparently that today's debate on amendments to the Law on Theatre was focused on this particular problem. No one wants to hide that it is really a big problem, a terrible problem for a theatre that has a very long tradition. I'm going to say one more little depression right now, and I'm sure Mr. Schneider will support me. He didn't get awards, awards got actors, awards got plays, awards got artists who did it, I watched it all the more or less, and I even orchestrated a play where a fellow singer was the first time I think in the history of the Osijek Theatre got the Croatian Theatre Award, so I know well that theatre. And it's really hard for me because of my colleagues and colleagues. However, the definition or insisting on simplifying who was giving the money, deciding so we respected it, however, if someone listened to the records and footage of previous parliamentary debates here, then I was in this situation where I commended it if it could mean anything at all, or pointed out that in a sense we had the ideal situation of the county which holds this theatre to its county and city that holds it city and that they jointly finance an important cultural project not only for the city but for the county and for the region, and even for this country, which again proves the quality of the performances that they received, which were nominated for the Croatian acting award. Therefore, the ideal situation unfortunately turned out not to be so good now at the time when the agreement was to be reached. Amendments to this law do not allow the Ministry of Culture or the Minister of Culture to appoint an HNK in Osijek or enter the area of agreement, discussion, co-negotiation and co-workers in the county or the City Council of Osijek, the city headship rather than at the time when you can obviously come to the point where you need to make a decision together, a joint decision must be made, it must be agreed, and which we do not again question what then. Mr. Bubalo says that the decision is not or is not in line with this attitude and these changes. As far as I know, and I personally participated in the talks with both the mayor and the mayor, the minister was very active, we were trying to solve the case with agreements and county and the city was sent to agree. Twice the county was asked about how much I know even some colleagues visited the Ministry of Culture but we did not get a written statement from Mr. Mayor or County. So, unfortunately, I have to say, that didn't happen what we expected should happen. As for the cultural public proposal on what comes as a proposal from the Ministry of Culture, and it goes to the so-called The public debate this time was 8 days, which was all a total of 192 hours available to the working people of Croatia and to the cultural public to make their remarks about these changes and additions. We have received a huge number of remarks on our website by number and letters 1 (one) so that we should demystify a little, insisting some of the supervisors, our bodies of culture on what actually public debate can give. Let's not really say that we keep the minister there absolutely has the right and the Ministry of Culture that this is a legal-formal problem. This profession has so much to do with the profession that the profession is now the victim of this problem and that actors, singers, dancers remind me of the ballet successes of this theatre now in the HNK in Osijek, technique, they are all the victims of this very situation that led us to this that we have to react. Here I thank all who participated in this debate, and I hope that this will really quickly lead to a solution that our colleagues and colleagues in Osijek will be able to continue working normally. I have already said Croatian National Theatre has no financial problems, the HNK in Osijek will receive support in both the County and the City of Osijek this year. I wouldn't comment on Mr. Bubalo's black forecasts and announcements. I already said, HNK has no financial problems. The HNK in Osijek will also receive support from both the county and the city of Osijek this year. I would not comment on Mr. Bubalo's black forecasts and announcements, but I believe that culture will still win this whole thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70853	Thank you very much. And colleague Kresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70854	Thank you very much, Mr. Shipush. It is true that the city and the county finance a theatre with equal ratios, the claim is correct. But when we talk about the awards received by artists who received certain performances, it also won the HNK in Osijek, and just under Mr. Schneider's intention. The HNK has also financially recovered in Osijek and Vlahe Ludić, who has left many debts, and we see that he has been convicted these days. So what I'm saying is, the text with the Osijek-Baranja County is not in line and I don't think it's a good idea. I think you should agree with the Osijek-Baranja County, sit down with them for a conversation like the mayor offered more opportunities to the city of Osijek but this is not the only institution in which the city and the county have a 50-50 ratio. There's a regional development agency, there's some other institutions, and it looks like the spear's only being broken at the theater. I'd say what you said and repeat it, the waist is the victim today, and I'm afraid it'll be bigger. I hope so, too, that the black forecasts will not come true for all of us living in Osijek, who love the Osijek Theatre and who are proud of 107 years of the tradition of the Osijek Theatre that we enjoy watching plays and who are proud of the theatre, but also of all the awards we have received over the past few years. We hope that the worst will not happen, so we appeal once again to accept this amendment that we have sent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70855	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. My colleagues and colleagues, tomorrow at 9.30 p.m., we begin the debate on the report by the representative of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights for 2012. Have a nice evening. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70856	We move to a decision on the points of the agenda. First is the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Theatres, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 617. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the HDSSB Representatives' Club. I would like the representative of the Vice-President of the Honored Culture Minister Borislav Šipus to be shown about the amendment of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70857	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment of the HDSB's Club of Representatives is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70858	Explanation, reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70859	Since the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on Theatres does not assume the role of the Minister of Culture because the proposed solution is related to tasks regularly carried out by the Ministry of Culture as the competent body for the supervision of the legality of the work of national theatres in accordance with Article 38 of the first Law on Theatres, and it can intervene only in exceptional situations and temporarily until the founders have made the appointment of the intensities, or the perpetrator of the duty of the Institute. It is not usual for the legal practice to automatically perform the term of office of the performer after the end of the term of office, since in that case legislative intervention should not be required to ensure the functioning of the national theatre. An act of appointment shall be required for the appointment of the performer and the proposed amendment shall not be provided for. The automatic extension of the term of office of the applicant by virtue of the law itself is not a good solution, since, for example, in the case of negative circumstances, business debt or the like cannot be intervened, and the founders cannot solve the problem as a result of disagreement. Therefore, the proposed legislative solution should also be seen as a general solution for all future cases, not just through this particular case. In addition, the proposed amendment does not solve a specific case as the applicant in this case has expired for a long time, and there is a period which is not regulated legally, which would mean that the law is applied retroactively.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70860	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Krešimir Bubalo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70861	President-in-Office, I request a 10-minute recess under Rules 248 for consultations at the club regarding the amendments and the situation and the Final Proposal of the Law on Theatres.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70862	Thank you very much. I'm setting a break. Is there anyone else? Question, two, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70863	On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, I'm also looking for a break, but not for this reason. In this House, too today, words have been spoken which harshly disrupt the integrity and constitutional solution of the neighbouring state of BiH, and I find it inadmissible in this Parliament, and I want to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70864	Okay, let me write this down, HDSSB Club. HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70865	On behalf of the HNS Club, we're also looking for a break about...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70866	Let's hear the explanation. Also, a respected representative of Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70867	On behalf of the HNS Club also pauses for consultations related to the Law on Theatres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70868	HNS and Boro Grubisic, a respected representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70869	In connection with the same reason Mr. Hodzic is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70870	So you have a break, so you can consult at the same stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70871	Wait a minute, Mr. President. There are two topics for a break. I would beg that in connection with this request of another that we too may vote That's right, yeah. [[Adversity President: To be classified for another topic as a club, you will get of course.]] It's 12.15 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70872	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12, 25 HOURS]] There are two topics for a break. The first topic is the vote on the Law on Theatres. They asked for HDSSB, HDZ, HNS. And the second topic is, I would say, to re-open the debate on Croatia, as it was called, just a little bit to see, the development assistance of the Republic of Croatia abroad. We'll be open so it can be re-opened, but only for those clubs that signed up. These are minorities, HDZ, HDSSB and Croatian Labourists. Let's get this straight. I didn't hear what you were saying. Let's get this straight. Honourable representative Kresimir Bubalo on the Law on Theatres.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70873	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Representatives of the Ministry of Culture, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, the HDSSB club asked for a break from the management for the reason that our amendment was rejected, which should have just reconciled things and solved the problem in the HNK in Osijek. We are facing the final draft of the law, but I would like to begin by saying that this amendment has been rejected and what are the reasons for the rejection of this amendment. The reason for the refusal of the amendment is the petty chickening of HNS and Minister Vrdoljak. It is not common for a party like HNS to endanger the vital interests of culture and 208 persons in the HNK in Osijek. Namely, we had the opportunity to see political violence in Split, Zagreb, and now we see in Osijek, instead of seeing the funds that were to come through the culture budget in Osijek, we see that the law is changing and that it is going violently to bring and set up a V.D. Intentionary at the Osijek National Theatre. Although the town of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County are owners of 50:50% of HNK ownership in Osijek, the city refused to call a session of the city council for a month and a half, Mr Djapić, Vrkic and Minister Arsen Bauk, after our written requests, because you just knew that we had the necessary majority to appoint VD. I want to say that the theatre council and the Osijek-Baranja County have confirmed Mr. Schneider, but you want it by this law because it's just easier for you to change the law than to call a session of the city council, and that's probably for the reason, Mr. Shipus, because you haven't conducted in Osijek's HNK as you did in Split or Dubrovnik. But we also remember very well Minister Andrea Zlatar Violić and her punishment for conflict of interest and publishing magazines, but also her ownership shares. HNS wants, as the Archaeological Museum has abolished in Osijek, as it has brought to the Archives a man who did not know where the archive is, to destroy the profession, and you are doing so through these amendments to the law. You don't care about references, you don't care about awards, you don't care about your resume, you don't care about your work so far, you want to do it in the museum, you want to do it in the conservatory department, you want to have it in HNK with a HNS stamp, that's what's harmful to Croatian culture, that's what's harmful to the city of Osijek, and there's even more centralization in culture and in all segments of social life. Therefore, politics right from Zagreb, from Zagreb's cafes, is moving from Portanovo to this law and it is going to be called v.d. in Osijek's HNK. Instead of channelling funds for the HNK in Osijek to help Osijek become the European Capital of Culture in 2020, it goes counter-clockwise, it goes through political violence, political violence to appoint a V.D. in the HNK in Osijek. I don't understand why you waited two weeks to refuse the amendment and that today the law would still be at the polls? That was supposed to be last Friday then. It is also because of the salaries of HNK employees in Osijek, but also because of the culture in Osijek, this change of laws will have inconceivable consequences for both the HNK in Osijek and culture in general. We have proposed, right through this amendment to avoid a legal vacuum and to continue exactly intentant functions or v.d. The applicant continues through this amendment, through the amendment of the legal solution and there would be no politicisation in the city of Osijek, but also in all institutions in culture, it is one common practice in institutions concerning both culture and other institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Our question is, what happens tomorrow if you didn't secure funds for the HNK in Osijek, and you're going to frame the HNK and Osijek?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70874	Thank you very much. Infringement of Rules of Procedure Igor Coleman, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70875	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. Chickening is certainly not the way we talk to each other in this assembly and talk about the way other stops work, whatever they think of them, in addition to that, my colleague Bubalo has also taken some of the elements in his speech by Minister Vrdoljak, Minister Zlatar, so this part of the subject that is not subject to discussion has also been injured in this article 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70876	My colleague Bubalo wasn't talking about the HNS. He was talking about the proposal. Chickening called the law. No, no, the law called chickening. I don't agree with his qualifications, but if the law has assessed such a thing, it's his business. On behalf of the HDZ club, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70877	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club, of course, has asked for a break not only because of this case that has been happening to the HNK in Osijek, but we are looking at a wider picture and everything that has been coming to us from the Ministry of Culture for more than two years. And if that's what anyone's particularly interested in, let's also talk about the cultural policy of the CNS. It is almost unmistakably consistent that we have systemic changes and amendments to the law almost always by the urgent procedure that comes to the Croatian Parliament where the amendments and additions are made exclusively by articles that go in order to change the way in which the leaders are elected. So it was with HRT, so it was with HINA, so it was with all the other laws that came from Runjanin Street in Zagreb. This was the case with the first amendments to the Law on Theatres when the Croatian Theatre Council was to be blocked here in Zagreb to choose or extend its term of office, so is Osijek. This is a very consistent policy, and we agree here with colleagues who remind us of the appointment in the archive in Osijek, the appointment at the Museum of Vuladol culture, the appointment in a number of cultural institutions in the Republic of Croatia are announced by the shifts by many other museums, from the Museum of Peasant Bunes and beyond, where it exclusively wishes to be staffed exclusively by ministers and associates. The possibility of political consensus, political dialogue, the possibility of finally seeing both these benches and the media strategy and the cultural development strategy does not exist. These changes and the additions of the Theatre Law, it is no longer a comedy of colleagues and colleagues, it is a tragedy that we solve every situation in Croatian culture by going with changes and additions of individual laws in order to create ourselves an opportunity to humanize. I remind you that all these amendments and additions of the law have one common line, which is that none of them have passed an adequate public debate, that no law has received the support of the profession, and that everything the profession has tried through the Ministry of Culture's website to vote for certain opinions has been accepted. My colleagues and colleagues, the conflict of interest assessed by the Committee for Conflict of Interest and the situation where you have the opportunity to work on the creation of a cultural programme and at the same time not to listen to the advice of the profession of the Law on Dubrovnik Walls, which is scandalous to any single expert you could not find to support this law. For these amendments and additions to the Law, you cannot find any single expert or one single association that has been required by the competent ministry to implement in accordance with the Code which has also been accepted in the EU. My colleagues and colleagues, and in this Croatian Assembly, we had opportunities in previous times to make laws in the cultural sector unanimously and in the decades when ministers were from both the SDP and HDZ ranks we could make decisions on the intensities and leading people of cultural institutions in agreement and consensus. What has changed that only in the last two years is it not possible, that it is not possible to talk, that it is not possible to agree? Why was this possible during Minister Vujic and Minister Bishop's time? Is it such a change in cultural policy or is it really an exclusive motive that there must be people directly under the CNS because, as the prime minister says, that this is the CNS's ministry there is no more anyone to say? But if you're not going to listen to the opposition, I suggest you read all those contributions to the public debate on amendments and additions to the laws in the culture sector that have been written to you by the profession. When really the ministry and the minister thinks they know culture better than the profession that creates it, then it's really dark for Croatian culture. And that's why it's fellow colleagues and colleagues, a tragedy in both the other bill proposals and today's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70878	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70879	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to culture, when it comes to theater, it's not exactly instructions to use such heavy barbaric fire and heavy words because they can declassify the speaker. And we've heard very difficult qualitys. About the chickening of Minister Vrdoljak, the heavy charges against Minister Zlatar Violic and the invetivities at the expense of Deputy Minister Šipus. Is that necessary in this debate? It is the right of every opposition, and I would say the duty to turn every proposal 20 times over, evaluate, scrutinize, and wherever it finds an opportunity to warn about defaults and misjudges. But when spoken like this, then it's quite clear that it really wants to cloud the basic thing, the basic problem, which is that so far, existing legal solutions in the Law on Theatre are not made so that they can prevent, solve the crisis of governance in national theatres. On the contrary, the text of the law that we have so far generates what is now happening in the series. And that is why it is more than good that the Ministry of Culture intervenes and suggests that the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that conflict situations be resolved to find solutions. counterpart Mesic said there were no crises like this in the past. That's just not true. So what do you think we have is a short memory that we don't remember the case of the Croatian National Theatre in a split appointment of individuals there? Therefore, it is clear that the law is dysfunctional and that it needs to be intervened. The HDSSB colleagues have proposed an amendment that is in principle inconclusive, which actually blocks a solution to the situation, which prevents situations and the law is not a case but for all future cases prevents founders on one side or the ministry responsible for supervision from responding at all if it is a negative situation where someone whose mandate ends simply cannot get a new one. It's not good, it's not good when general solutions come down to an individual address. It is not good that if such a solution is accused of both HNS and its ministers because it is then slowly reminded of that proverb "the mocking owls have a big head". This is to distract the public from the real problem we have, which is why people in Osijek's Croatian National Theatre are suffering at this hour, not getting paid and any further difficulties, any wisdom on this subject that does not contribute to a clear procedure and the solution to this problem actually goes to the harm of these people. And proclaiming yourself as colleagues from the HDSSB do to exclusive representatives of cultural and theatre interests in Osijek, is very much taken over. I'm gonna be polite, so that's all I'm gonna say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70880	Thank you, too. We have completed a list of representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament who asked for a break so that they can show themselves about the amendment and the law. Now I ask the amendment's promoters whether they want a vote on the amendment or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70881	We're looking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-13-0.u70882	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the MPs, the respected Kresimir Bubal and Josip Salapic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Now we're going to vote the final bill. Please raise your hand and let us know who's up for the final bill? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 72 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 19 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending the Law on Theatre in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
