ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u64268	Dear Mr. President, I would like to ask you on behalf of the HDZ Club for a 20-minute break, given the disturbing news of the state of national security we have had the opportunity to monitor the last few days in the Croatian media.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u64269	Okay. Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u64270	Same reason the Labour Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u64271	Same reasons. Who else? Nenad Stazic, SDP. Let's get this straight. So Davorin Mlakar HDZ, Branko Vukšić, Croatian Labourists, Nenad Stazić SDP, Damir Kajin Independent List, Krešimir Bubalo HDSSB. No more interested in executing the club's position on the subject? We're taking a break for 10 minutes. That's 45, 9.45. It's 9:00.32. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Now let's go ahead and hear the club stand for the reason of the break. The Croatian Democratic Community Club and Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u64273	Thank you very much, esteemed President, colleagues and colleagues. In recent days, we have witnessed worrying information about the problems of the technical regularity of Croatian Air Force military aircraft. According to this information, only 3, i.e. only 1 MIG type 21 aircraft is capable of air space control. At the same time, 12 military aircraft are on a remont in Ukraine, and their delivery to Croatia is already 5 months late and is uncertain when they will be delivered. Which means, right now, there is only one aircraft left to control the Croatian airspace. Because of this, we would say strategically important failure Croatia will not be able to fulfil its obligations as a NATO member and will be forced to seek the protection of neighbouring states of its airspace as already announced in some media. This situation, which seems even dramatic, did not lead to the country's president calling the National Security Council, nor did he find the occasion in a difficult, dramatic economic situation, a situation in a relatively close country of Ukraine. Or on difficult occasions that we witness and witness in health, science, education, or employment. Instead of all the major problems faced by the president of the state, the National Security Council is calling for the security threat of the Republic of Croatia because one SOA employee is allegedly employed even though he did not pass the security check. He thus poses a danger to the work of the service, and the security check referred to the fact that his brother is a journalist who critically writes about the Croatian government. And not only this, but earlier authorities, because I'm going to remind you of this problem that has come up today as a reason for calling the National Security Council since 2007. We wonder how we've lived in that danger for all six or almost seven years, and nothing dramatic has happened to God? But there's no answer to that question. That's why I'm asking myself today, and I'm asking you, what kind of country are we living in? The National Security Council is meeting for a journalist who is critical of the government, mostly the executive and his brother. Isn't it a question of national security that every single person in our country, every one of us, is a matter of security? Our rights and freedoms, protected by Article 3. The Republic of Croatia's constitution as the highest values of constitutional order? What about the rights of journalists who lose their jobs because they dare to criticize the government? What about the rights of union leaders who are arresting because they dared to stage a strike? What about the rights of all those who have pointed to crime, especially lately, the SDP leaders lose their jobs? Or it's even enough to fuck on the occasion of the Prime Minister's speech so you can be brought in by the police. What about the rights of 400 thousand unemployed for whom this government has no solution as well as tens of thousands of young people leaving Croatia seeking happiness elsewhere? All these issues are obviously not for the current authorities of national security issues. What he said was good, though, in the whole story, is the fact that the Prime Minister has decided to postpone to the 2 weeks session of the National Security Council because he travels to Australia for a two-week visit, leading the defence minister because the situation in our society is quite satisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u64274	Thank you very much. It is now up to the club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u64275	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the last few months, the words of freedom are often heard from this pay phone, the words of employment are heard, words of how safe the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are. The left hand, left hand to deal with ephemeral political issues, to deal with ideology, partisan and Ustashas, Cyrillic, and an increasing number of people in Croatia are hungry. And now it's a matter of national security. The question is, are we free? Should the planes protect us from what? Since the attack, what, neoliberal capitalism? What are planes supposed to protect us from? The biggest killing that threatens the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is just a mess, poverty, poverty, unemployment, stolen future, imperceptibility, and I think it's time for us to talk about these things here in the Assembly, not about who hired whom, we present to each other about small things that certainly, for most Croatian citizens, do not mean life. Instead of having a table in this big crisis where financial experts say there will soon be no money for full pensions or public sector wages, there will be leaders of all parliamentary parties, instead of agreeing on what the objectives of all of us are, instead of reaching consensus in what we need to do in the next few years, to reach a consensus on health care, to reach a consensus on local self-government, on the state administration, to see how the country gets out of the crisis, we deal with spies, spying, and you can think that the citizens of the Republic can't sleep because they are excited whether Karamark spies spy on Milanovic or Milanovic's spies are spying on Karamark. I think that we have come to the bottom and that with the right of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are looking at us and pointing at us with their fingertips and think of us as an incompetent bunch of politicians who talk all the time about insignificant things while a growing number of Croatian citizens are digging through garbage cans, an increasing number of citizens have nothing to pay for basic life costs, we care about SOAs, POAs, and in fact it is about the vanity and inability of leading politicians in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u64276	Thank you very much. It is the SDP Club and the Honorable Vice President of the House, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u64277	Thank you. So the SDP club had no intention of opening this topic before the debate on agenda points. Today, in 15 hours, President Tudjman, president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, called a committee meeting and we are thinking of opening this topic on that body. It's a body that's relevant to this national security issue and we're going to ask the board to carry out surveillance and we're going to carry out this surveillance to get an answer to the question, so we don't politicise about it here, but based on the documents, we can determine whether there's been a breach of the law. I don't think it's like a colleague, Vuksic, that it's a bigotry, and that this topic is a bigotry. It is necessary to determine whether the SOA was there when Tomislav Karamarko led it as agents of people without security clearance, first thing and second thing, whether people were employed there because they are hired without competitions which are normal, so we will not conduct a public tender for agents for one day or for a short time, and then referred to the state service for indefinite time in the ministries and other state bodies. Why is the answer to this question important to us? Because Tomislav Karamarko is not an irrelevant person. He is the leader of a major Croatian party and will compete for prime minister in the next parliamentary elections. Citizens, if they don't have enough information about their candidates, can make a mistake, so they chose Sanader on two occasions and were robbed. And today they have to wonder why they live as poorly as their colleague Vuksic asks. And they have to get an answer to that, they chose a thief. They chose a thief, he robbed them along with his party and today they dig in containers as Vuksic says. They need to know why they're digging in containers. If Karamarko is elected prime minister tomorrow, we must first get an answer to the question, not us citizens, whether it was a person who threatened national security when he was SOA leader and whether he hired people without competitions as agents and later translated them into state service. Because it's a crime. If he did that, it's a crime so citizens need to know if they're going to choose a criminal or an honest person, and that's why we're going to ask at the National Security Committee meeting today to conduct surveillance and we're going to conduct that surveillance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u64278	Thank you too, dear colleague. Independent Club, Independent List, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u64279	Your Honor, your Honor, your honors. That services should be dealt with safely. I don't think anyone out of the majority will mind me but they're dared to say they've even been neglected for the last two years. Why? I have the impression that because of the aversion to the same authorities, she was kind of running away from the same ones, but on the other hand HDZ used them, so maybe he abused them. He also used those services in the party war as party president against Jadranka Kosor and must not be allowed to use them before this or some future election. That's not the way it's supposed to go. It had to be reactive before, and it had to be cut off. I won't talk about planes. Our airspace can also protect NATO as it protects Slovenia, clearly costs it. And the fact that Croatia can't afford that luxury so that I don't know how many hundreds of millions of euros to get 5, 6 or I don't know how many planes or planes. It has largely taken place now in the media and polemics about, say, Mr. Jovic's adviser to the President of the Republic. Mr. Jovic, as we also know, was also an adviser to two HDZ foreign ministers, Mr. Zuzul and Mrs. Grabar-Kitarovic. But I also dare say that this Soa, the POA, before SIS, the HIS, that I don't list what it was called, is too slippery to profit from any of it. In the end, it will not profit from either the opposition or the position, but the fact is that greater supervision of these bodies must certainly be carried out than has been done now. We all knew that through the service people were hired without criteria, but secret services are secret services because they work "secretly" inaccessible to the public, so there could be a lot of stuff here. And these services have always been not only for the past few years but we can say for the past 20 years, they have served as a valve to hire a similar and obedient one. Clearly, no one can say that these services have done a huge job mainly there in the 1990s when Croatia was destroyed and when aggression was committed against Croatia. I dare say, on the trail and what Mr Vuksic was saying, that even in that economic sense, even perhaps it was more difficult, a more sensitive period than it was in '91. will no longer be killed today but today it may be harder to raise or run Croatia than it was in '95 or '96. We've been dropping this gross social product for six years, no investments. We have lost 280 thousand jobs in the last 6 7 years since the start of the crisis here, and if these trends don't stop, the budget rebalancing that will probably be said next Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday in this assembly is just bad for us. The fact is, there's no more slippery terrain than the intelligence field. Although someone will say no to Croatia, I think those services need Croatia as strong police and a strong judiciary should. Today I dare say that Croatia is not threatened from the outside. Croatia is threatened from the inside, no one is "pokro" from the outside. It was stolen by our best sons and the Croatian economy is also not destroyed by measures from the outside but from the inside. We were, it should always be pointed out, the victim of the aggression of armed rebellion, Croatia was bleeding, Croatia has 60 billion dollars of war damage, Croatia has so far singled out some 120 billion kunas, but surely we are just as much if not more lost because of immorality, robbery and inequality. For the end of only one sentence, the services should be dealt with and it is clear that a monitoring and control mechanism should be established so as not to abuse them in the future, especially if they do not interfere with any party, there are political elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u64280	Thank you, dear fellow Cain. It is up to the HDSSB club and respected counterpart Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u64281	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. My colleagues and colleagues. Here I will try to make a contribution in these five short minutes in front of the HDSSB club to the national security of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, the military security of the Republic of Croatia or the national threat due to the delay of the restoration of our aircraft is not something to be feared by the Croatian people and the Croatian state at this time. They will arrive when they are restored. Croatia is a NATO pact member and if any threat to military security occurred, we are a national member of the EU and NATO alliance and would certainly be protected in this regard. In the second part, I said five minutes short. The issue of national security because of the work of the Security Intelligence Agency, the Military Intelligence Agency and all those people who are employed in services that should be secret services, we should not know that they exist in such a way as to investigate and protect the vital national interests of the Republic of Croatia, but we do know that very well. In 2011, Mr. Lucin, himself, addressed the president of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of the Interior, and Mr. Lucin also knew that, unfortunately, the Security and Intelligence Agency and the people who are in it, in every instance, are deeply involved in politics, deep furniture when it comes to any campaign, whether party or state elections, people who are candidates on the party lists, everything is handled from one side, and we know very well who it is and should be here in the Assembly and explain to us what it is. We will make our contribution to national security, so on this topic we propose that Mr. President of the Parliament use its instruments, and we have them and that we finally make order if we are certain that we can and can, so that we do not get hurt because of what we say. We have the right to establish an investigative commission, the investigative commission has powers as the body of the Croatian Parliament. We had an INA investigation committee, Mrs. Zgrebec knows very well, and we can have this investigative committee regardless of the Committee on National Security and Internal Policy if we are really going to try to make order in this system. Unfortunately, I'm afraid if we're going to act like this for daily political purposes to announce the VONS sessions, the assembly committee sessions and just stand there, we're going to be where we've been, nowhere. Our security regarding the work of security agencies is hollow as Swiss cheese. The Security Intelligence Agency is the strongest political party in the Republic of Croatia because it can do whatever it wants. That's why the leaks information from the USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office, which is why people are convicted before the media, which is why they come out on some cases before the court closes their proceedings. That's why our national security is at risk. How can the court protect the right of a citizen or a person who is a suspect, prove guilty and defend the independence and fundamental pillars of the Croatian State if someone is convicted in advance, if someone is dealing with information from the Security Intelligence Service and is working directly on the head of the people, regardless of who it is and how the process against them will be completed. Now, in that case, our national security colleagues and colleagues are at risk because we don't control the system, the court can't do its job, it can't do its job, neither can the current attorney-in-chief do its job, no one can do anything because we're at risk. How will we expect to implement the law that we have passed, that we will expect a report from the chief state attorney to present it to the Parliament, how he protects vital national interests when we witness that in the most important cases when national interests from the secret services of security agencies were being protected, information about the cases was coming out. People knew in advance about cafes when they drank a few more drops of what they were doing, who they were investigating, who they were listening to or not. Is there 40,000 people in the Republic of Croatia who are data to be tapped, and I am sure that even more... national security of the Republic of Croatia. It's not true and it's not. We have to take those measures if we really stop bothering people with these topics, if we use the levers of the authorities we have, the Croatian Parliament has it through the board and investigative committees that can establish, there is also a president, there is also a Government. If we're finally going to start solving the bigger problem of our people, and that's a threat to economic security because we're in a deep economic and moral crisis, we're all depressed, pessimism by the government because of it, so if you're going to do the order then don't talk nonsense but do what you have to do, and that's to use the mechanisms of the government that gave us our people. Then we'll be safe, and for now we're insecure and we don't rule that system, I'm sure of it 100%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u64282	Thank you too, dear colleague. Now I'm standing there thinking loudly in front of you and the Croatian public, we heard that through the practice of the Croatian Parliament that in the name of clubs they are looking for breaks and discussing topics that are not prepared. Party assessments are being made, party views of very important topics, conclusions are being reached and conclusions are being proposed, and nothing can be concluded by the Parliament now. I, respected colleagues and colleagues, and club representatives, ask to use business opportunities, or to propose a topic through committee clubs or to impose a topic on competent working bodies. I cannot make an assessment of whether any of the thematics, evaluations and conclusions are correct or not, and Croatian citizens have the right to receive a relevant opinion from the competent authorities, in this case from the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament, so I ask this practice that exists long in the Croatian Parliament to reduce as much as possible because it confuses the public more than it sends good messages. Thank you very much. Dear fellow MPs and dear colleagues, I warmly welcome you. We continue with the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament in the already announced agenda of the 12th session of the Croatian Parliament. It's a proposal for a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders, first reading, P.Z. No. 612. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The motion for an act you received in, yes. Can we finish it then? The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the first reading of the law apply to the adoption of this law. This is Articles 183 to 188 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate on the draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health, Social Policy, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received a report from these working bodies at the session. We're gonna stop now. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar has his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73076	Thank you, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed the proposal for a Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders at its 42nd session on 11 February 2014. The Committee considered the proposal of this law as an interested working body. In the debate, the committee members unanimously assessed that the proposed legal solutions represent significant progress in achieving and protecting the rights of persons with mental disorders. Further explanations of the proposed provisions relating above all to the application of specific medical procedures and biomedical research have been requested. As pointed out, people with mental disorders were most often forced into a psychiatric institution, and this circumstance certainly reduces the autonomy of a person, although Article 18 of the cumulative conditions for the use of electro... e.g. Treatment, inter alia, with written consent of persons with mental disorders, raises doubts about the autonomy of such consent to electroshocks. The reasons for those articles have also been requested to interpret the retention and accommodation of persons with mental disorders in a psychiatric institution based on the decision of only one person, not teamwork of experts. For example, Article 3 of point 12. On the basis of this article, people with mental disorders are forced to be detained until the court's decision and that this is based on the decision of psychiatrists. And Article 28 indicates that forced accommodation in a psychiatric institution is proposed by a doctor of medicine based on a manual. So a doctor of general practice, not a psychiatrist. The expectations are expressed that such proposed laws, legislative provisions will constitute a strong mechanism to prevent possible abuses of the Institute of Forced Accommodation with the aim of achieving certain political, property or personal benefits as has occurred in several cases that have been followed in public media over the past years. A significant contribution has been made to the debate by the Advocate General, the Advocate General for Children and the Deputy Advocate for Persons with Disabilities. The Ombudsman pointed out in particular that her office receives a large number of complaints from persons with mental disorders and their families, of course, and that they are also visited by psychiatric institutions as part of a national preventive mechanism to prevent torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating procedures. In order to further improve the proposed law, it proposed the legal regulation of the species, shrubs and conditions of application of the coercion measure to persons with mental disorders located in a psychiatric institution, as well as restrictions on the application of coercion measures to certain categories of persons with mental disorders, for example children. In addition, he suggested that this law apply to persons with mental disorders who are assigned to an investigative prison, not only to those who are in prison. In the end, as Article 26 is regulated by the obligation of the psychiatric institution to inform the Ombudsman of the accommodation without consent of the person with disabilities who will then verify the eligibility of such accommodation by the Deputy Advocate General of the person with disabilities has pointed out that they are in agreement with the proposed decision and have found that the provisions of this law, the legislative proposal, are significantly better than the applicable legal standards. Finally, it is proposed that provision 18, Article 18, be supplemented by a similar solution referred to in Article 19(3), so that we return to electroshocks, that electroconvulsive treatment be explained to the person with mental disorders in a precise and understandable way, unlike what many think these types of treatments are still used. The opinion is that the possibility of shortening the duration of forced detention of a person without a court solution should be considered which determines forced accommodation for a period shorter than the proposed 8 days. And after the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the next conclusion. A proposal for a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders and attitudes, proposals and opinions presented in the proposal is adopted, in the debate on the draft law, the Proposer is referred to in order to prepare the final draft law. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73077	Thank you, too, Mr. President-in-Office of the Committee. Do the presidents of the other working bodies committees of the Croatian Parliament wish to present reports? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the SDP's Club of Representatives and the respected representative Ana Comparić-Devčić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73078	I would like to thank the president, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So, before us is the proposal of the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation. We at the club, too, as fellow Furio said, believe this is a significant step in progress and the achievement and protection of the rights of persons with mental disorders. This law is in line with a number of conventions, so it is in line with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and the recommendations of the Council of Europe. And in any case, we believe that this bill is going towards reducing the stigmatisation of persons with mental disorders who are very much still expressed in our society. In fact, what is changing in this, specifically changing in this Law? So in this law is prescribed, carefully prescribes a way of protection and confidentiality of data of persons with mental disorders, complete medical records. The same careful prescription is given for the treatment, or for the procedures to be used, and should not be carried out for the purpose of treatment. It says that, therefore, psychosurgery and castration are forbidden, but is still allowed, so electroconvulsive therapy and that's what probably creates a lot of negative reactions. The fact is that this electroconvulsive therapy in the Republic of Croatia is being conducted in two other institutions, is not so common and represents one final treatment if, therefore, everything else is exhausted. What changes this law is a fact, therefore, that a person who submits to electroconvulsive therapy must give personal consent. So no longer can someone else sign for that person to whom electroconvulsive therapy will be applied. As for, therefore, further changes to this Law, means when we talk about the accommodation of patients in psychiatric institutions, so the accommodation of patients in psychiatric institutions can be given with consent, can be without consent and can be forced accommodation. What is the newspaper in this law is, therefore, accommodation without consent with the approval or signature of a confidential person. So this is where you introduce the concept of a person of trust. It's the paper of this law. So, at some point in our lives, each of us can choose a person of trust who, in the event of a disease, will decide whether or when this person is going to be treated, psychiatric treatment. The newspaper is also at forced accommodation, and we know that this has been said a lot lately. We read in the papers and abuses of such forced accommodation. What this law introduces is thus reducing the possibility of forced accommodation from 72 to 48 hours. And what we would like to point out at the club is, in any case, in Article 28. So at forced accommodation, it means that people who directly threaten their own or other lives, health or safety can be placed in forced accommodation. This is the case in Article 27, and Article 28 states that a person who has been forced into an institution may be on the basis of a physician’s medical instruction which has personally examined and written a prescribed document on that review. In the same article, paragraph 3 says without the medical instruction of doctors in particularly urgent cases of serious and direct endangerment of their own and other lives. So, as Article 28 refers to Article 27, where we have said that these are actually persons who are at risk of their own or others' lives, and what practice shows and fellow doctors will confirm, very rarely is called when the acute condition is psychiatric. Most of the time, you're called an ambulance and the police. So in this context, if the manual had to be written, it might happen that in the middle of the night you can't simply get a doctor's general medicine, you won't get a manual. And the question is then, given that it does specifically say emergency cases here, we might need to formulate ourselves a little bit better here because practice shows that in acute conditions it's basically called emergency medicine and police. Very, very rarely you are called a general medical doctor because if a patient is willing to reach a general physician accompanied by one of the families then it is actually just a worsening of the current disease and it is not such an aggressively acute emergency. I would also like to ask you to consider, if possible, the formulation of this Article 28. What is certainly more important to highlight and what is to praise is the specialization of judges since it is therefore very specific cases. Therefore, specialisation of the judges of the county courts is being introduced and, in the very context of this, the judge is no longer dependent solely on the opinion of a doctor, or psychiatrist, but can therefore also provide for further explanations and facts in order to make the best decision on this forced accommodation. It is also absolutely commendable, therefore, that in the trial of persons with mental disorders who have been tried most often in courtrooms without the presence of persons with mental disorders according to the proposal of this law, this is, therefore, exceptional in courts, and that means the trial must be conducted in psychiatric institutions with the presence of the person himself. Which is certainly progress and absolutely commendable. As well as the fact that a person with mental impairment as well as a legal representative can seek a second opinion, especially a person who does not work in an institution where he is treated directly. This is also important for the prominent. I would certainly like to emphasise the fact that the treatment of an innumerable person is being reintroduced. In any event, this applies to those persons where it has been found that a criminal offence cannot be repeated, i.e. that all the conditions are obtained for a person to be free from his or her treatment. This is certainly good in terms of rehabilitation and resociation and return to a normal life of people with mental disorders, which must actually be our goal to all of us. As far as the measures themselves are concerned, it is important to point out, therefore, that the Minister of Health is asked to prescribe the correct procedure and way in which and when it will be able to apply the measures of coercion and that they are in some way informed that they are simply equal in each institution because practice shows that this has not been the case until now. As well as the fact that social care institutions will no longer be able to implement coercion measures unless the institution is a working psychiatrist. And what I want to point out in the end is that this State Commission for the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation is transferring from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Justice and this is in line with what the SDP Club on the Ombudsman's report for people with disabilities has repeatedly pointed out. People with disabilities don't belong to the Ministry of Health, they actually belong to each of us and their needs are nothing different than any other person. And I want to point out and really commend it as a very good newspaper. What we still want to warn us about at the SDP club, which we need to take a lot of accounts for, is this working therapy. And we talked about it on the Health Committee. So today is the fact that psychiatric institutions are conducting work therapy. Work therapy is conducted in most cases that these patients, therefore, actually clean, feed other patients, change diapers, swim, shower, actually do work for people who are employed for these jobs within the hospitals themselves. In fact, the purpose of working therapy is not that, the purpose of working therapy has an exact purpose and goal and the goal is actually to get a person better, rehabilitate and return to normal life as soon as possible. In view of the fact that this bill is definitely aimed at reducing the stigmatisation and reduction, i.e. putting persons with mental disorders in one completely different picture in the society where it belongs, the SDP club will support this bill first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73079	Thank you, too. Let's go to the replicas. Dear fellow MP Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73080	Thank you, Mr. President. Well colleagues Comparić Devčić I agree with almost the whole part of your debate except in one small part. Of course, you were talking about conventions, about everything, I want to repeat that this House of Highs has in that sense reached a certain conclusion, so that on June 6th, a Day of People with Mental Disturbation with a goal, so the sensitization of the entire social community and everything else. But what I've come to hear about, in connection with your debate, which is about forced accommodation where you're talking about doctors of general family medicine who almost rarely, you said calls, if I'm wrong, correct me, call me, and I disagree with that claim because I'm in my long-standing practice and I testify to many doctors who know best always, that in some ways they've been invited, participated, and have been exposed many times to executions, it's necessary to say that in this place. I want to make it clear that the emergency medical attention is certainly and teamed up because family medicine doctors come out, but many times and they may not be able to solve the problem, but they certainly come out and see that it wouldn't happen. I agree with you, I need to lay down clear rules so that what happened a few years ago doesn't happen. You remember when the doctor wrote a particular manual without it, and in that sense it should certainly distinguish which options and whether the doctor may, and if he cannot intervene to protect him in some way, it is important to clarify these things completely. What's the jurisdiction of emergency medical attention? What is the responsibility of the doctor of general medicine? Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73081	Replica reply, distinguished representative Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73082	Thank you. Comrade Milinkovic, here's my apologies. Maybe I wasn't clear until the end. I believe that in the smaller environments the doctor of general medicine is absolutely necessary and exposed and he is the first one to go to the intervention and it is certainly so. I may have looked a little bit from the perspective of large cities and organizations of service in major cities, and so I actually just wanted to point out that it's very clear in the law who and when and why it comes out in the field so that there's no problem afterwards and I agree with you, doctors of general medicine are a very important link.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73083	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73084	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, you have rightly spoken of a person of trust and authority, of opportunity, and I would therefore refer to this part that speaks of a binding statement and opportunity and that we do so, it seems to me in the part that speaks, therefore, about a binding statement, that a person of trust can cancel, so he can change his mind for various reasons at any time except in an emergency, and in fact everything in this context is an emergency. This can lead, because this person decides, to decide on emergency hospitalisation without consenting to medical interventions of various species, etc., it can lead to this possibility, at any moment to cancel this possibility, in an unfavourable position and in a person with mental disorders, but certainly medical staff, doctors, and then I would say to the wider community, because it is always important to take care of the best interests of the patient or the patient, but certainly society as a whole. So, I suggest we try to work out exactly this article because I repeat, any case in which a person of trust can intervene is actually an emergency.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73085	Replica reply, distinguished representative Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73086	Well, colleagues, I can, I have to agree with you in part. The fact is that maybe this is an attempt to actually protect, a new form of protection of a person with mental disorders because that person was just heading towards reducing the abuses that were present and that we witnessed through the media and numerous inscriptions were and there were a lot of talk about it. So there's always some kind of variation because of property or any other situation, so there's a forced one. This was actually protection, an attempt to protect you, and I think it's a good try, whether it's still a bit of legal work, I'm not a lawyer, so it's very hard for me to say it, but I agree with you that if the lawyers see that there's still a hole in there that might have to work out a little bit, but I like the idea as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73087	Dear fellow MP Dujomir Marasovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73088	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues, we've succumbed to a lot of the media impact of the yellow press, etc., and I think they're kind of making laws for us to some extent, not entirely. I'm not very happy with it, nor am I convinced it's the best. The psychiatrists cannot defend their public attitude because they must protect patient secrecy and professions, etc. and then, in that respect, always as the yellow press wins, and in fact, the wrong conclusions are based on false assumptions and wrong interests or bad interests. The yellow press only makes money, and he doesn't care about the patient or the psychiatrist. I don't like it too much, I won't be against this law, which is an emphasis on the judiciary. I think the last signature should be put on by a psychiatrist, not a judge in all these cases, I can't go into detail. It's not a good thing the psychiatrists got away from the profession. Here the waist must be the last arbiter in my opinion. But the main thing I'm trying to say is within these 50 seconds, which is patient protection. I think the legislator is here as advice let's take some lady, I say it out of practice, but I'll say it in general, there's a phobia being haunted by the boss, she's being chased by a colleague, she's being chased by a cleaning lady, she's being chased by everyone, and the woman's retreating home and for a year, two days there's no one sending her to treatment, we don't have the instruments to sort of send her to treatment, and that person in a year, two days's down. She's losing her job, etc. How are we going to protect that person by bringing her into the treatment system? This proposal did not cover neither of us in our legislation at all, nor in practical terms. I think there's the biggest leak and the biggest hole, and I think we should work on that with added effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73089	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73090	... the bill of law in such a way that the waist is completely removed from the decision. [[Speech is not enabled.]] It just writes here, it's a newspaper, it's the fact that it comes to the specialization of judges which is certainly commendable and the newspaper is extending the powers of county courts in such a way that they are not exclusively related to the opinion of psychiatrists but can determine all the facts and carry out evidence of the importance of making a judicial decision. Therefore, it is actually the protection of the patients themselves. I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73091	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MP Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73092	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues Komparić Devčić, that's exactly what I wanted to emphasize what you just said, you commended that this law will specialise in judges for treating people with mental disorders. Let's see in practice what it would look like, how long will this judge education actually take? They will no longer be able to decide the fates of people without their presence or without being seen, so at least it stands in the law and it will also not be possible to happen elsewhere except for this debate that will take place in the premises of a psychiatric institution, so at least it stands in the law which will be difficult to implement. And secondly, you mentioned article 8 which says it defines a psychiatric diagnosis and was introduced to protect people with mental disorders and to prevent the easy setting of a psychiatric diagnosis. Here it's imputed that psychiatrists don't work according to the rules of the profession. I think it's just that that's being raised... by psychiatrists is offensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73093	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73094	I really don't understand what the problem is. I think that the specialization of judges is very commendable because these are specific cases and I think it's absolutely good that they will be conducted right inside a psychiatric institution and not as the practice has so far proved that these persons have not been present at all at the trial, which is a disaster in fact. So you're stationed in an institution forcibly, you're being tried somewhere, deciding on your fate, and you're not even present there. I think that this formulation and this kind of future practice is a much better variant than it's ever been. As for the psychiatrists themselves, I did not mention Article 8 but article 28 at forced accommodation, but I really think that all of our colleagues want to believe that they are not making any diagnosis, and that they are very, very aware and aware when they bring any diagnosis not only psychiatricly but any diagnosis, I think that doctors are extremely, extremely consciously working and I don't want them to stay in the air at all that someone said they are not aware that they are bringing such a flat-rate diagnosis.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73095	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The HDZ club is next in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Nada Murganic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73096	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I will share with you some thoughts regarding this proposal for a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders. People with mental disorders have a specific position in all societies and in all times. Because of the nature of their health conditions, they were often unable to adequately take care of their rights and interests and often represented one of the most deficient social groups. I may briefly say that, as with any phenomenon, the relationship between society and it had different views, and perhaps I would only briefly mention that here is Rome known for its judiciary and it was then that the foundation and forensic psychiatry was created because it was already said that the person with mental disorder was not responsible for the work that had been done, if he understood the meaning and consequences of that part. Of course, there are quality legal frameworks in the Republic of Croatia today that protect people with mental disorders, but often the lack of law enforcement and the lack of awareness of the need to apply the law leads to the fact that these people have been denied and all those possibilities of abuse that they so respond to in public, and we are discussing them. The Republic of Croatia, in its long tradition of treatment and the protection of the rights of persons with mental disorders, is certainly classified in countries that are preceding these rights and I think this proposed law, together with some changes or supplements that should certainly be added to that. As it is based on different conventions, not to list them now, said the Proposer, and also the predecessor, the Republic of Croatia is a signator of all these conventions and should certainly abide by them in everything and so on in this law. And also the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders, which was passed in '97, with amendments in '98, '99. and in 2002, it was necessary to comply with other national rules. This proposed law I would say stronger control mechanisms that will prevent any abuse or failure in the accommodation of persons with mental disorders. New provisions, institutes, include additional professional workers, additional institutions and institutions, all in order to say another opinion to the people, i.e. another set of eyes or other views. Of course it is necessary, it is really important moments and the fates of individuals. We would highlight some of the moments, i.e. the newspapers found in the proposed law. Namely, the accommodation of a person with mental disorders is possible as a voluntary accommodation with a written clue, here it is now specifically defined. A new way of accommodation was introduced without consent with written confirmation from a trusted person. There has already been a lot of interest in this institute that is being introduced into the law in these previous discussions. It's good news, but it's a question of who estimates me to say both moral and ethical and mental abilities and a person of trust and whether it's a really good choice. To this end, it was noted that an additional protection mechanism was introduced, that the Ombudsman for disabled persons should be informed. There are always all kinds of notes in medical records that are actually a clue to everything that is done and what happens to a person with mental disorders and possible suspicion is given to a competent court. However, we think that there should still be some articles that should be fully defined and fully elaborated. In the case of forced detention and forced accommodation that is always very difficult and very know how to unfettered in the public, control mechanisms have been introduced. The mentioned doctor of medicine should write a manual which would only be issued on the basis of the examination, based on sightings. What continues to be said in the law, that the health minister with sublegal acts will bring about, say, looks, instructions on how this manual will look and then a guideline for emergency management by a doctor or by a doctor. We don't think it's a good solution to the sublaws. This should be part of the law because sometimes sublaws can be late after law, so there can be a disabling of fully proper implementation of certain legal provisions. The deadlines for determining the eligibility of forced accommodation have been reduced, the deadlines for notifying the court. What is always highlighted in this law and I think it is good, that everything should be notified to a detained person, no matter how much she is able to understand or not at that time, a person of trust or a legal representative. What's the paper, we've already had in the debate, is that more powers are given to the judge in determining the facts, carrying out the proof procedure. It is stated that the judge, with special preferences he has for working with such persons, should have additional specializations and education which we consider to be good, but we will see how it will be and whether it will be fully possible to implement it. Part of an interested professional public we have seen that there is now an observation that according to this law in the treatment of persons with mental disorders is suppressed medical approach, that psychiatrists are somewhat marginalized. The provisions are in line with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, persons who are deprived of their business abilities, fully or partially. The impression would be, however, that the psychiatrist is also very often mentioned in the law, in each segment very much necessary, and I think that it is the law and predicted, but there are additional experts involved, additional experts that we consider not to be very burning. The court hearing can, or should normally be conducted in institutions where persons with mental disorders reside, even the judge is obliged to give them an attorney under official duty for which we also consider it to be a correct newspaper. These separate newspapers in the law are highlighted as positive and are precisely the ones that require additional additions to individual articles or the introduction of new ones for a more complete and precise determination of the rights of persons with mental disorders and the obligations of those who are obliged to make it possible. We therefore propose that particular attention should be paid to Article 51(2), which speaks of the psychiatric treatment of an innumerable person on the loose, and determines the court in criminal proceedings when the criteria are amended, when the criteria for forced accommodation are met. But to remove the danger of re-enforcing a serious crime is sufficient treatment on the loose. This is a measure of resociation and rehabilitation and leads to what is often now mentioned about the deinstitutionalisation of psychiatric institutions at all because certainly long-term hospital residents are inappropriate for people, and they are too expensive for the health and social system. But here you need extreme caution because you need constant supervision of both doctors and general medical specialists and supervision of a person of trust, who has a legal representative and what is the most important family and wider and narrow social community in which such individuals return, which is mainly not prepared for it all together. And I think that should therefore specify exactly what stage of treatment can be given to the Institute of Treatment at large. With that, I don't think we're going to go to the judge's right to decide, but I think there should be more cooperation between one profession and another. And that law should be binding. Articles 37, 48, I am now going to fill them in on the 67th, 72nd, as well as on the inclusion of social work centres and social institutions' obligations in procedures towards a person with mental disorders. I think that when we talk about any law, when we make it, we need to make sure that those provisions concerning other resolutions, other systems and institutions should be harmonised for the reasons that social work centres, in particular social institutions, are also in reform, and because of the new obligations they have received, I don't think they will be able to carry out these additional tasks in quality, and we know that their obligations under this law are very responsible, imposed, or included. For example, in the formulation of the coercion measure, a measure of coercion was replaced, the physical force was replaced by a measure of coercion, which is fine. There are increased controls, there is also orders for the Minister with a sublegal act to lay down rules when and in what case coercion measures are applied or not applied. And what's said that social institutions will be able to accommodate people with mental disorders to apply these measures, and they're also needed if they have an employee psychiatrist. They don't have it, and I think it's going to be the same or the need for stronger hospitalization, which is once again in conflict with the tendencies of deinstitutionalization. So I warn of the possibility that it will be so to say something that cannot be legally fulfilled. We also suggest that this part be incorporated into the law, not that it is a sublegal act. Because somehow I know we have the impression that these sublegal acts are mostly some sort of final act that we can't influence much, or debate. If it's part of the law, then at least this way we can still discuss it. Until the second reading in this sense will have time to intervene. We warn that accommodation facilities for persons with mental disorders, with the needs of new staff, require additional resources. So what the Proposer has said will be minimum resources needed in the budget for the implementation of this law. I don't think it's gonna be like that no matter what the measures are. The team also needs medical treatment, which is really expensive and necessary, and needs additional education. Here's the judge. It is necessary to introduce and certainly, apart from these above mentioned experts, social workers, defectologists should certainly be introduced and psychologists, I repeat with all present and necessarily mandatory psychiatrists. I think it feels like they're being moved by this law, or given some other approach, and not health care, I don't think so. Maybe my point of view is fine, because there's just some extra mechanisms in place. We conclude that every law and its adoption and implementation is the responsibility of both legislative and judicial and executive authorities and it requires a lot of things that we have discussed and staff and financial resources but certainly good public cooperation. And on that part, we all need to act together. The public must certainly be through the media and through these discussions educated about the very meaning of mental interference and what it represents. Some social movements with some negative factors certainly lead to changes in society that have an impact on the development of mental disorders. For example, in the Homeland War there is PTSD, there is an increase in alcohol and drug diseases, eating disorders, etc. I will stress this often mentioned deinstitutionalisation should not be promoted because very often we know that these people do not often have where and whom to return after years of stay in psychiatric or social institutions. In any case, we believe that the law is an improvement in the protection of persons with mental disorders. We ask that certain changes be introduced for its even better quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73097	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Now we have inter-club replicas. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73098	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Inter-club replicas have been allowed, and I did not go with that intention, but I did not confirm what my colleague said because I agree with most of it, but in any case what I want to stress is important for this debate, which is of course to strengthen control mechanisms and for those who cannot, of course, take care of their interests. And there's never enough effort. But I also want to especially highlight the part where you talked about the rules of conduct. You said that the minister would adopt a certain regulation, the Registrar that at a given time the doctor would act, of course, with the aim of helping in the best way anyone who needed help but, of course, the one who provided assistance. Doctor. Because I often think that this issue needs to be given a lot of attention so that what is not happening, because the media that my colleague Marasovic has emphasized is waiting very hard to get doctors and in some way to put them in an awkward position. And I think that in that section it is very important to stress this moment in collaboration with the profession to give attention to the issue. But what's also very important is you were talking about deinstitutionalization. I want to say that this deinstitutionalization is being approached somehow lightly, that it will solve all the problems. We know that there are not enough funds, we know what happened at the Stancic Centre when deinstitutionalisation was cited as a major solution, where parents protested, where they pointed to a particular problem. We know what kind of persons it is, that certain quality health care, professional health care, and, of course, in these circumstances many times it is not possible to do so in such quality. And I think about that moment, too, it's very important to put it on the table and make it important.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73099	Thank you very much. Yes, a reply to the replica of the respected representative Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73100	Thank you. My colleague, the measures of coercion are always sensitive, it's about people's fates and those who carry them are the same to say so to people who can have different ones at that moment of discretion. That's why it's always good that there are some rules, some protocols that will apply to anyone who implements those rules and protocols. As far as deinstitutionalisation is concerned, it's really one quality more, and I don't mean to criticize it, but I would warn that if it's implemented as a measure, only as a austerity measure, then it's not good. We also need a parallel institution in order to develop deinstitution in particular with such persons should be prepared primarily of dwellings. They've been away from their environments for a long time. They've been away from the world of work. It is necessary to prepare their families, a narrow community that is very reluctant to receive them. So it's a process that lasts. Measures and supervision of experts are still needed, therefore, almost the same as in the institutions. So it's a good measure, but it really needs to be devoted to great and financial and professional attention and not to be seen as a austerity measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73101	Another inter-club replica of respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It may bother you, but it is not bad to repeat the material or certain things that are related to this law, and Mrs. Murganic said that the newspaper and the introduction of a person of trust. This is a very important thing that says that within the meaning of this law a person authorised by a binding statement to give or refuse consent to certain medical procedures for persons with mental disorders. And this is about these special medical procedures and biomedical research, the law does not say how and how these people will be tested out of trust. That's very important to emphasize, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73103	Replicate response, respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73104	I'm glad that this institute of trust so much in these discussions is paying attention to the reasons that as much as I've tried to figure out that it's well regulated in the law, I'm left with some gaps and I'd like it to be really clear. If not in the final final roundup because we have a person with mental disorders, especially those who need some kind of counsel on whether a legal person or a person of trust is an expert. So they are mostly deprived of partial or purely business abilities. Are we sure they had a good choice? It's their person of trust but is she able to really fully represent his interests? I think some kind of assessment, maybe not of art, but some assessment in that sense should be for both a person of trust and a legal representative. Because there is the possibility of other interests that are not always the interests of a person with a mental disorder.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73105	Dear colleagues, my emphasis that the inter-club replica is not defined according to only one club or patented at the HDZ club. I am saying this for the sake of the Croatian public because my distinguished predecessor from the HDZ Club said that there should be a thousand flowers to bloom, quoting a Chinese leader. Well, that's why I'm just stressing. Not bad. So it's the HSU club and the respected representative Ljiljana Cvetovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73106	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. In view of the need to bring legislation into line with international documents and the harmonisation of legislation and practices instead of new amendments and additions to the existing law, a new proposal for a Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders has been drawn up. The basic question is what the law represents essentially. It is clear that the possibility of applying one law depends not only on good wishes and strict adherence to the standards set in different conventions but also on the economic development, culture and tradition of the individual community. It must be pointed out that the legislator must be aware of the fact that a large part of the psychiatric patients are not considered sick or wanted to be treated, and that their current behaviour is not dangerous for them or for the environment, and therefore justifies the fear that the law will lead to a reduction in the total number of hospitalized patients. The proposed solutions would be good if there was a properly developed psychiatry in the community and a clear concern for society to help these people within their midst. This one, however, simply does not exist, or is not sufficient. Thus, the law which is some of the fundamentally declared objectives of human rights protection and health improvement could lead to a reduction in hospitalised patients, an increase in emergency reception, more aggressive patients, an increase in the need for forensic treatments and an increase in social cases. If that happens then the story of the protection of human rights will essentially turn into its own negativity. Part of our complaints is purely technical and we find it relatively easy to correct. For some of the solutions, although present in the current law, we believe that they would have opposite, therefore, harmful consequences. Article 3 of the bill determines the meaning... in this law. Paragraph 13 sets out what consent is. In practice, it means that a person who does not believe that she is sick, who knows that drugs are dangerous, and often really endangering, freely agrees to be taken away from her freedom, which is hard to believe. The problem should solve paragraph 16 which determines accommodation without consent as accommodation in a psychiatric institution of a person with serious mental disorders who is unable to give consent so that written consent is given instead by a person of trust or a legal representative. What, though, if there is no suitable person of trust or legal representative? A completely unnecessary provision of break 2, Article 8, which determines that non-adjustment to social norms should not in itself be a reason for setting a psychiatric diagnosis. Only what is present in the classification can be diagnosed, and not the adjustment to social norms is not a diagnostic category and is impossible to diagnose as such. It can only be a symptom within a clear diagnostic category. Article 10(2) lays down the accommodation of a child with mental disorders requiring treatment in a psychiatric institution and attributes the obligation of a psychiatric institution to ensure adequate accommodation if there is no department intended for the treatment of children separated from the adult ward. We believe that this should be the ministry's task, not psychiatric institutions, because it would certainly avoid the possible dangers of such prescribed obligations, such as this. that juveniles are admitted to the Department of Forensic Psychology, which is what happens in practice. Article 12(3) states that deprivement of a business capacity does not mean inability to grant consent. There's a great danger for a psychiatrist here. Let's assume that a psychiatrist at 2 a.m. urgently received a person of deprived business capacity who gave written consent. Then, after treatment, an unwanted outcome occurs, what happens when such a person consents to the procedure and then negative outcomes occur because of the procedure? In a possible future trial, it is very easy to prove that such a person was unable to give appropriate consent. Moreover, it is difficult to imagine that for example, a surgeon would operate on a person who was deprived of his professional ability without the consent of a guardian. Article 14 provides for the rights of persons with mental disorders. We stress the necessity of prescribing the right to written notices, not just oral, or the obligation of a psychiatric hospital to create a brochure or leaflet about the program of the institution and the rights of patients, which each patient would receive on the occasion of hospital reception, or department, as well as the family of patients. Patients who are unable to understand the brochure should receive interpretation according to their options. In subparagraph 5, paragraph 1 mentions resociation. Resociation is a term no longer used in modern psychiatric textbooks. Rehabilitation procedures are applied, so rehabilitation should be deleted because rehabilitation covers the meaning of this term. Article 28(3) sets out the need for psychiatric assistance in cases of serious mental disturbance. This necessary medical assistance can be refused by a psychiatric patient as well as by a person with diabetes mellitus or high blood pressure. The difference is that such a patient does not believe that he is ill, which means that some of the patients will only receive the necessary help if they are dangerous to others or themselves because they are currently not directly endangering their health, so that they cannot be forced to be hospitalized. One of the basic human categories is to take care of your health. In Article 56, paragraph 1 provides for the maximum duration of forced accommodation but the number of persons in a psychiatric institution. This article of the law has existed so far, and it exists in similar variants in many European countries. The strict adherence to this article puts a psychiatrist in a relatively favourable position because they are protected by law. In practice, however, a number of problems arise. The smaller problem is that sometimes the law doesn't define which is the longest penalty but only the smallest. The whole range of problems related to the release of such persons is far more important, and all are more or less related to the lack of adequate accommodation and supervision after the completion of the institutional treatment. First, there are patients who, although not at risk of life outside a psychiatric facility, would be practically impossible. Patients who do not directly endanger anyone but are highly unpredictable, virtually no one to communicate with, do not go outside of the department is dangerous. Then let's imagine that a schizophrenic patient after the murder was committed was well cured but believes he was cured and does not need therapy. He wants to go home and thinks he doesn't need future treatment and how and where to fire him if the locals don't want him. In chapter 8 of the coercion towards a person with severe mental disorders, there is a text that is mostly present in the applicable law. It is a fundamentally prescribed guideline in foreign literature, and we would like to say that these guidelines are not based on research but on good wishes and often on completely wrong assumptions. The law must clearly answer what is wrong with those patients who themselves require a slowdown or in our conditions of less isolation. Is it possible to use the restraint and what kind of administrative procedure must be followed by this kind of restraint? You won't find an answer to this question in foreign literature. This measure is often used after aggression in the psychiatric ward. But what about geriatric patients, some of whom regularly, and most often at night, fall into delinquent conditions? For them, the unrest and the getting up in the dark does not mean that they will attack someone, but that they will fall and break a part of the body. A broken hip in older people is often a death sentence. The law does not provide for such an indication, and it is very lifelike and present. Article 64(3) states "the application of measures of coercion will immediately be notified to a person of trust, a legal representative and a lawyer of a person with mental disorders". Although widely copied this item is completely inappropriate for a number of reasons. What does that mean right now? Does this mean that at three o'clock in the morning, they're going to inform a lawyer, and who's going to bear the costs of calling a lawyer, and the patient's ability to choose whether or not he wants to report this experience to anyone or an example of a schizophrenic patient who was aggressive in the department? It's very likely that a patient like this was aggressive at home as well. In this case, the message to a representative, lawyer or family member is not only because of the urgency of the coercion measure, but dominantly that the patient is aggressive and when he is in a protected environment, when under supervision and when he is taking therapy. The question is what it means for the patient to return home, and the return to social life is the goal of the treatment. In addition to the above, this item is extremely out of line with the rest of the law. These patients can decide whether they want to be treated, can vote in the elections, can read the newspaper, get visits, talk to everyone and every phone but cannot decide whether or not to report to anyone about their experience. We hope that the proposal will consider and respect our proposals and remarks when drawing up the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73107	Thank you very much. We have one replica, respected representative of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's to not being inside the club I'm reporting for a replica of my colleague from another club. But really with the intention that I've fully followed your debate, and I've kind of accepted that you've highlighted these things and you've emphasized the layering of this issue and now you're saying that one regulation can be used by a procedural that can solve some kind of problem that's really hard because every case you've instructed requires what individual access is, indeed, every one. And in particular, you emphasized the question of young, young people who are simply witnessing today a growing trend and going into independence and everything, and that is something that should be extremely cautious. And there is a special problem after leaving the institution how and in what way to act, which is whether those persons are educated, quality proper regular therapy, all of these are issues that you have very well highlighted and I think they should be given attention, and with special emphasis also for persons of life you represent. I think that these issues require because you said very well that a broken hip means a death sentence, you need to think very carefully about these circumstances and not every approach is simple, you need to give it a quality approach and find a legal solution that will make it possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73109	Thank you, too. A reply to the replica by the respected representative Ljiljana Cvetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73110	Well, we've come to very similar conclusions. I think that really minors should be separated in their treatment in psychiatric hospitals because of a number of cases, from addiction, from everything else, and also from returning to a particular environment, I said that this depends on the economic development and the environment, on the culture of thinking of people who live there and on the tradition of a particular community. I think these communities should really take care of people coming out of hospitals like that, which in some larger cities may be much easier than in smaller areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73111	Thank you, dear colleague Cvetovic. We're going further into the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is next to the HNS club in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This law, as is very clear here, is in its reasoning of a medical approach to treatment and care for persons with mental disturbances, introduces the principle of protection of the rights of those persons and, of course, that this fundamental principle or orientation of this law should be supported, and that is, of course, compliance with several conventions, from the Council of Europe to the United Nations conventions and also the harmonisation of our practice of protecting persons with mental disorders with European Court of Human Rights rulings. Therefore, with regard to many institutes, protection of the rights of persons with mental disorders is increased, from banning psychosurgery and castration to extending the conditions for electroconvulsive treatment, by introducing a consent of a person or an examination of the capacity of consent of that person, the decision of the ethical commission of the institution in which the person is to be placed, the possibility of the presence of a discussion of forced accommodation when that debate occurs, the specialisation of judges involved because of the very specialised subjects and of course knowledge, the legal knowledge that these judges need to have. This is about reporting to the Commission on the protection of persons with mental disorders. In particular, the right of a person with mental disorders is the appointment of a person of trust who, in terms of rights and decision-making, takes precedence over a legal representative and a person who, of course, is once again the spread of the right of persons with disabilities, and as a final confirmation and orientation of this bill, is that the Committee for the Protection of Persons with Mental Disruptions is no longer appointed by the Ministry of Health, so the principle of medical access is abandoned, and is appointed by the Ministry of Justice in order to place an emphasis on the rights of those persons. These are all measures that absolutely need to be supported, but here at the same time raises a series of questions about the application of this law, or the possibility of its application. Of course, it is easy to set high principles, it is also easy to make appropriate judgments that rest on these principles, but it should be possible to protect these principles in practice, while at the same time effectively with good results, the treatment and treatment of these persons will be present because often on high principles and on the judgments that they are resting, the mechanism of real optimal protection and persons with mental disorders, and of course of general social interest, is not in place. So in the application of this law with the adoption of sublegal acts, it won't be that simple at all. For example, here is a requirement, i.e. the law requires separate accommodation of children from adults. Of course, this depends on the conditions in which the institutions responsible for the accommodation of disabled persons operate. Of course, this should be supported, but the question remains, of course, to what extent are our institutions and more complicated procedures that we now prescribe to enable the welfare of both persons with disabilities and society as a whole in terms of dealing with those persons. It is certainly to welcome the fact that this bill has also received the support of three attorneys who deal with the area, so for children, the attorney general and the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, as well as the commendable and welcome support of the Association for the Social Affairs of Persons with Disabilities, but I would like to highlight some of the issues that are being opened here. Namely, the appointment of a person of trust as mentioned on one of these committees responsible for this proposal certainly goes in favour of protecting the rights of persons with mental disorders. The question is, of course, whether this trust institute that has the advantage of a legal representative can turn into something that would not actually be in line with the interests of even a person with mental disorders, and the mechanisms of reviewing that decision are not, or are not, indicated here. I suppose something about it will be found in the rules that will be passed for the application of this law. Also, more coercion measures under this law cannot be introduced in the case of a threat to property. So, so far, this has been possible, and now it is a condition for forced accommodation, i.e. the application of coercion measures, is the self-hazarding of the health or life of a person with mental disorders, severe mental disorders, or some other person but not property, which, of course, raises questions again. The threat of property can be a very important thing that can, of course, endanger health, so that the high principle is again very careful when it is applied. Of course this is a law that is very specialised and in this sense a special role in the adoption of this law should be given by the boards of the Croatian Parliament. It is a highly specialized, very complex debate which, of course, comes into matters of health and medicine and justice and fundamental human rights. So it's very complex, of course, and the possibilities of a system that deals with the protection of the rights of persons with mental disorders from the police and other bodies. In fact, the most logical thing to do would be for this bill to have the best treatment and treatment with the utmost care on boards that are in particular in the Committee on Health and the Committee on Justice, that is, the Committee on Human Rights and the Committee on Family. However, none of these committees have been declared a parent body. These are only interested working bodies which, in some ways, because of the importance of this law, because of the double-high expertise and multi-disciplinaryity that this bill involves raises questions about the quality of the work of these bodies. So no working body is a parent body. In any event, this law, apart from, of course, the plenary discussion of the interest of the representatives and the public, should certainly be given greater attention to the working bodies of this House, and the reports of these working bodies are not, in fact, sufficiently not showing the depth, nor the attention that these bodies have given to this bill. So, we welcome the bill. We expect that the observations which have been made, and in fact the expert and agreed observations on this law will not be much but will be accepted, that the consultation and the Ombudsman, or the defence institutions of the Republic of Croatia, will continue, cooperation with the associations, and that special attention will be paid naturally after the adoption of this law will be regulated and allowed to maintain, with high protection, the real protection of the interests of persons with mental disorders as well as the overall social community. For all these reasons, the Club of HNS Representatives will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73113	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We have one replica, respected representatives of Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73114	An esteemed colleague, of course, that I will fully agree with all your considerations that you have made in this debate with, I may be bored to point out again that whenever we pass a law based on a high level of protection of law and on the principles where we really want to protect the interest in this case, I am asking myself whether we have created frameworks and assumptions for the implementation of this law, otherwise it will be a dead letter on paper, that is, the person himself will require that we protect them and allow them to protect their rights and interests. I'm going to mention again the psychiatrists who, in this law, are very much added to them, are being added to them. I have experienced new obligations being added to them and additional jobs and they as well as any medical profession have become less and less. And I'm just going to mention, you've highlighted the protection against property, or whether it's necessary to react with and apply the force measure at that time. It's also very embarrassing and scary when there's a situation where the property is destroyed and we're wondering where that limit is when this destruction is going to damage the life of both that person and its environment. I think that in some situations, we may even be doing harm to the people we want to protect.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73115	Replication response, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73116	Dear colleagues, I am convinced that the law is going in the right direction. These legal proposals, of course, are due to the complexity and requirements put forward before those who will implement this Law, always raises the question of whether the law will be, to what extent, be applicable, or to how far these positive principles will actually generally lead to better solutions in general by looking at. I'm sure the law won't be a dead letter on paper. I'm sure there's going to be some difficulty in his implementation. You mentioned, of course, this dilemma about when the force measure, when the threat of property actually enters some kind of area that should be applied, is a measure of coercion because it can be a significant and major problem. Of course, the question is both burdens and psychiatrists, so all those who will apply this law, not just psychiatrists, but both the judiciary and police officers and everyone else who participates in this law. The issue is the capacity of institutions to deal with this, especially specialised institutions, and not only those that are in some way supportive institutions. So these are all open questions and I welcome therefore the questions that you have raised but I hope that on these principles that we are talking about this law is still a big step forward. And it is up to us, therefore, to monitor its implementation and to monitor the specialized committees of the Croatian Parliament and to adopt sublegal acts and not just legislative proposals in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73117	We will now hear the views of the HDSSB club and the respected colleague Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. When we discussed and when we adopted the Law on Pre-departure settlement clearly and loudly, almost all clubs expressed their agreement and hope that the purpose of this law would be what would reduce indifference in the Republic of Croatia, aided economic operators in the Republic of Croatia, aided in the recovery of the economy, the economic movement of full sails forward. Today, shortly after the law is applied, we see that there are many holes in the law that individuals have used to a greater or lesser extent. Why am I saying that? Well, because this law, which has come in a good way to comply with EU legislation and regulations, regulations, directives, is, in fact, a law that I fear will be very often played out. Well, someone noticed when we talk about measures of coercion, so people with mental disorders or mental illness, is there a limit where the measure of coercion comes in unless it is not applicable to persons who are destroying, throwing, breaking or in any other way destroying materially in the household or in any of the cafes, restaurants, offices, courts, etc. Therefore, the coercion measure must not be applied under this law under this legislative proposal. It only enters into force, therefore, if the person with mental disorders is threatened and endangers any health, any life of the other person, or himself. Now, this boarder line to tell me in medicine, so that border line between one and the other is very thin and it's hard for anyone, all those involved in deciding on measures to force that thin line to determine. So, all those involved, which are one multidisciplinary approach to these people with mental disorders, starting with a family doctor, then a psychiatrist, an employee of the Ministry of the Interior, a judiciary or a lawyer. They're all involved. Well, in some ways, and probably on a larger scale and welfare centers. Today it actually seems that somehow it is said here very often in discussions of the entire nation and all the citizens of Croatia in one apathy. In a psychotic depression, I don't mean in terms of illness but in terms of depressed mood, which is not a disease but is indicative. And we wonder if we are in this state in Croatia and who is producing such a situation in the Republic of Croatia? Are the underestimating and manipulative statements that lead citizens to the fact that they no longer believe in this country, that our young people are going abroad? What kind of psychosis is there in some state or state-owned companies that are mostly owned by a state like HRT where no one talks to anyone, where the mobbing is at a high, high level, where people commit suicides, where they relax and change like on a tape of film people, where fear, fear, fear, I would say. What is this state to be declared and how does the people whose state is said to be random feel? What kind of frustration does every resident in this country have to experience when he says his country is random? What frustrations are still flooded when it comes to moving from these parts, or they have mental disorders, and at what level are mental disorders. What frustration does the Croatian people have when someone reports in Belgrade that Gotovina's verdict does not support everyone in Croatia but only some? Or when it is said that the verdict was in The Hague 3:2? It's like we're not all celebrating together, like it's 5-0, and it's the same for me. But he's trying to bring into the mind of a Croatian man something that doesn't belong to him. And then we have frustration, we have apathy, we have depression. And now here we have a law that, by European standards and regulations, solves a lot of things, some things go from the jurisdiction of psychiatry to the jurisdiction of the court, so to the jurisdiction of the court, and then at the end of this assessment of the situation and other issues that need to be settled by this law and the consequences that will arise, says the name of the State Commission for the Protection of Persons with Mental Disruptions in, only in the commission, without state, is no longer a state, but only a commission. Interesting change, very interesting and legitimate. I don't know why it's not state-owned, like the State Statistics Bureau, so it's no longer state-owned but just the Department of Statistics. But good. Therefore, this committee does not have inspection powers, since it is carried out by the Health Ministry's inspection department. Therefore, the inspection from that committee goes into the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health. And it is said that this Republic of Croatia, this law has shown that it takes care to change the paradigm in approach to people with mental disorders, and I have said how expensive, not only statements, but also works in this country, not to say that one mental aspect of the entire people and the state. We are changing, says the paradigm, taking care of the change in the paradigm in the approach to the person with mental disorders who, according to these statistics mentioned in the assessment of the condition, says that about 1033 was treated, from 2010 to 2012, there were 1003 cases of forced hospitalisation of minors, so in 3 years, '10-'12. 1003. So, on average, about 300 to 400 people per year are subjected, so what is said here is a forced procedure, forced hospitalisation of minors. We don't have a reference here, in this juvenile statistic. What will happen to this law and what else happens in a society where very often serious crime, murder, robbery, etc. I'm trying to hide, hide and change through a judicial medical procedure, and the person who did it to avoid or reduce his sentence, and she won that six-month freedom that this law says about, actually gets freedom even though she committed murder or multiple murders. We've had cases like this before. Now only by adopting this law will there be wide open doors for those who, therefore, murderers who may not have any prior registered mental disturbances, through all these institutions and multidisciplinary approaches to obtain freedom after a month of lying in a psychiatric institution of six months, afterwards have to re-emerge to control, as it would say, medical surveillance. And again for six months of freedom. I'm afraid that exactly what we are, not to say in some way, and we are, and how we throw out this law that I've been talking about, about the pre-fashion settlement, we're just going to use it in this sense, and this law, so that we don't actually, I'm not going to help, I'm going to say, but to esculpate those who have done the heavy, the works of the heavy, not the robbery, but those who have done the attack, the attack on people's life and health. That's what I'm afraid of, that's what I'm afraid of. That the application of any, not any, but of this law in which Europe has given its directives, guidelines, provisions, etc., will immediately go in the wrong direction in practice, I am speaking in practice. In the very rights of patients, excuse me, a person, a real person with mental disorders, in Chapter 3, Article 14, writes, there are 17, 19, and then there are other items, it wouldn't be long, it would be long, if I were to list all their rights, so people with mental disorders have the right to be familiar with, at the time of reception, at a later date, at the request to talk to them and to teach him what rights they have, so which rights they have. All of these rights, when someone is being detained through coercion, are rights which, by means of European practice and by means of practice in European countries, are adopted, but as someone said here, each of these people with mental disorders thinks he is not, that he does not need coercion and psychiatric treatment, that he is not actually a sick man, that's what someone from the HSU Club said. Yes, it's true, they resist. Well, we know from practice that, as doctors, they resist it. Few people have to say, well, I'm a sick person and I've done it so, and now, I'm volunteering to go to psychiatric treatment. So they don't consider themselves sick and that's another problem I'm talking about. The increase in forensics is exactly what I just said. So, we're going to come to the point that it's precisely those who have done the hard work against people's lives and health that are going to go to, exactly this forensic part to prove to him that he's a psychiatric patient so that his punishment and treatment are reduced, that his life after that would become relatively, let's say, half-free because after a month of treatment he goes to 6 months of free treatment with supervision, etc. Therefore, all together, this law, and thanks to the practice that it has so far had in this practical part of the implementation, is exactly how it is done and now only that the wide open door to such practice of the HDSSB club will be retained in connection with this law. Just to mention that here it is as if they knew and newspaper articles came out today as it says here in connection with these acts and bombings, knife threats that they'll slaughter us all, etc. Or the one who threatens to cut his family's throat without going with a knife. Is he also subject to this law on methods of coercion when taking him to psychiatric treatment or to acts against a 10-year-old, I would not like to mention what kind of work it is, etc. Is that part of what you're supposed to do at a psychiatrist's treatment? Well, then, six months of freedom, look. There's still talk here about leaving elements for so-called. electroshocks or the setting of an indication that's much more stringent than it's ever been, so we're not talking about the lobotomy that came from 100, 200 years ago in medicine and some biomedical research on people with mental disorders, so that's completely forbidden. Electroshocks, coulvulsions caused by these shocks, are becoming much stricter than it was before, so much stricter indications and will be more rarely applied than previously applied. All the other methods are consistent on the rights of persons with mental disorders and I'm saying I wouldn't be longer. Here I am. [[Intruder Stazic: Bring the end.]] Thank you very much at the right time. So the HDSSB club will be restrained in connection with this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73119	We've reported two replicas to this exhibit. First honorary Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Grubisic, you spoke of frustrations, depressions and apathy that people fall into at the beginning of your speech for a variety of reasons. You've given a lot of legitimate reasons, but I wouldn't agree with you when you said people don't believe in the state. People can't believe in the government in the Parliament in parliamentary deputies, they can be the bad ones, but it's the thesis that often occurs that our people often say in the jargon like that doesn't work, I don't believe in the state because you don't belong to those who think in this case of the state, I know it. But it's not good to hear such words in this High House, as people. The sacrifice is great for this country so people don't believe it. I know you don't think so, but it's not a good idea to put it that way in this House and make that kind of statement. So we don't believe in government government in parliamentary deputies, they're bad but people are still and I'm sure they absolutely believe in the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73121	The replica corresponds to the respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73122	My fellow Sanader, thank you very much for seeing this, and I am in my speech always accompanied by emotions because I live alone with the citizens with the people and I hear well all their thoughts that are actually offended by their mind, the mind is offended. And then they themselves say they're free of such a state. But it's actually an executive authority that produces such frustrations with the people, so not the state, but the executive authority in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73123	Second replica, respected Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73124	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Grubisic and your debate as colleagues, Cvetovic, have shown all the layering of this issue. Of course, you've emphasized this medical professional that I certainly imitate. But speaking of coercion measures, you said how thin that line is and requires a multidisciplinary approach. Of course he does. I was talking in that section about the general family medicine doctor and you were talking about all the other profiles that must be represented by all of them in the end again in each individual case are very much in big problems. It is not easy to solve with one rule book, it should be kept in mind. And that second moment where you were talking about one depressing mood, exactly, and this indicator that talks about the consumption of antidepressants 90 million for calming down so much is talking about the degree of depression, about frustrations mostly our youngest citizens are quite exposed to it. And if we take that basic condition of good health, social well-being if it is what it really is, then that's enough to say just for ourselves. Of course, efforts should be made to improve this social well-being, but the same thing as you emphasized and any publicly spoken word can certainly contribute to depression and depressed mood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73125	The replica corresponds to the respected Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73126	Yes, thank you, colleague Milinkovic, so not only antidepressants but so-called. Anxiolithics that ease the mild form of frustration, neurosis, anxiety, fear that occurs in our people every day. Well, the statements that fall just like that, the budget rebalance... I mean, what people are terrible, the first thing they understand very well is that expression and the second thing I didn't understand it in the first place even though I was a little bit in Brussels, right? And secondly, by making such statements, I simply think that the one who might have thought to gain the sympathy of the public is actually causing disdain. And about the thin thread that is in connection with forced treatment, so whoever destroys furniture, dishes and everything else in the house, throws a plate at the woman, the woman moves away and is not injured, and now, look, it wasn't an attempt to attack her life or her health. So he only broke a plate, and he didn't attack a woman, let's say he had a mental disorder. So that assessment is very, very ticklish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73127	We're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. The first reported a respected Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I think this is a really good and modern law that brings a lot of eagerly expected newspapers that aim primarily to ensure greater and better protection of people with mental disorders. The law makes it seem to me to be a very high degree of balance between what we consider to be the right or protection of the rights of the individual and what we consider to be public security. In this context, the social significance of this law is enormous because it sends a message that persons with mental disorders are actually equally valuable and equal citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that they have rights which the state is obliged to protect. In that sense, the law seems to be contributing to really high standards and creating high standards of a fair social environment. As you know and as we know, procedures for people with mental disorders not only for the protection of public health, not only for the protection of public security sometimes go beyond the framework of medical procedures, and that is why it is important that this population is further protected legally and especially when it comes to the protection of their rights, or when it comes to limiting their rights. The protection of human rights is as important as protecting public health and public security, which, of course, we recognized in Croatia in '97. The year we passed the law, the law that today is subject to certain changes. I think it is logical that it is subject to change because medicine as a science is progressing, but as a society we are developing or progressing, in particular in terms of strengthening the rights of every person to freedom, to health, to safety and naturally the need for better regulation, especially if we take into account the fact that Croatia has entered the European Union and that we have become part of the European social and legal environment. All those who have worked on making this law I think they have done a great job, a good job, an important step, so leading Croatian legal experts and authority in the field of psychiatry, the Ministry of Justice, but also representatives of civil society, and they should be thanked for it. It has been achieved as we have heard and compliance with international standards. Some of the solutions have been taken from the legislation of the European Union countries, of course respecting the context of the Croatian legal system. By signing or ratifying the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, Croatia has undertaken a number of obligations, including a very important identification of persons with disabilities as a subject to the right. Each human being is primarily a person, and it must be viewed as such, independent of any trait that a person has acquired by birth and which in some way has been imposed upon her by society. And in that sense, I really welcome the changes in Article 3 where it gave up the definition of what is a person with a mental disorder, a person with a lighter, with a severe mental disorder. It is precisely with the aim of promoting social equality of persons with mental disorders that seem to me to change the definitions of concepts in a way that defines mental disorders as medical categories. So it's no longer defined as a person so far which makes sense to me and I welcome it. So there's a lot of newspapers. I'm not going into everything, I'm going to mention some that I think are particularly good and that came out of some kind of call it bad practice. So people with mental disorders will not be allowed under the exception of working therapy to be used for work instead of medical staff. So, unfortunately, in recent Croatian history, people with mental disorders were sometimes forced to participate in work activities that involved taking care of another patient, feeding, cleaning, etc. because of high Stigmatization. It is very good that this legislative proposal prescribes that working therapy must be voluntary and determined by a treatment programme and must not cover as I have said medical staff's work assignments. It seems to me that the law, in particular and in a very good way, protects children. The possibility of their decision is given, depending on their age, depending on their maturity. Treatment of children with mental disorders is prescribed which must be separated from minors and finally what I think is also very good, a ban on the use of electroconvulsive therapy and biomedical research on children is also prescribed. So electroconvulsive therapy will be prohibited against children. A person with mental disorders can only be subject to medical treatment if she herself gives written consent and it seems to me that it is unlike oral consent, that there is no room for doubt whether such consent is a day that is very good for people with mental disorders. But I think it also protects a psychiatrist, or a psychiatric institution. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. brings a newspaper that also refers to psychosurgery, electroconvulsion and treatment with this method. What I find interesting is the article, just a moment, I think the article 17 that says that the application of castration to a person with mental disorders for sterilization is not allowed. I suppose this is where they wanted to leave room for the transgenders and the needs they could have. So without further ado, I think this is a modern law that protects the right person with disabilities, to safeguard their dignity. It is very important to mention that by changing the powers of the Committee for the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation from the level of the Ministry of Health at the Ministry of Justice, Croatia also meets the principle of changing the paradigm towards persons with mental disorders. And I believe that in doing so, the Republic of Croatia supports the principle of change, hence the paradigm and is moving away from purely medical access. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73129	Thank you. We're continuing the debate individually. It's my dear colleague Mirela Holly's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73130	Thank you, Vice President. At the beginning of the debate, I would like to say that I will support the proposal for a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders in the first reading, because I believe that this proposal brings a great positive step towards the protection of the rights of persons with mental disorders, and people with mental disorders are one of the most vulnerable and most discriminated against groups in Croatian society. I think it is necessary to defend this proposal from the assembly, because during the public debate, it became clear that there is a great resistance to this bill by the psychiatric profession. Why? Because this proposal introduces modern solutions that are in accordance with international law, which give greater rights to people with mental disorders, and restrict the space of freedom and powers that psychiatrists have so far. From the working group working on this bill, I received information that they were exposed to various indirect pressures so that the content of the legal proposal would return to the past. And that's not good practice. The most dissatisfaction that was not surprising was related to the scope of biomedical research and electroconvulsive therapy. In fact, the draft law tightens the conditions for conducting biomedical research, which certainly places a higher burden on the pharmaceutical industry, which sees its financial interest in such research. Furthermore, electroconvulsive therapy in the Republic of Croatia is currently being conducted in some medical research. These procedures are completely prohibited from agreeing to them by a legal representative, which means that only a person with mental disorders can make a decision about it. I believe that this caused the rebellion precisely because it was easier sometimes to obtain respondents for whom consent would be given by the guardian, and then the respondents did not have to be asked even when they opposed such a procedure. This has led and brought about because it is still possible for serious violations of human rights because there is really nothing to be done and to be asked about it. And that is why it is of great interest to adopt this Law as soon as possible. The legal text improves the provisions in accordance with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights in particular regarding persons with disabilities, the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings as regards the application of biology and medicine, the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Other International Documents and the Law on Criminal Procedure. The lack of the law is that for persons with disabilities more flexible access is put in place and provides judicial protection only for those who oppose accommodation in a psychiatric institution according to the decision of the custodian. I believe that a person with deprived business capacity must also be asked for written consent for accommodation in a psychiatric institution, and if it is dangerous, then conduct a procedure for forced accommodation as well as for other persons who are not deprived of their business abilities. A compromise solution to introduce a special head that regulates accommodation without consent, as that ensures judicial protection for at least those who oppose accommodation in a psychiatric institution. Now I will also look back on some concrete articles of the bill that I find extremely important. Article 8(2) provides that non-adjustment to social norms should not in itself be a reason to make a diagnosis in accordance with the recommendations of the Council of Europe. That provision was opposed by a part of the psychiatrists, believing that only a diagnostic standard, that we had already prescribed a diagnostic standard when we stated that psychiatric diagnosis can only be made based on internationally recognised classifications of mental disorders. However, it is good that the provision is like this because it emphasizes that the environment itself must not be the reason for the diagnosis, by the fact that psychiatrists can camouflage social norms under other diagnosis between national classifications, so they have done so very recently in some cases of homosexuality, and there have been more examples in the past of such treatment of political dissidents. In Article 12(3) of the basic principle, it is introduced that, prior to each medical procedure, the ability of a person to consent to this procedure must be determined. Paragraph 3 provides that this capacity must be determined every time even in a person who has been deprived of his or her ability because it is a mental capacity that can vary. And it's absurd to be a person who, for example, is 10 years ago, the deprived of his business skills now considers him incapable of giving consent. In Article 19(1), (2) and (4), it is proposed to introduce stricter criteria for conducting biomedical research on persons with mental impairment and that authorisation for conducting research should be given by the Committee for the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders, which puts additional protection against existing mechanisms. Secondly, for each individual subject, a positive opinion must be given to the Ethics Commission, which puts the individual benefit of the subjects under consideration so that research cannot be carried out over abstract but concrete persons. And thirdly, the ability to grant consent must be determined by another psychiatrist who is not an employee of the research facility designated by the Committee for the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation in order to minimise the consequences of conflicts of interest resulting from psychiatrists and researchers conducting research on their patients and, therefore, they may be somewhat valued by the doctor-patient relationship. These provisions have prompted recommendations as they make it difficult for the pharmaceutical industry to conduct research on people with mental disorders and, of course, it is also related to financial interests. Article 66 introduces the possibility of independent judicial supervision in the event of the application of a measure of coercion in psychiatric treatment when a person with mental disorders so requests. This is about the protection provided for in Article 3. Conventions on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Protection against Inhumane and Degrading Procedures. In chapter 9, a binding statement makes a brand-new model that has not been known in Croatian legislation, allowing each person to make a predetermined decision on how he wants to be treated in the application of psychiatric medical procedures as well as a person who will make certain decisions in his name, for example. form of power of attorney. Such a solution is present in Anglo-Saxon and continental legal systems, in most Western European countries and significantly improves respect for the rights of persons with mental disorders, given that they are placed on a disposition to make decisions on how they will be treated in case they lose their capacity to consent. A similar solution is provided for in the provisions of the Family Law proposal, which is soon to be read again, in line with Article 12. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, although not entirely because it is still being maintained. the concept of mental capacity that the cited convention does not know. In the public debate, there was a dispute over this provision since the psychiatric profession believes it is better to leave a person in such a situation to the Centre for Social Care, but this would again lead to human rights violations because the Centre for Social Care through the guardians can only make decisions if a person is limited by business capacity. In order to prevent unnecessary restrictions on business ability, a binding statement has been put in place because the decision on medical procedures of persons with mental disorders can be organised in advance without the need to involve public authorities. In accordance with the Conventions on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of Persons with Mental Disabilities, they shall take precedence over decisions by state bodies when it comes to issues closely related to their personality. In the hope that as soon as we pass this law, I hope that no time will pass until the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73131	Thank you. We have a single replica reported. Dear Dujomir Marasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73132	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, my colleague Holly, you've said a lot of things here that I'd agree with but I'd have a lot of replicas, I don't know what I'd say. I mean, let's all drop off a little bit of these electroshocks. You know what, today they're used when sorrow, misery, misery don't know what you're going to do anymore, let's do that, and it's not just in psychiatry. So imagine how many people are dying of cancer, he knows he can't live but a month and a person and friends and relatives and states and still go to some treatment, so if anything helps him. It's the same as electroshocks. So we can ask ourselves why people act like that, and we all approve of it. That's the level. But something else I wanted to say, you're here to look back on that shrinks are giving some resistance to this. I understand them, because in Croatia we are in harmony with everything and everything and we have separated with ourselves and with the smartness and interests of the state. What's the interest of society? One person in the hospital works in such a place that if he works for eight hours he can endanger life, kill, 100 people at least. She's been coming, for eight years she can't take away her ability to work. In the end, she was taken away from her work ability by a doctor, and then those institutions annuled her by taking away her work ability and returning her to work. And she says there's an atomic power plant in the uterus from Chernobyl. Is that person clear to everyone that he can't? And she's returning that commission's institution to work, and the director can't go back to work because the lives of 100 people and more are at stake. What are we doing to protect the state? You can't just talk, this law has to have two sides. The protection of patients' rights but must also be the protection of the public, i.e. the protection of the state and the protection of society as a whole. It must have some better couplings. Unfortunately, under various pressures from the media, we threw everything at the patient's protection. I'm willing to do whatever is done in that sense but we've ignored the interests of the whole society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73133	The replica matches the esteemed Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73134	Dear colleague Marasovic, I must admit that I did not fully understand what you wanted to say because I believe it is the obligation of the state to protect human rights as much as possible. Human rights must not be traded, they must not be calculated, they must not be established of a higher interest in this regard. And that is why it is our obligation as a representative of the legislative authority, and ultimately the representatives of the executive government, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to do everything in their power to raise the standards of respect for human rights as much as possible. It's our civilization at the end of our obligation. And I really didn't fully understand what you meant by it being necessary to balance the rights of people with mental disorders and the rights of society, if I understood you, I think the responsible state must work on maximum protection of human rights, especially of such vulnerable members of society. [[Intruding Stazic: A colleague of Marasović, you can't argue like this.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73135	We're continuing an individual debate. The esteemed representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister with an associate. Here, I'm going to pick up where my colleague Holly started, which is precisely in the most vulnerable group of our fellow citizens, people with mental disorders who, very easily, can be victims of abuse and I think they are at risk much more than others, or the risk of human rights violations. That is why I support this Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, because it protects human rights. These people, or that group of citizens, must have a lot of problems, and this law actually regulates a part of their problem. In fact, the law doesn't even deal with the rights of any patients outside psychiatric institutions. I must also point out that this category, a person with disabilities, is in a more unfavourable position, not only in relation to people with disabilities, but also in relation to other people with disabilities, precisely because of the vulnerability we mentioned. This law is also adopted for the sake of harmonisation, the need to comply with international documents, with conventions, and also to comply with the Criminal Procedure Act. In Croatia today there are about 4,000 people with mental disorders living in homes for mentalally ill adults because we haven't really developed any more conditions that we can do real institutionalisation, which doesn't mean we're not working in that direction. Since this is about protecting human rights, and I said that it's only one segment of the problem that people have, I have to stress here that part of the medically, medically, that it's changed in the last two decades, which is that there are fewer forced treatments, that shorter hospitalizations, that there has been progress and scientific knowledge, progress has also been made in therapeutic options and new psychopharmacies to various other psychosocial methods of treatment. In this law, I welcome the regulation of the area of forced hospitalisation because we know that the Police Attorney and Advocate for Persons with Disabilities have come very often from such persons, more strongly now the control of the mechanism of which we expect to actually significantly reduce the possibility of abuse of the Institute of Forced Accommodation. I agree with a colleague who emphasized that he is somewhere on the boarderline, so it is very difficult to make that one line, or that decision on all those actors involved. I support the proposal, I think it is, we discussed it on the board, so I think that this is the Ombudsman's opinion, that, within the definition of consent, it includes all the characteristics of the informational consent, which means that it is actually not stated anywhere that a person with mental disorders should be informed clearly, i.e. in a way that is suitable for her ability to understand the relevant circumstances of her illness and the proposed treatment. You'll say, that's understood, yes, but the informational consent knows what it means, so it would be good to put it into law. We've heard a lot of disagreements about... treatment today and he's here well protected, in fact, is protected from abuse which is very important here to emphasize. With that there is still a medical indication, if there is one she will be implemented. And, of course, it clearly says here that it's urgent interventions when all the other treatments are previously exhausted. So I think there's a very good emphasis here on just protecting against... treatment, or not being abused. I also welcome, in fact, I would now look back at Article 14, when the right person with mental disorders is listed, is also talking about limiting these rights. But here I would actually kind of side by side with psychiatrists, support them that problems exist in practice because when you talk about rights, then it's actually said how to ban visits, let's say suspicious visitors who go to these persons of problematic behavior, in which way, it actually writes there if they agree on committing a crime. However, there are various examples of practices that are not mentioned here, which can actually create problems. When we talk about unconditional rights, it is possible that it can also bring additional Stigmatizing of such persons. Because when you look at the integration of awareness of your own value, quality as a human being, rights and obligations and responsibilities towards yourself and others, it's actually one of the main goals of psychosocial treatment that might actually strengthen that person or restore him to function. Today, there were also speeches about this state commission, namely in the explanation it stands in one sentence of separation from the field of medicine, but that is, if we're going to take it out of context, then we can interpret it that way. However, I think that is clear why this is the reason why the transfer of competence for establishing a committee from the Ministry of Health at the Ministry of Justice is precisely in the fact that the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is completely abandoned by medical access to persons with disabilities, and that is the majority of people with mental disorders and is replaced by a legal and social model that stresses the protection of the rights of persons with mental disorders. And that's exactly why I welcome this article, in this way, people with mental disorders have rights entities, not just objects that create space for their greater protection. Here I think this is a major step in respecting the human rights of mentally ill persons and what we can say and repeat again from increased protection, from new rights, from working therapy that it must be affirmative, not exploited as so far, then by the police to protect dignity and according to doctor's instructions, then accommodation without consent. It is also important to stress that the reduced retention of 72 to 42 hours in the facility and this reduced retention has increased more protection. Then I also welcome the debate on the decision to detain in the rooms of psychiatric institutions because it is a very important personal contact of the judge in the person concerned. So this is all one big step for human rights, and I must stress that people with mental disorders have a big problem ahead of them and it is up to us as a society to protect them in other areas as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73137	Thank you. The next is Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The proposal for a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders on behalf of the HNS club was spoken by Mr. Jozo Radoš and I clearly support his debate, and I will try to contribute to my debate. Human rights are universal, belong to every person everywhere, every person regardless of the place of birth, origin, property status, sex, age, religious or any other tradition, race, or any other trait. We're all born with four natural rights, right to life, right to security, right to freedom and right to happiness. We're all equal before the law. But there are special rights, and there are rights that are above those rights. They are the rights of persons with disabilities and they are rights above the rights of other persons, and people without disabilities have an obligation to enable and exercise those special rights to persons with disabilities. These rights are clearly cared for by the State. People with mental disorders are people with disabilities. It seems to me that both too long and too much transition in Croatia to get out of the enamel and communist-socialist arrangements, war, crime in conversion and privatisation, thus destroying the real values partially damaged both as people and as a society. There are no firmer points of true values to which man today could rely either among persons or among institutions. What has been offered for the past 20 years are success through illegal affairs, corruption, nepotism, haughtiness, demeaning of all valuable individuals and institutions, egalising everything and everyone, bringing all phenomena and people to a common negative emphasis. This leads to the escape of young truly valuable people in the country, leading to hiding and escaping into the anonymity of intellectuals and top experts and managers to a negative selection of public spheres of life especially in politics. Fear is present, fear of an imaginary bad, bad man who is yet to threaten the fear of imaginary personal accidents that must be coming to us. The trend is to turn to the past, the traditional values that are the grenade of such stability security. Everything that is advanced, modern and modern is far from reachable, insecure, and dangerous. All these phenomena have made us more selfish and self - centered. We have become undetected in our daily lives, without compassion, without the incentive to help our neighbor daily. We use excuses that all the goals are higher out there somewhere that, on our own consciousness and conscience, amnesty is amnesty from responsibility to one another, against the next and against the community. The individual struggle is becoming more difficult, and social actions are aimed at destruction. But in all this socio-moral confusion often and impotence, we have no right to irresponsibility against those who need us most. They're primarily people with disabilities. And some of the most affected people with disabilities are people with social disorders. And that's why this law is so important and special. And this bill is another of the positive effects of Croatia's entry into the EU because the law in most parts is in line with all conventions, in particular the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Convention on the Protection of the Rights and Dignity of a Human Being as regards the application of biology and medicine and the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This law also implements one of the general measures implementing the European Court of Human Rights ruling on the case of xy against Croatia. This bill significantly improves legal solutions for the protection of persons with mental disorders from a fundamental principle through the rights of persons with mental disorders, special medical procedures and... research. It prepares and improves the protection of the confidentiality of data and medical documentation, the specialisation of judges who decide in county courts in the procedures of forced accommodation in a psychiatric institution is prescribed. Newspapers have been introduced, the possibility of replacing forced accommodation in psychiatric treatment at large. With all the other improvements, I, like my colleagues and colleagues before me, would have singled out the whole article 2 that talks about protecting people with mental disorders in the way they are being realized. In Article 6, I would single out paragraph 2 where it says that a person with mental disorders located in a psychiatric institution has the right to equal treatment conditions and standards, as well as persons located in other health institutions. Article 7, dignity of a person with mental disorders must be protected and respected in all circumstances. Article 2. Persons with mental disorders shall be entitled to protection against any form of exploitation, abuse and inhuman or humiliating treatment. Article 8, I think that, too, my colleague Holly said the same thing in Article 2. The non-adjustment in social norms must not in itself be a reason for setting a psychiatric diagnosis. Article 13, any forced detention in a psychiatric institution shall be subject to judicial supervision under the procedure laid down in this law. In paragraph 2, procedures under the provisions of this law are urgent. These are all important articles of this law, along with all the others and the whole chapter 3 that speak of the rights of persons with mental disorders. And it is good in my opinion that three ministries and three ministers are in charge of solving the problems under this law and implementing this law. Perhaps the fourth ministry, the Ministry of Social Welfare, could be included in certain parts. However, regardless of any improvement and any quality legal solutions, there will be no significant or at least significant shifts in the protection of persons with mental disorders unless this law is fully respected and we continue to look at the areas and conditions of persons with mental disorders. Our institutions, hospitals, wards of hospitals for people with mental disorders are in general and suits in the worst condition, ugly, abandoned, with criminally dangerously poor installations, working conditions and methods from the end of the 18th century. Patients are located in crowded rooms with inhuman sanitary knots, with equipment that satisfys mere survival and nothing more. In these and such conditions, staff is the primary task of maintaining peace, order and hygiene, and treatment and rehabilitation are only in second place. Such a condition is inadmissible. Last year we read that the mayor of Zagreb visited the geriatric ward of the psychiatric hospital in Vrapac and it was agreed in principle that the refurbishing of that one of the most inhumane places in general, places where some people live in their last days, would be joined by the reorganization of 2015. That department, that inhuman dying place that the average man can't even imagine in black thoughts where people on the... department are all located in a room where they're tied up in broken hospital beds with a rusty sanitary knot, where they're waiting for something to collapse. This department requires a refurbishment immediately, and current patients should be immediately transferred to more humane conditions and treated as patients and human beings entirely and with the highest possible attention. But as agreed, this will begin to be resolved eventually only in 2015. Well done. Unfortunately, the bill does not solve these issues. This bill if adopted after the second reading takes effect only on 1 September of this year, from that moment on with full application we will be able to say that Croatia is a more humane state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73139	Thank you. We have one replica. Dujomir Marasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73140	I could really use this opportunity for a replica of my colleagues. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. My friend, you said that people were running away from Croatia because of fear because they were anxiety, so that turned out to be running away from these psychos. My colleague, people in Croatia are not running away because of fear, but because they have no job and have no living conditions, because they have no food and no money, which they have no pleasures, and they are not scared because they are psychotic, but they are scared if they are scared, and I am scared of the situation in the country. Here I am today terrified of this terrible situation when the Vice President of the Parliament says today that the president of the HDZ is a criminal because 10 years ago, a brother of a journalist was hired in prayer there in a series of intelligence services, Colloquial and says... in the UDBA, and he and his government of our Mr. Vice President-President-in-Office, who runs this session, has hired a thousand people without competitions and they run the state, not to talk over in court some petty spy. So what can he do to endanger the state? These will endanger the state, thousands were taken without competitions and comrades said we took them without competitions because they have such eye color so we prefer them, because they have such political conviction because they are ours and that's fair. And they're not a threat to national security. That's why I'm scared, that's why we should all be scared, and that's why I won't run from Croatia, but here's the chance to say this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73141	You're saying something to the vice president of the Parliament who's running the session so he can't answer you. ... (Laughter) [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You attacked me here, so I don't know what to do right now, is wait for you to throw me in a kevin pit or jump into it. ... Do we have an answer? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73142	Thank you very much. My colleague Marasovic, clearly as usual, did not listen to me as most of you do not listen to what others say, because I did not speak at all about what you were saying. I was talking about something else completely, and you're wrong, I've got it all written down. I write my every debate because I say not smart enough, but it's a terrible responsibility to those I speak to, and I speak to the public first. You didn't listen to what I was saying. I was talking about a general condition that lasts from the 1990s to today. And this condition hasn't occurred in the last two years. If you really think this condition has arisen in the last two years, it's an honor to you. That's just not true. And as for the fears that you're imposing at this point on your president, I'd be wondering if people who aren't HDZ voters who aren't members of the HDZ are going to throw them into some kind of pit that supports your same president you were talking about earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73143	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear representative Ljiljana Cvetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73144	Dear Vice President, dear Deputy Minister with a colleague, colleague and colleague. This bill is much more complex than previous ones in the scope of the protection of patients' rights in accordance with all European and world documents that regulate the area of human rights entirely of persons with mental disorders, persons with disabilities and wider overall citizenship. It fully respects the provisions of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings as regards the application of biology and medicine, the Convention for the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and European documents for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. All these documents kind of alter the paradigm of action and the protection of the rights of persons with mental disorders. The social model gradually takes a more significant place and role compared to a medical model that may be the most represented in this sensitive group of citizens. Probably part of the reason for slower changes towards the social model lies in the fact that it is a group whose interests are traditionally more represented by family members and other close ones than they do themselves. Following daily practical problems faced by people with mental disorders, the bill promotes provisions that prescribe voluntary accommodation. Positive shifts are seen in provisions that regulate the protection of children with mental disorders. More significantly processed and expanded area in which the rights of persons with mental disorders are regulated while in psychiatric institutions. News and in the conduct of active voting rights during stay in a psychiatric institution in accordance with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Under the same Convention, it is not possible to agree with a legal representative for special medical procedures. A significant newspaper in this proposal is the introduction of a new category of accommodation without consent in addition to voluntary and forced accommodation. This category refers to persons with mental disorders for whom consent was given by a trustee or a legal representative. Provisions related to the participation of persons with mental disorders in the debate in court have also been improved by the provision of mandatory participation of persons with mental disorders in the debate and must be held in a psychiatric institution, not in a court of law. What's unusual on the social side, and it's sticking to the eye, is article 67, which talks about coercion measures in welfare institutions. It is necessary to prescribe expert supervision of the application of these measures. For example, if the Ombudsman visits social institutions for disabled persons, he shall review the lists of persons who have forced measures. In fact, an employee psychiatrist is not enough to provide a recommendation for forced measures when explained by his staff. There isn't a single person in this whole story. Perhaps there are more vulnerable persons with another type of difficulty, and there are also mental disorders of people with intellectual disabilities, autists, older, powerless, and some people routinely bond for years. In any event, the adoption of the provisions of the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities implies the adoption of the main objective of all measures, which is integration into the social community. However, we must stress the dissatisfaction with the lack of an extra-patient rehabilitation programme for people with mental disorders. Croatia is one of the few European states that has not taken a significant step towards establishing a service for the treatment of mental disorders in the community. The Community mental health service includes daily centres, rehabilitation centres and a mobile crisis intervention team, care for people who often use hospital treatment, help with employment. It is therefore necessary to draw up a plan and way of implementing a reform of the Mental Health Service according to the model of psychiatry in the community, which involves gradually reducing the bed in large psychiatric hospitals and opening a treatment programme in the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73145	Thank you. We have one replica, dear Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73146	Yes, thank you, Mr. Vice President. My esteemed colleagues have, however, been particularly intrigued by this observation of yours now over the measures of coercion towards those with severe mental disturbances. Much has been said today, but I think too little about whether and to what extent in psychiatric institutions there are abuses of the necessary measures when it comes to measures against mental patients. Article 61 provides that these measures can only be applied and exceptionally, if that is the only means of removing the immediate danger arising from its behaviour, which is seriously and directly endangering either its own or its own life. I don't think that we should close our eyes or in front of very frequent complaints from patients who have been treated in psychiatric treatment institutions who, after going out, talk about being subjected to unwarranted measures of coercion and no one takes them seriously or accepts them because they say they are persons with mental disorders. I believe that we should also make good control of our psychiatric institutions in order to justify or justify such complaints to patients or to prove correct or correct. This should also be taken into account in particular when it comes to the adoption of certain legal provisions. I'm a doctor but I'm not sure and I don't even believe it, not that I'm not sure that that information is accurate, but I believe that in many cases there has been abuse by employees in certain psychiatric institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73147	Time's up. Ljiljana Cvetovic corresponds to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73148	My dear colleague, I think we're completely in agreement. I also said in my own presentation that an employee psychiatrist is not enough, say, to say the least because they have a contract psychiatrist who makes a recommendation for coercion. And that it should be regulated in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73149	The final minutes belong to the deputy justice minister to the respected Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank you for the debate, and I especially thank you for your support and for recognising our efforts to raise our relationship and affirmation provisions and our treatment and our relationship with people with mental disorders to a higher level. In this regard, I am pleased to note the importance of the provision of Article 8(2) in which we predicted that non-adjustment to social norms should not in itself be a reason for setting a psychiatric diagnosis. As a result of greater protection of persons with mental disorders and in order to prevent the easy diagnosis of psychiatric diagnosis, a definition of psychiatric diagnosis has also been introduced in line with the principles of protection of persons with mental illnesses and improvement of mental health protection, and in line with the Council of Europe's recommendation on the protection of human rights and dignity of persons with mental disorders. So the psychiatric diagnosis must be based on valid internationally recognised classifications of mental disorders. Those newspapers that have been passed by law and which are recognized but which we really want to highlight are new rights in relation to persons with mental disorders, the right to vote, the right to work therapy and its predictability, the requirement to be voluntary, to be determined by a treatment programme and that in no way can it cover the tasks of medical staff. In relation to police treatment, we have introduced a newspaper to which persons, or police, in dealing with persons with mental disorders during the intervention should use increased and special attention by protecting the dignity of the person and following the instructions of the doctor. With regard to the doubt that the law will be well implemented, we are affirmative and positive both towards the persons who are working in this segment and given the education and progress actually in awareness of this problem, we are convinced that this application will be appropriate. It was about forced measures, so I'd like to make it clear that the coercion measures are left out as a possibility if it's only damage or destruction of property. Therefore, in an effort to establish an appropriate ratio, i.e. proportionality with regard to the use of the coercion measure, we want to put an emphasis on the application of desecration measures, so that non-violent measures should be taken in conversation with the patient, persuasion, relocated to another department or similar activities to avoid this phenomenon of coercion measures and when this is not necessary. Another mechanism of control that we have predicted is the obligation of the psychiatric institution to report to the Committee for the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation on the application of measures forced twice a year, and here we specifically wanted to protect children and we have made an obligation to inform the Committee on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders by the institution of any application of the measure of coercion towards the child.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73151	Dear Deputy, this is the opening argument, what you're saying now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73152	Thank you very much. Since I left him out and I was stopped for others, I wanted to use this. So, I'm gonna cut short because that's how you're asked of me. I'm glad you recognized the meaning of this law. Until the second reading, we will make repairs and comply with those proposals that have been set up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73153	I thank you, too. We have one replica, dear Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73154	Thank you. I will again touch something that really worries me, and I must admit that I am worried about one reason because as chairman of the Board of Appeals and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament I often have the opportunity to see exactly the complaints and on this subject. And I repeat as a doctor, I'm concerned that there are cases of violations of the rights of persons with mental disorders in the number of psychiatric institutions. And I believe that this should be taken seriously and that this requires thorough control, not only of the Ministry of Justice but of the Ministry of Health. Here it is beautifully written in this proposal and in Article 14 which are all real persons with mental disorders. If all of this was respected, then many of those people who really have problems shouldn't even be in that psychiatric facility, you know. But we have cases, it can't happen that a person who refuses to take pills is subject to coercion measures because it's a violation of fundamental and human rights, and it's also a violation of patient rights, especially if it doesn't endanger his life and endangers the life of the environment. So, please, and when we have article 74, I mean, when we talk about the commission we can jump, maybe we can do the same here, I wouldn't put five psychiatrists in that committee, there's 11 here, but I'd put four of them out of law school, and I'd strengthen the one who protects patients' rights, not from one, but two members. Don't be... sued,...you judge.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73155	This replica corresponds to the respected deputy justice minister, Sandra Artuković Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73156	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we're in agreement. Namely, the bill is thus drawn up to prevent these phenomena you've been talking about. In this regard, in the event of abuse in the application of the coercion measures, there are available, so this imposed mandatory application to the commission, we have changed the composition of the commission and you can see it in the proposal. There is also inspection surveillance, and there is, of course, the possibility of requiring judicial protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73157	Thank you. I thank the Deputy Minister for his participation in the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73158	Proposal for a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders, first reading, P.Z. No. 612. The debate on the draft law is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders is passed. Secondly, all objections and proposals and opinions shall be referred to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please raise your hand so we can state who's to suggest a conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I find that we have reached the proposed conclusion unanimously with 106 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73159	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, first reading, P.Z. No. 618 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr Evelyn Tonkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73160	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and parliamentary representatives. As a reason for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Authorities, it was that, during the conduct of police officers under the current Law on Police Affairs and Powers, we saw certain indetermination of certain provisions thereof and the need to do so, for their different regulations and certain nomotechnical shortcomings in the legal text. The next reason was that on 15 December 2013, the law amending and supplementing the Law on criminal proceedings with which amendments and additions were primarily drawn up to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Number II 448 and, secondly, as the above amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act are removed among other things, certain structural deficiencies in the normative arrangement of the effectiveness of the previous investigation process, it was also necessary to bring the Law on Police Affairs and Powers in line with the newly established legal framework adopted by these amendments and complemented by the Criminal Procedure Act. In this connection, the creation of amendments and additions to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers has been approached to remove, firstly, and to correct the observed irregularities, i.e. the content of the law has been no-technically improved. Under b, the law lays down provisions which comply with the latest amendments and additions of the Criminal Procedure Act. And the third, under c, added provisions aimed at introducing both different and stronger control over the application of certain police powers, in a way that will reconcile the need... for police supervision and the need for urgent and effective use of police powers so that police can respond to the requirements for effective crime prevention and the detection and processing of perpetrators of criminal offences, particularly the most difficult forms of criminal offences. As the Law on Police Affairs and Powers following the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, notified in the European Commission and in the Council and in the European Central Bank, it was necessary to include in the law a provision on the transposition of the following framework decisions by this Law on the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and this Council Framework Decision of 1306 2002 on joint investigation teams and Council Framework Decision of 27 November 2008 on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal cases. The concept of criminal research has been redefined, i.e. it has been expanded and adapted to the real and real frameworks of police conduct. Under this proposal, criminal research would cover those powers, measures and actions that police take when they reveal, within their jurisdiction, crimes and offences, a search for their perpetrators or finds and provides clues to what extent and reach the concept of consent with real criminal practice. In this way, so far, doubts about the overall and widespread application of police powers that are interdependent and unambiguous for full consideration of criminal research would be removed, regardless of the legal provisions of that power. In this regard, the results of the crimes may be considered an integral part of the criminal research which makes the proposal for a new resolution more clearly defined and the doubts that arise in practice. The paper also introduces the notion of analytical processing that allows the police to assess the justification for criminal research or to represent its component. It is also proposed to amend that provision in full, in order to address the real problems identified in the implementation of the provision of Article 7 of the relevant Law on the provision of assistance at the request of the court of the State lawyer, the body of the state administration or the legal person with public authority in the exercise of the actions of those parts of the assistance. According to the current formulation, the police are obliged to assist those bodies in carrying out the operation of those bodies. It should be pointed out that, as a rule, those bodies should carry out their actions on their own and should only ask the police for assistance in situations where they are reasonably expected to resist the conduct of their actions. This does not, of course, mean that the police will not always provide assistance, given that the provision of assistance and intervention is subject to the provisions of Article 6 of the relevant law. However, the applicant considers that the proposed formulation is that aid is to be provided if, when implementing the act, those bodies are reasonably expected to provide more precise resistance and ensures that the aid is not required in advance to carry out all the actions of those bodies, for example, different inspection controls which should nevertheless be carried out independently. In practice, the situation has been rarely recorded that individual inspection services have addressed the police expecting that by using their powers, the police will allow them to carry out inspection surveillance that, for example, the responsible person in the legal person is obstructing them. However, in most cases the prevention of inspection surveillance is prescribed as a separate offence and it would be right for inspection officers to submit the indictments and take all other available actions for which they are authorised. Furthermore, the adoption of the proposed amendments to Article 7 does not raise a general obligation for the police to assist courts prescribed by the Court Act, nor does the aid required by the provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure in a broader sense be provided to the State's attorney. Furthermore, there have been cases of finding a suspicious object that poses a direct danger to the lives or health of people or a danger to property, which, for the sake of its properties, was not possible in a safe way to transfer it to another place where it would be destroyed. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the law are proposed to establish the authority of police officers to destroy such an item at the site of discovery if they cannot make it safe or in a safe way to transfer it to another place. The provisions on the verification of the establishment of telecommunications contacts, so-called procurement of communications lists, have been amended in full. For the sake of more precise terms, the name of this police authority itself has been changed and this authority is proposed to call for a verification of the establishment of electronic communication. There are clearly cases in which this authority can be applied, namely the prevention and detection of crimes for which it is prosecuted by official duty and by their perpetrators, the prevention of the danger of violence and the search for persons and objects. In addition, the power to determine the position of the communication device is prescribed, to identify the place where the persons who establish electronic communication and the device identification code are located. Extending the powers to determine the position of the communication device is necessary in order to apply the powers when searching for persons. Furthermore, it is proposed to prescribe which persons may grant written approval to carry out the verification of the establishment of electronic communication. Those persons are precisely defined according to their functions with a level not lower than the chief of police administrations or the person replacing it. Therefore, there is no possibility of transferring this power to other levels or persons. An exception is the possibility that authorisation may be given orally in urgent situations in order to prevent immediate danger or violence or to seek hastily for persons in which cases it must be written confirmed within 24 hours. As an important newspaper, it is required that the approval to verify the establishment of electronic communication should be based on the facts from which it is apparent that other actions could not or will not be able to achieve the objective of police work or would be linked to disproportionate difficulties. So it's basically a subsidiary application of this police authority. A police authority has also been defined to take undercover police actions in a way that is prescribed and ambushed in addition to observation, escorts and traps. In addition to the fact that these actions can be carried out subsidically in cases where other actions cannot achieve the objective of police work. A covert observation and escort may take 15 days with the possibility of extending them for another 15 days. A written order to carry out an escort and observation may only be issued by the Chief Director of the Police or by the person authorised to do so. And in the event of an extension of these actions, only the Chief Director of Police. It also provides for the possibility of giving oral orders to carry out these actions, with mandatory written confirmation no later than 24 hours from the date of issue. It is also prescribed that persons may issue an order to conduct covert police actions, traps and ambushes that may persist as long as there are reasons for their application. Finally, as a newspaper in order to enable effective control of their implementation, covert observation and escort actions are required to report to the competent state attorney and chief police director within 48 hours of their completion. Amendments to the provisions on the protection of police officers after the use of coercion funds have been prescribed that the Ministry of Interior will provide legal assistance to a police officer in a procedure that precedes the criminal proceedings, criminal proceedings and damages to police affairs carried out in accordance with the law. According to Article 98 of the current law, the Ministry of the Interior is obliged to provide free legal assistance to police officers, whether or not they acted or applied police powers legally or not, leading to a situation where legal aid to taxpayers was paid and persons reported for suspected war crimes. The Ministry of the Interior is obliged to pay legal aid to police officers when they are being prosecuted and led on suspicion that they have given away official secrets, received bribes or in some other way illegal but also criminally misused police powers. The same conditions for providing free legal assistance are also prescribed for citizens who provide police officers with assistance in their affairs. As a newspaper, it is prescribed that the MUP be given the necessary medical and psychosocial assistance to a police officer who uses firearms in his police work. Furthermore, these amendments and additions, in accordance with the Ombudsman's proposals for persons with disabilities in the applicable laws, include provisions that prescribe police treatment of persons with disabilities and persons deprived of their business capacity. These provisions aim to ensure additional safeguards, i.e. additional protection against the violation of the rights of these persons in the event of police conduct. An important paper that brings these amendments and the additions to the law is the introduction of civil oversight over the application of certain police powers and the verification of the establishment of electronic communications and hidden police actions. In this context, it is proposed to set up a Civil Surveillance Council over the application of certain police powers which may be exercised after the completion of the criminal investigation during which those powers have been applied. The Council would be empowered to request a comparison of the data available with the information provided by the Directorate of the Police on the applicable powers referred to in Article 68 when carrying out controls under its jurisdiction. The law. Such a comparison of data is necessary to exercise effective control over the exercise of powers, but in no case does not mean the introduction of the powers of the OTC Supervisory Council. It is also proposed that issues of importance for the work of the Council be governed by the Act of the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, the proposed provisions would prescribe the composition of the council in a way that makes it five representatives of citizens appointed and resolved by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament and that a police officer of the Police Department participates in the work of the Council. Members of the council would perform the function as an honorary function. A member of the Council could not be a person who is not a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, who is a member of political parties, for whom there are security obstacles identified by a security check, who is convicted or against it shall be subject to a criminal offence for which he is prosecuted under official duty and who is convicted or prosecuted for a violation of the nature of violence or for a serious offence for which the sentence of prison is prescribed. Finally, the obligations of Council members to keep the confidentiality of the information they have learned by participating in the work of the Council have been established. The other proposed amendments and additions to the provisions on certain police powers have corrected certain perceived deficiencies or added content which has been found to be missing or no-technically corrected in practice. It is important to mention the provision of Article 3a relating to the recording of the conduct of police duties and the application of police powers which must be announced in advance, which should primarily protect citizens from the improper application of police powers, as well as police officers against unfounded complaints against their conduct and should also serve as an effective means of preventing corruption against criminal offences, etc., with a completely new increase in legality, one level of increasing lawfulness in handling and reducing the number of attacks against police officers. Finally, the amended Article 11a and the added Articles 11a to 11f comply with the provisions of the law with the amendments of the Criminal Procedure Act in the part of the conduct of the criminal investigation, the examination of criminal offences. Basic and professional conditions for police investigators have been laid down and a provision on the independence of criminal research has been introduced in cases where there are grounds for doubting that a police officer is the perpetrator or victim of a criminal offence. The proposer concludes that, in the proposed way, in particular the amendments and additions to Articles 68 and 80 of the applicable law and the introduction of civilian control over the application of certain police powers, an appropriate balance will be reached between the justified need of the police to apply those hidden measures in preventing and processing the most serious forms of criminal offences with legitimate public requirements for the exercise of legal control, the application of such measures by police officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73161	I thank the respected Evelyn Tonkovic for this preliminary presentation of the content of the law. The Republic has Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73162	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy, just like the Vice President of the Parliament said. I have an objection to this opening statement because some things that are essential to me are essential precisely from the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers. I'm interested in these powers because I have a specific case I've been looking for, a written response from the ministry. Namely, fuel thefts from construction machines appeared on the 5C corridor by the Sava River. The Vrpolje police station was tasked with detecting and bringing in criminals stealing fuel from construction machines. I asked you why the case against a police officer was conducted, so whoever brought him in, so he took those people in and used a shot in the air. The answer was that it was a minor, that therefore a criminal, a thief was an elderly minor or a younger man however you please. So, did he know at midnight that it was an elderly minor, whether he had the right to fire a shot in the air not according to this person and why the border police of the Republic of Croatia, and in contact with drug dealers, trafficking people etc. There's no right to use firearms if a criminal is running away from him by shooting in the air, not people, but by shooting in the air. That's not what you've done with this law. There's not a single point to it. So the border police can only grab the fugitives with their hands or with a slingshot to shoot them. There's no other way. How they're gonna do it, and they're wearing a three-frame era. They're carrying free, we're just burdening them with these frames and the era. What makes the border police wear an era with three frames that I don't understand, and there's no right to use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73163	No answer, but no wonder. This is no replica of what the deputy minister was saying, no replica. This is what's in the debate. Sign up for a debate, so argue. I ask if the Committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the respected Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has actually discussed one fundamental issue, and this is a question of the motion to introduce civil oversight of those measures and has been assessed, although it is seen as an important democratic step that could improve police work and increase the standard of protection of human rights. However, as regards civil oversight, the Committee is of the opinion that the proposed model of civil surveillance is not fully regulated and that there are open issues that should be considered more closely before the second reading of the law. The debate pointed to the fact that when it comes to civil oversight of police and security services under current legislation, there are always two supervisory bodies. Under the Law on Police, the Commission was established to work on complaints at the Ministry of the Interior and under the Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia, a Council for Civil Control of Security Intelligence agencies was established. The proposed law would also set up a third body of civil oversight of the Civil Surveillance Council over the application of certain police powers, so that although some of the different competences would exist, there would be two relevant bodies, which exercise civil oversight over the activities and powers of the Ministry of the Interior. It has been pointed out that the key issue of how to ensure effective and economic surveillance, which has not yet been achieved by the current legal solution. In seeking an appropriate solution, it should be demonstrated in the debate that the Commission's work on complaints in the MUP has continued to take place. This body, which has 3 members of which, in accordance with the legal solution, is one police officer from the MUP, two of whom appoints this Assembly Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities on a proposal for a civil society that engages in volunteering, since no funding is provided in the law, that commission. A similar or almost the same concept of the bill is provided for by the Civil Oversight Council for the application of certain police notices. So that would be by doing a pro bono, volunteering one photocopy of this first council. According to the report submitted by the Commission to the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities for the first year of its work in the MUP, it received 221 items of which, of which only 50 cases were managed. So, 77% of the cases failed to look at at all. The commission failed to act during that reporting year means three-quarters of the cases. On the basis of previous experience, the members of the Committee point out that this body is unable to provide answers to the complainants within a prescribed 90-day period, and that the existing legal framework will inevitably lead to an extension of deadlines by more than 180 days, which has a major impact on citizens' rights achieved. As a reason for such a situation, which should be taken into account when the proposed solution is governed by the Civil Surveillance Council, the remaining under-determined work and powers, the unresolved status of volunteer members, the issue of replacement is not resolved unless there is no relevant service to assist a member in the work of volunteers, etc. because of his work and other obligations. These are all things that are not small enough to look at first sight, but they burden the work of that council that can't actually work. This other council would have exactly the same problems. Finally, it was also pointed out that the bill does not define the qualifications of members of the council which would be a guarantee of its effective work, given that it is specific jobs and that independence in the work of the council is important if the work of the council is based on the volunteer work of its members and if it depends on the professional assistance of a police officer from the Directorate... Therefore, the institution to be supervised by this council to be monitored by the institution shall be subject to supervision by the authorities of the supervisory authority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which is actually cyclical. In addition, the draft law does not assess the necessary resources for the work of the Council or by which the budgetary item would be provided. It is not clear who is chaired by the council and how the chairman-in-Office is elected, to whom and within what time-limits the Council reports on its work and many other issues. Finally, the members of the committee stressed that all these issues should be clarified during the preparation of the final draft law and once again assessed which variant is optimal, i.e. whether a council should be established with a detour and a way of working as provided for in the draft law and with it to continue to insist on the Commission's work on complaints with the legal redefining of that body which would create conditions for more effective work. Or the affairs of the commission and the council unite in one body for the civil oversight of police actions and powers. Or, as a third option, with the aim of achieving efficiency and economics, to form a single body of civil surveillance that would mention in advance the two authorities of the supervision of police actions and powers also include supervision which is now in the work of the Civil Surveillance Council over the work of security and intelligence agencies. Finally, with 6 votes for and 2 abstentions, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a bill on amendments and amendments to the law but also to hold... the views and proposals that have been made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73165	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected colleague, Miroslav Tudjman, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73166	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers. On this occasion, I'd just like to talk about a few things, what the predecessor was saying about the Civil Watch Council. In fact, the fact is that OTC services are now using the most police since 90%, somewhere around 40,000 phone numbers that are listed and monitored go according to a police order and there is no control over it. And on this side, it is welcome that the proposal is to introduce civil surveillance and over that part of police work to strike a balance of public interest and police obligations so that it can carry out its basic activity. But what is not well solved is the issue of the proposal of this Civil Watch Council, as we have heard earlier. Because there would simply be a duplication. We would have two civil oversight councils that could essentially deal with both theoretically and practically the same cases. Therefore, in the debate and what we advocate as a club, and it was also at the debate of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, I also think it would be normal for the obligations to be attached here to the existing Committee on Civil Control. I am not a lawyer, but it seems somewhat illogical to me that one law, as suggested here, that matters of importance for the work of the council will be regulated by the Act of the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. It makes no sense for me that the law determines what the Croatian Parliament will determine with its Rules of Procedure and with its documents. So I think that decision should be completely changed, and on the other hand, it is not logical that such a committee should be used regardless of the use of an existing committee to appoint a police officer in it. He may be on hand but not as a permanent member of the council. The second topic I would like to say is related to investigators who are defined in Article 11 of this proposal for these amendments, investigators dealing with the examination of witnesses and suspects appointed by the principal director in the preliminary opinion of the attorney general. I don't think it makes sense that the police can't delegate themselves to investigators who are going to deal with the affairs that the state's attorney is looking for. It's logical that the state's attorney, given such provisions of the Penal Code, is looking for an investigator. It could mean asking him from different ministries, whether it's the police, customs, or any other ministry, but it doesn't make sense that a state's attorney can choose the names of the investigator he wants. On the other hand, I do not think it is a good provision where it is said that the expert training programme for investigators, which is a clear matter, must have special knowledge that, with the previous opinion of the attorney general, it is decided by the minister. That's where I think we're making a double mistake. So, the education program brings the minister along with the consent of the state's attorney. In my opinion, it would be logical for the application for a programme to be made to competent institutions or to the Police Academy or other institutions that can offer specific education for individual tasks, but it is not logical for the programme to be brought by the minister and the state lawyer. So they can ask the competent institutions, but these institutions to determine the programme and then carry out training, or give a license or how, to testify to the people who are qualified for those programmes. The next set of problems to be put here with such provisions or changes, weather changes, it is said, is about the telecommunications term being changed into a communication, telecommunications contact is being replaced by electronic communication. I'm not quite sure how much electronic communication today is an adequate name for computer communication because electronics is already something, also technologically outdated. Now, there's one other question that's not visible from this bill, and that's next. Does this termology mean that all communications can also be traced through computers, viberas, skypea or other means of communication? It's on the board, when it was discussed, we didn't get a clear answer. If that's not the case, then we actually have a technological, mental, familiar concept that's just late for reality. Today, these phones that we use, smart phones are being used more or more as computers, and less and less as phones, but that part simply won't be traced. It's said here that, otherwise you, it's necessary for the police to determine the location and place, if only to go to OTC, there's a possibility of tracking these classic mobile phones, then we have another problem. You probably all know that today if all of us who have smart phones, or phones that have built-in GPS, can google, if we type in that history location map, track where we've been for the last 30 days. No cops, no nothing, no warrants. If we can do it, frankly, I learned it from my students, therefore these younger generations know it without this law. If we can do this, then it is a clear thing that all those who have access to those servers that Google is using, and we have now seen the example of Americans and what happened to the NSA that is tracking both the EU and the EU statesmen, means they can come up with that data, and we are not even aware that this is being used. And now the question is double. So, if this law only goes to track the location and location of the phone via OTC, and here on the Internet anyone who is interested in, the clear thing with sophisticated equipment can do it, and even with hacking, it could work and the police, then we're putting under surveillance something that's supposed to be very necessary and important to put it on, but basically all this stuff is getting out of hand and it's really something completely different from what's happening in reality. Furthermore, this law does not indicate at all what personal data the police use, using or not using available databases, databases that the state administration has, while the specific subject should be that the address of the databases in the public administration does not exist even as a rule under which conditions this can be used. If the police in doing their jobs don't use those databases, the question is, how can they do their jobs at all? If he does, then the question arises where and how the supervision of the use of such personal data is defined, given that in a series of laws we have an obligation of insight, that is, citizens have an introduction to use, where all their personal data are located, in which databases to control them, or to seek corrections if they are wrong and to have insight into who uses them all. This whole complex of questions is simply not solved, is not defined in this law either. So, the databases that are in the state administration, commercial databases. We know that these databases from, say, these commercial, American Express, Diners or these intelligence cards, the police in other countries benefit, we have no indication that the Croatian police have concluded such contracts? Can he use these databases, under what conditions, how he uses them, who gets to know about it? And if we don't talk about this at last, let's call it banking or financial databases, do we know that banks already have common credit bases, or credit or incapacitated, whether it's used or not by the police. In short, this is one effort to say it is now we will form a council for civil surveillance to have insight into that there is no abuse of personal data compared to the total available databases that can be used or that use this first effort are actually crumbs in relation to what is de facto happening or what is realistic expected to happen. And I'm not one of those who has a phobia that doesn't need to get into this because if someone kidnaps a child or happens a murder, or so on, they have to react immediately, so there has to be a right, but on the other hand there has to be a balance, we need to know what's really going on and we need to have control over all of that, all of that data, the way they're used, just to protect their personality and eliminate any possible abuse of the use of that data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73167	Thank you. We have one replica, Branko Vuksic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73168	Excuse me. Dear Professor, you've been well-accepted by one of the biggest problems we have in the country, and that's citizen surveillance, civil surveillance and police and secret services. If we really want to be a parliamentary state, if we want to be a democratic state, there must be absolutely no bodies that are out of control, bodies that no one controls, nor does the Parliament control. The other thing is if we have control of the availability of surveillance, the way it is done, and at the end of the day, how much Parliament even has knowledge of all these jobs that are being done. What you said when you were talking about modern technology. It became a fact today that we are not even aware of how much the big brother listens to us, looks, you said you learned some things from your students, probably even students less know of those students who were worse, the younger they get, the more they accept the latest technology. I don't know, I don't do that, so I ask you who you're dealing with, how much we're actually ready and how much the council is proposed and what there is, how trained they are to monitor what they don't know, because you said if you, I know it far less than you, I don't really know, I know very little, how to talk about this problem at all, here's the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73169	A representative does not ask questions, questions are asked to the government but answers to the line by Miroslav Tudjma.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73170	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So look I think it's not at this point not a surveillance problem but a problem in the system that works below the level of the specified, below the level of reality, technology has gone far ahead and we're not aware of it at all. You have one elemental thing, I think Vivian Weding wrote in the Evening List two, three weeks ago was that the protection of personal data, the value of personal data in the EU in 2011. 315 billion euros and that the entire digital economy is based on it and we are not at all at that level that we can even track and talk about it rather than compete here whether five people of civil surveillance will be on one committee or another and whether it will be some kind of police officer who will then help to see that we are not doing what the police are supposed to do. So it's ours if you want the tragedy that we're below every level of technology, political, knowledgeable that we could function as a normal and good state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73171	Thank you. And I'm setting a break until 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73172	My colleagues and colleagues continue the debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73173	Honorable Vice President, Mr. Deputy, gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, I would have answered first of all to support this law on police affairs or powers, but I also reported that, in a way, let's say, if I may express myself, I would have expressed my gratitude to both the USKOK and the police for exposing an entire pulsing department to the fight against drugs. And I spoke specifically openly here in the assembly not once, help us because with that problem we ourselves are down in Istria just can't handle. You all know that four officers of that department ended up in Via Roma in Rijeka. If anyone has an addiction problem, then it's Istria and it's not weird. Dr. Sakoman put it this way, that's why you're taking local self-government into the ranks of the police, and I agree with that, and now I'm saying the same thing here, and then I'm going to be down on the board, open up the Martine Duras case, the family has the right to the truth, and the truth can't be buried. Istra has a problem with these drugs at some other police stations on the west coast and I think USKOK knows and has to act. Someone said the worst corruption that could happen in policy lines, that's close to the truth, that's terrible, but it's probably far worse corruption in the ranks of the police, even worse in the ranks of the prosecution and probably the worst in the judiciary itself. Is there corruption in the police? It does, but it also needs to be fair and admit that 99% of the people in that system do the job in an extremely professional way. Here's a little later we'll talk about employment without checking people in SOJA, POJA, I don't know where, it's very clear, a slippery area but the fact is either the system will deal with the system or it will deal with us simply. But to go in line with these articles now, Article 28 means that police may take undercover police actions during criminal research if it is obvious that other actions will not achieve the goal of police work, concealing the police action we have heard about before, and from the representatives of the ministry are observation, escort, trap or ambush, and then further debate. You know what I'm interested in here, too? Especially in these Istrian cases, small dealers, the 3, 4 echelon, are constantly calling for some leaders and normally since they are not the subject of processing or investigation to anyone, ok. I don't want to harm anyone or want to impute anyone, but I also swore that the Duras family must simply know the truth and that means that the responsible must face justice. As I said in 99% of cases, there's a big job, a responsible job, and we have to admit, they're underpaid, someone's gonna say there's not enough, and that's probably true, but it just needs to be done, and it's important. People often asked me, well, here's why you won't tell some things to the police, and I talk all the time in public. I highly respect Mr. Cestar, who is head of the Istrian Police Department, I think that change should have happened because he's a good cop, a real professional, but in an interview he said he was the only one who knew what would happen when it came to these four police officers in Pula. So he had to keep his mouth shut and now someone on the side should just talk. If the one who chose the cops can't trust them, so how can someone on the side trust that entire institution? We have a problem, there's no problem with the police, but we do have ourselves and I'm really asking you and once again I'm going to say that this problem in Pula that was, I want to believe that it's been solved, is still present at a police station on the west coast of Istria. The Article first or better stated here in the explanation, inter alia, that in connection with this, etc., an amendment to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers has been made, in order to remove or correct the observed indetermination, the content of the laws has been recently improved in order to include in the law provisions which comply with the latest amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. The reason is that the concept of criminal research is redefined, i.e. extended, adapted to real, real police practices, according to this bill, criminal research would cover those powers, measures and actions that police take when, within their jurisdiction, detecting crimes and offences, searching for their perpetrators, or finding, provides clues to what is the extent and extent of the concept in agreement with the party, a real pardon, criminal practice. Normally, the police are tasked with, quote, preventing and detecting criminal offences carried out under the official duty of their perpetrator, preventing the danger of violence, and searching for persons, or objects. More or less the law is logical, does it have abuse in practice? It probably has, it should normally be monitored, but it's also interesting, we've left the entire telecommunications system to... the telecoms, so they have all the knowledge, what they can or can have, here happening and that information gives us. We sold one system for how much? 2 billion kuna, and today the profit of THT is 2 billion kuna, 70% more than all Croatian banks. So all our officials, from the president of the state to the prime minister, ministers, the heads of the opposition, so to speak, are in the link of foreign services that have, I don't know, their branches in Munich or elsewhere. Among other things, it is said here that, as a newspaper, in order to enable effective control of their conduct carried out covert actions, observations and escorts, it is mandatory to inform the competent state attorney and chief police director within 48 hours of their completion, yes, since the completion of these actions. I think we should trust this team headed by the DORH or, I don't know, UskoK, I think we should also trust people who run Croatian police at national level. Amendments to the provisions in the protection of police officers after the use of coercion funds are said to provide for free legal assistance to a police officer in a procedure preceding the criminal proceedings and a procedure for damages to police affairs carried out under the law. It is important to stress because so far it has been done differently. All in all and for the sake of this committee I have to be on, I'm going back to this Department of Drugs in the County of Istria. We all knew what was going on, we talked about it, well, some stores take years, it can't be done from today to tomorrow, but no matter what, I think a big deal has been done and that such measures can protect that most endangered young population in those areas. Clearly, for the end, one effective control over a complete repressive apparatus should be established, it must be... one regulated rule of law that must trust everyone among other things, but in some ways it should be supervised by its own institutions. All in all, we at the Independent Representatives Club will support this Law on Police Affairs and Powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73174	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73175	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Tonkovic, Deputy Minister. So, as it was mentioned in the opening statement, the Proposer said the basic motives for which it is going to amend and supplement the Law on Police Affairs, that is, above all, the harmonisation of the law, this law with the Law on Criminal Procedure. There is not only nomotechnical harmonisation but there are also some material, therefore essential coordinations, amendments to the provisions on the conditions for providing free legal assistance as something new within the framework of the police service and the introduction of civil oversight over the application of certain police powers. So these are the reasons that are quite enough for us to go into changing and supplementing this law. We think that by trying to change you did a pretty good job, given that this is the first reading, you can say a few things through an analysis of the proposed solutions themselves, and I will also say something about what is happening on the ground, that is, specific experiences about the behaviour of police officers and the functioning of the system itself on the ground. In any case, the aim of the proposed changes is to strengthen the control of police powers which we consider to be good. In Article 68, where, to put it, an orderly way of controlling, or what we say in the jargon, listening to certain phone conversations, Comrade Tudjman has opened a very good topic here. So today we see that it's an activity that is present, that it's a global topic. We can see that we're listening to everything and everything, so if we can listen to certain statesmen then let's not be surprised if we're listening to the conversations of ordinary citizens. And apparently, today has become one normal behavior. So the big eye follows all that together. And we think that it's because of that fact that it's not just a simple thing to listen to, but it's a series of actions, a series of open questions that are being asked, and we think that this should have been handled a little bit more fully, not just through one provision of one article 68 that data is used, as these data are used, the scope of using these data, etc. So I'm saying a colleague had a very good elaborated it before because it's probably more about that problem. I have as a citizen a certain feeling that this thing is not good enough not wide enough and detailedly processed through this one article. Article 98 provides for free legal assistance for police officers against whom certain measures are taken under previous police assessment criminal proceedings if he has worked in accordance with the law. So we think it's good because it gives certain legal certainty to the police officers themselves. In a more professional or casual way of doing their jobs, they then know that if they are subject to certain criminal charges which, of course, is not an impossible thing, then the system will stand behind them and allow them to be protected. We think it's in the interest of these officers a very well-hit formula to stimulate them for better work. The most important thing is civil oversight of the application of certain police powers in Article 102 of the amendments. So it encourages more control in listening to the data, more control through this civil surveillance institute. The truth is that in paragraph 4. we have a rather vague determination that the issues of importance for the work of the council will be regulated by the Act of the Croatian Parliament, we think that this should be defined differently because what act of the Croatian Parliament should be more important to determine that council. I think the proposer should define the methodology of work, and then the Croatian Parliament should in some way verify or accept it or not accept it. Article 102 lays down the composition of this Council of Civil Control. We think it is good that they will give their opinion on the composition of the council in front of the Croatian Parliament and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities because we rightly expect that then a representative from the club, therefore not only from the club, will be represented by a representative on behalf of the national minorities, which I think would be of multiple benefit. So through this civil surveillance, there are assumptions about a democratic control of the work of the MUP, and that in any case strengthens the confidence of the citizens of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Interior. It remains of course only a basic question, whether this will only be a legal form, or if additional mechanisms are to be created as to how this civilian control will function. Of course, it will also require certain financial resources that were not spoken of here. And that's what we would say about this text about these changes that we certainly support. However, I would now, in the interest of a more quality debate, draw attention to three groups of issues of certain things that are happening on the ground. They're primarily for us, and they're talking about doing the service. This first refers first of all to a conscious conversation called the so - called Conversation. the category of informed conversations. Of course the police are entitled to various kinds of informed conversations. But the facts tell us that when it comes to returnees, especially young people who come back, we come to a situation that is not very clear to us. Namely, what's this about? These young people return with the intention of returning permanently to their homes, then calling for informed conversations. These talks do not insist on what life content and return motives mean but only insists on facts and circumstances related to the period of war. One basic question arises, these young people who are now 18 years of age were probably 2, 3, 4 or 5 years old, so the basic question is, what facts regarding the circumstances of war can these young people in these conscious conversations be given, and what is already unknown or what is expected of them to say through such types of conversations? Of course, this brings about some unrest among people and, of course, it creates an illusion of a message about the issue of return at all. So I would ask that this matter be taken into account because I don't think it's a question that should be the essence of a conversation of informed people who are not over 20 years of age who intend to return. The second thing is to protect usurped assets, it's partly tried to be solved through Article 7. However, some questions have not been answered. We are witnessing numerous cases of usurpation of the property of the returnee. There are strong verdicts and several cases in which police help is lacking in the execution of these powers of judgments, which also causes anxiety and misunderstanding, and often the indignation of people who expect internal affairs authorities to set up differently. For example. in the case of returnees of Obradovic Milan in Macutama who had a problem with the uptake of private land, police did not respond to his request to ensure his peaceful enjoyment of his property, or the use of the country. The matter ends in such a way that the man Obradovic gets beaten up and ends up in a hospital with two broken ribs. So the question arises why the police did not respond at the time when man sought the protection of his property and would probably not presently have such an epilogue. It is a similar case that happens on several occasions, but now it has come to the brink of the incident, agricultural producer Milenko Saponja of the Benkovec area where certain..., so it says here, Habensus of which the return families constantly fright, enters their tractor and mechanize into other countries and prevents them from processing that country. The certain damaged Milenko Saponja is addressing the police, police say they do not have the authority to do so. Of course, it is possible that the law does not have the authority to act in this case, but the citizen of Šaponja expects with one confidence in the work of the institutions that his basic fundamental civil right to use peaceful property of his property will be protected, and if the police say that he is not, that he is not authorised, he is helping the man in the peaceful use of his property, legal property and legal property, the question of how can there be then the confidence of the citizens in the work of the MUP employees. A similar situation can be said in the area of Like, Gračaca, Krbave, etc., that I do not now list it. So I would ask that this matter be considered a phenomenon that significantly disrupts the integrity of the service. Of course, the service in most areas does its job seriously and professionally, and it is not good to question this seriousness in such incident situations. The third thing that's very important for us here is, and there's a lot of talk about it, I'll say it anyway, the police's actions when it comes to hate speech and public encouragement to violence. We're asking the question of police conduct in case of hate manifestations, especially in sports competitions. It is already known, the story, the police's conduct or the lack of police action in the event of the shouting "kill, kill a Serb" or something else, which is why the failure is regularly repeated and eventually becomes part of the regular folklore in sports competitions. On the other hand, we have another situation that is very spotlessly responding, of course according to the rules of the profession, when it comes to the behaviour of Serbian national fans, so here I am just pulling the parallel with the women's basketball team, the game between women's basketball teams between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia in Vukovar last year. The media very consistently transmitted the cheerleading of these young people from Borov at the game and publicly established inappropriate cheerleading and that's fine. However, also very spotless police administration of Vukovar-Srijemska then filed an indictment against 8 people, and against 4 precautionary measures, a ban on visiting the sports hall, which is of course good. Of course, no one says it shouldn't have, however, on the contrary, it's all good, but the question is then a double criterion in acting in the same situations. Also after an interesting situation, after the second round of elections in the Municipality of Gracac, car columns and trucks drove the streets of Gracac all week long after the elections, the city of the column shouted "kill, kill the Serbs" and all followed by a police escort, insurance the column, no one was sanctioned. On the other hand, during the movement of the Borov procession at the time of the Badnjak celebration of national symbols, as said in the police report and the reproduction of content that is disrupting public order and peace, a sanctioning procedure against five people has been initiated, and against three, a misdemeanor proposal, which is of course good, which is, of course, in accordance with the law. I point out, that's the way it's supposed to be. But then I ask again the question of analogy, why it was not done in that first case and then it would be a completely legal and secure country and then it would not be questionable about the credibility of certain segments of service, or people would have full confidence in public order bodies. That's it. So we could talk about some other examples, but it's not appropriate for me to talk about it right now. We at the SDSS Club will support a second reading of these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73176	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73177	Thank you very much. Comrade Horvat, if you hadn't said these last two sentences that you have spoken my replica would have been... This is how I raised the sign for the replica, but in the meantime you took on the Borov village and the columns that were for the Orthodox and also the police followed up on what you left out, so the police escort was in those columns, so it was about the same situation. Of course I don't say hello and I don't want a hate speech on sports grounds or anything like this to say to local parties and celebrations, so here I was thinking of mentioning this "unlucky" Borovo Village where these events are held every year. Speaking of such things, although not in the police jurisdiction of the Croatian police, the Croatian Ministry of Interior is then not watching our minister of sports burn down the Croatian flag in Novi Sad at the same time we seem to have a handball game where we also have a segment that would actually talk about how we all deal together and treat the symbols of the Croatian state and state and respect for the state that feeds us, in which we live and in which we intend to die. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73178	The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73179	Thanks, buddy. So, I wouldn't be in the front row, which of course I support you, but I wouldn't prioritize certain moral frameworks of behavior. I would only insist on the legality, so on strict law enforcement, that is, those rules of conduct that we have adopted here in Parliament. And when we have the Act of Sports and defined sanctions for all those who behave against some kind of public order and morality, then it should be applied equally to everyone regardless of what fans, what uniforms, what colors, etc. So, strictly law enforcement first of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73180	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73181	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Powers, Jobs and Powers. It is a proposal which, on the one hand, is in line with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act which entered into force on 15 December 2013. Next, the harmonisation and transposition of the Council Framework Decision of 13 June 2002 on joint investigation teams and Council Framework Decision of 27 November 2008 on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. In view of the nostrification of the Law on Police Affairs and Powers by the European Commission, the Council and the European Central Bank. What is most intrigued in this proposal are provisions aimed at introducing different and stronger control over the application of certain police powers, in a way that will reconcile the need and interest of the public to monitor the needs of the police for the urgent and effective application of powers and clearly all for the purpose of preventing crime and the detection and processing of perpetrators of criminal offences, in particular those most difficult. The concept of criminal research is redefined and expanded and now it covers all the powers, measures and actions that police are taking under the provisions of these and other laws when they reveal, within their jurisdiction, crimes and offences, that is, the search for their perpetrators, find and provide clues. The law also adds the concept of analytical processing, which involves the application of analytical techniques to determine the existence of a basis for doubt in the preparation or initiation of a criminal offence. This measure is primarily a tool to help make a decision on the initiation of criminal research, and can also be carried out during the course of criminal research itself. This set of measures enables coordination with the real and real frameworks of police conduct. In view of the practical experience so far in the conduct of police work when certain cases of overdoing or abuse of police powers, or police conduct caused complaints against the work of a police officer, whose alleged and factual state was neither confirmed nor disproved because of lack of evidence. This bill opens up the possibility of shooting police operations, with appropriate technical devices. It is also possible to collect recorded material in the MUP information system, and could be used as evidence in possible disputes. The special importance of this measure is the preventive effect on the possible corrupt behaviour of police officers, which in itself causes a rise in dignity and reputation of police services and ministries. This bill brings a paper on police assistance at the request of a court, a state lawyer, a state body or a legal person with public authority. If resistance is reasonably expected in the execution of their acts. A request for assistance and assistance must be submitted to the Chief of Police at least 8 days prior to the enforcement of the act and the Chief shall inform the applicant of the application for approval and the means of providing assistance or possibly the reasons for the refusal of the request no later than 3 days before the request for assistance. In practice, it has been common for police aid to be sought in the most banignant things where there was no premise of resistance. This was largely done by police officers, on the other hand, did not result in any positive effects but only increased costs for the state budget. This approach to police assistance is granted only in cases where there is a serious presumption of resistance to the execution of acts is justified and we at the SDP club fully support it. We also support the fact that the proposal of the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities is respected in this proposal, then the new paragraph 3 is added in Article 14, which particularly stresses the effective protection of the rights of persons with disabilities in terms of ensuring real adaptation and support to such persons in the event of coalition treatment, taking into account the specificities of each individual damage to the person with disabilities. Since protection mechanisms for treating children and minors in Article 11 have already been provided. The proposal for a law has been amended and complemented to ensure similar protection mechanisms in the process of police treatment against persons with disabilities and persons with disabilities. According to this proposal, changes and additions to the police may, as appropriate and by assessment, engage for this purpose and professional assistance to persons outside the police system, but also those who are not experts but who have experience knowledge because they are close to persons with disabilities parents, guardians, sign language interpreters and the like. Article 82 is also proposed. It complements the law in such a way that the means of coercion are specifically applied with regard to the person with disabilities. In its letter of 12 August 2012, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data pointed to the fact that the Regulation on the way police officers act prescribed that a police officer would resign, or to deny the provision of personal data at the request of a person whose right is the person whose data are being verified even though such a way of handling a police officer has so far not been based on the law. By adding a new sentence in Article 30, legal assumptions are created and given the right to a police officer that, in the event of a suspicion, data could be misused, in the event of a lack of information, to the person who requested the verification, it is suggested to address the competent unit of police by written request. It is also regulated to draw up documents on identity and ownership of things when a police officer collects information about a criminal offence carried out under official duty. Article 34 is complemented by a provision under which the written authorisation for the making of documents is exclusively issued by the Head of the Criminal Police Administration. This bill seeks to remove an administratively prescribed deadline within which a police officer may temporarily restrict access to space or movement in space and facility to the lives of persons or property. So far, this restriction has been the longest 12 hours, although in reality, the danger to people's lives or property has lasted longer. All we can think of are examples of fires, and then a series of uncontrolled explosions in the military "Old Guard" at Knin when explosives were activated for 3 days. This change allows the time limit of 12 hours to be replaced by the actual conditions in such a way that the restriction lasts as long as there is a real danger to the lives of people or to property, or until the danger is removed. It is also possible by this proposal when I have already mentioned the "Old Guard" that in the event of finding suspicious objects that pose a threat to the lives of people and the danger to property, which, because of their properties, is not possible in a safe way, to be transferred to another place where destruction would be destroyed at the very site of discovery. Article 66 provides for police authority to ensure the place of events. This article is complemented by paragraph 2 of point 5, which provides that a police officer who first arrived at the scene will take measures to protect and assist the victim. Namely, the assistance of victims under the obligation to protect victims who have already existed in the law implies police obligations to treat victims of all forms of crime by respecting the provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure relating to the introduction of victims to their rights, the provisions of the Protocol on the Treatment of Family Violence, the Protocol on the Treatment of Sexual Violence, the UN Declaration on Fundamental Principles of Justice for Victims of Crimes and Power Abuse and the established best practice achieved in the European acquis. Since police are often the first to contact the victim, it is a special responsibility for police officers to identify which and what help it is necessary to provide or offer the victim. Article 40 relating to police powers of use of undercover police actions has also been amended. In addition to observation and escorts and traps, an ambush is now prescribed. Finally, the topic which is the biggest change this proposal amends and complements the Law on Police Affairs and Powers is borne by and in connection with the police authority to verify the establishment of a telecommunication contact in the public known as the Colloquial Name of the List of Communications. In view of the affair of codenamed "Juda" which has long been spinning in the media and is causing damage to the entire system where, if true, what is written about were witnesses of a real violation of police authority during 2011 when a list of electronic communications were reportedly carried out by the chief state attorney and editors of some newspapers in an attempt to reveal an unauthorized source of data to the media in connection with cases handled by the police and the DORH. Considering the so-called. Croatia's watergate affair, which we witnessed in 2012 when we tried to implicate the excess of police powers, and in the end it turned out that it was a silent attempt to protect the crime-mills we at the SDP club welcome any change that would contribute to clearer interpretation but also more transparent application of this power. In particular, we insist that this police authority is seriously affecting the lives of citizens in order to clearly establish rules when the authority is allowed to apply, who may authorise the application and to establish civil oversight over the application of this power. And we're thinking the same thing when it comes to police powers of observation and escorts. Therefore, Article 339a of the Criminal Procedure Act provides for the application of this measure in order to collect evidence according to the registered owner or user of a telecommunications asset while the application of this measure at the time of the detection of the perpetrators remained unregulated by that law. Therefore, in this proposal, the amendment and addition of the Law on Police Affairs and Powers and for its adaptation to the CAP proposed that this police authority can be applied to the prevention and detection of criminal offences that are being prosecuted by official duty and by their perpetrators, the prevention of addiction and violence and the search for persons and cases. In addition, the power to determine the position of the communication device, to identify the place where the persons who establish electronic communications are located, and to identify the device identification code is required. This extension of the powers particularly of determining the position of the communication device is necessary in order to search for missing persons. This proposal amending and supplementing the law has finally specified which persons can give written approval to carry out checks on the establishment of electronic communications and they cannot transfer their powers to other persons. Therefore, there is a clear responsibility for the application of powers affecting the lives of citizens. It is also proposed to amend Article 68 more precisely as regards the reasons for applying this power, which I have already talked about. It is proposed that this authority be subject to control by the Civil Surveillance Council with the authority of the escort and observation, which would, subject to precisely prescribed conditions, authorise the supervision of the establishment of electronic communications with clearly defined persons who can grant it to a significant extent exclude suspicion of the abuse of these police powers. And that's exactly what we at the SDP club are expecting and looking for. A clear system of application of powers that will be effective but not subject to abuse. On the other hand, we propose that, given the existence of the Civil Surveillance Council, the SOA not to form a new council but to extend the existing council's powers and numbers of members and to unite it with the existing powers and supervision of the powers to verify the establishment of electronic communications as well as hidden police actions. In fact, there is a practical reason for this and the definition of the Law on the Security Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia, which has a Security Intelligence Agency Supervisory Board, is contained in Article 110, 111, 112, 113, 114 of that Act. By virtue of this law, the Council may oversee the powers of the prescribed law and the operation of the operational technical centre or of the OTC. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the exercise of police affairs and powers and the formation of councils in order to ensure that the purpose of its existence is not fulfilled, since the Council would, however, monitor the source of power, so whoever issued the warrant and the reasons for the application of the powers but would not have any legal authority over the operational technical centre, so it would be denied information on what happened to the warrant when it came to the OTC and when that order was carried out. As a result, we propose to the Proposer to reconsider the unification of all powers within the Civil Watch Councils, the security intelligence system to the team more so as to get a better control effect, remove or greatly reduce doubts about the abuse of those powers and the area of surveillance is very similar. The SDP club will support this bill in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73182	Thank you very much. Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73183	I won't be Madam Vice President long. I just wanted one segment from this whole gentleman-exposure before I tell you, Vidovica right? So you said that police actions also serve to detect a communication source or place where this communication is, so it is also possible. We've had a case, so that's what it was before. This possibility existed before, so we had a communication source near Modruš, so where and the body of a young woman was found, so what we were looking for was the body of a young woman, and there was an empty lake near Sibenik, Zadar and the divers were working, looking for, even though we had the last source of communication in connection with telling the mobile, the person who was looking for it, and that's also what it was about in these shops, is it, right from where the body was later found at Modruš. So I don't know what's actually changing in that part where you give permission to monitor the communication source of another, third party, doesn't matter which one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73184	Replication response, Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73185	Well, dear colleague, it changes as much as I think it was then, but I don't know the details of that case, except for what I read in the media. I think it was then done on the basis of the powers dropped by the DORH, or the state prosecutor, which allows it. We're talking about something else here. So here we're talking about what the police can do on their own right now in the discovery, so right at the start, before they're informed about this investigative judge, etc. So it doesn't really have anything to do with it, so it has to do with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73186	Jadranka Kosor replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73187	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Vidovic, you mentioned the work of the council before, of course for monitoring, what I think should be further underlined, so the good news that we have two law readings is this unfinished part of the article that says that the important issues for the work of the council are actually going to be completed, i.e. in some act that should be adopted by the Croatian Parliament. But I think that the law should be in that very sense of control to the end and precisely articulated, and so I suggest that we do this to another reading and do this because this opens up a series of possibilities but then of course the possibilities of manipulation. The Assembly cannot pass a sublegal act, the Assembly could possibly pass some new law which would interpret these provisions, and therefore I suggest that you, too, because you are a member of the ruling coalition insist that, until the second reading of these provisions of the law, it is clearly understood that all these relevant powers of the Board of Supervisors are important without leaving a legal void which will also allow for different interpretations, public uncertainty, the uncertainty of citizens and I repeat the possibility of abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73188	Replication response, Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73189	Thank you. Well, I totally agree with you. Clearly, it is necessary to prescribe exactly what powers are. However, under this Security Intelligence System Act, these powers have already been defined. Now they should be extended for power but let's leave it to the proposer and see which direction it will go, after all, there will be a public debate and that is also a request and our Club because we want to finally and above that part of the police powers to establish clear control, to know in which conditions are issued, who is responsible, who is responsible for such a thing and ultimately to know the effects of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73190	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73191	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Perhaps this debate of mine will cause numerous comments or replicas, but I, in my own style and custom, will speak. Namely, when we older people who lived in that country remember those times when the twins walked the streets of our cities, the two of us because when you have some kind of conflict with the police not only that officer or the neighborhood cop, that there was a witness with you, what happened, and that he also describes what it was like and then we seem to be in some way even though there's a state, we know how to semi-certify it and how it was in some way I knew on the way to the plates through Bosnia to sleep somewhere along the river Bosnia in the car completely safe. Maybe I wouldn't sleep so safe today if I was sleeping in my car. Look how our officers walk the streets today, look at the behavior of our officers and security guards in front of some kind of banks or insurance houses or hospitals. That behavior is completely different, our officers are walking around today with some kind of guilt, like they're being burdened with something. And watch him stand there in front of some security guard bank, quite different behavior, even though powers and duties may be different. In Slavonski Brod there was a police officer who had a last name, his name was Pero Glavas, who no longer lives in Croatia, lives in the neighbouring country, in the east, who stopped me because I was driving, and it was cold, third month, bike without arms and asked me if I could ride a bike without hands? I said I know. Well, then he took the key and cut off my bike driver, when you know how to drive without a driver. We were all afraid of him, afraid of him in some way. I came home, my dad still beat me up because I brought home a bike without a governess, as we say in Slavonia, who took Pero Glavas, a policeman. Today it's impossible, impossible for anyone to take the wheel off your bike, impossible for anyone to be more Pero Glava in Slavonski Brod. Even not just that, it's completely changed people's minds for the past 20 years about the police, so from this imaginary fear we've had, it's just that cops come to you as some friends. You ask him about the street, you ask him about anything, you get information if he can say, explain, perfectly normal, I think it's one perfectly normal thinking about cops and police. But when it really takes action, I already said it in one line, so Mr. Vice President of the Parliament said it had nothing to do with this question, and it has to do with it. So it has to do because on page 25 it says nice, according to this law police work is, under number 9 and surveillance of the state border. So, in the control of the state border, a police officer, so who oversees the state border, if he sees any illegal drug trafficking, people or anything suspected, has no right if he runs or doesn't stop, uses firearms other than, like, heavy self-defense, and the one who runs doesn't attack a police officer, he runs away from a police officer. So there's no right not to use the weapon to him, but to have no right to fire a warning in the air. And that's the problem. The Ship-Posavia County has 140km from BiH, along the Sava River, if a vessel of this kind of illegal, criminal, crosses the Sava River with some Iranians or Afghans smuggled into Western Europe, and is spotted by our policeman or patrolman on the Sava, and even at sea so happens, we have a situation in Italy, then he just crosses the border line, imagined towards Bosnia and our police no longer have any authority, only 20 meters should be crossed by boat, and you can't catch him. Nor do you have the right to use firearms. And they're armed, I don't know why they're armed when they can't use it, the era, so an automatic rifle with three bullet frames, 60 bullets, 20 bullets is a frame, or 30 even. So completely unnecessary. And I was also talking about a case that happened for stealing diesel fuel from construction machines on corridor 5C, the night that machines don't work, that man arrested thieves, to say so, not criminals, but thieves, but now he's going on a tight procedure because he fired, to catch thieves, a bullet in the air, a bullet warning, and then they just stopped, those thieves stopped and surrendered. Among them was a minor, and this is why a man goes to disciplinary proceedings. He can lose his job, he's got three kids, etc. That's terrible. As the police describe, in Article 82, the means of coercion. Well, that's a real alphabet of one, I don't want a police state, I don't want that state that, the attitude towards the police that was in that state before, Yugoslavia, but how nice and gentle it is, and it describes it very gently. He says this way, the means of coercion can be used in cases prescribed by this law to protect people's lives. Overcoming resistance, when someone escapes no wrestling, preventing escape, refusing to attack, and then saying this again, a police officer will always use the least means of coercion to achieve the goal. I don't know what you'd be praying for, so give up and I'll take you to the police station. That's the easiest way. Please surrender, that's what beats you. It's terrible, it's sad for our police, sad for her work, sad for hers, now to be concrete, effective, and we can't do that to our cops, they're... Why are they walking down the streets like that? Now I'm going back to the beginning, so because many don't even know what their powers are, those who know how to use it. And we talked here at the stop of me and the deputy minister what happens when a cop is powerless, completely powerless if he respects the rules of service. He's completely powerless. Here, we've moved a little bit with this law, but I don't think it's enough. I think we should have done this, at least let's get a warning shot, not a man, not in the legs, not under the feet, but to make the police more effective. Mostly this border, mostly the rivers and seas, our borders we have. Here we go by stealing, and we're stealing from the Parliament about powers and as it says here, not only by power but also by dealings with police, a bit of stealing, so we're kind of moving that border a little bit to be more effective, as they like to say or more effectively in these police affairs. So he says, he'll even be able to set up an ambush, look, he's only in traffic today, on a flat spot where there's a tree, and they're hiding to set you up, to determine your speed even though we've discussed it, so we're also together with the minister and the deputy that it's not fair to drivers to set up that kind of ambush. But it's ambushed in the right sense of the word, or this deadline is 15 days of monitoring telecommunications or communication as they love each other without a calf, only communicatively, and then possibly 15 more days. Well, the South Americans have been tracking that short, shorty boss of the mob for six years. We're 15 days plus another 15 days. They've been tracking his cell phone for six years, and the CIA's been tracking him for six years, and then he gets arrested. The Italian mob has been tracking for two, three, five years to track him down and prove what they want. And we're 15 days away. So what are you gonna do in 15 days? And now telecommunications and what's called the OTC Operational Technical Center. An operational technical center that's in the service of the big bitch. He knows everything about us, the only question he's gonna have is when it's gonna turn out to be, when it's gonna come up. Here's someone here today told the SDP about the action of Judah where journalists were already in front of the suspect's house before the police and the DORH came. The affair Index, it started at 5 a.m., the press were at 3 p.m. in front of the house. So how is that possible, how does it leak information? How they knew whose house to come before, and they knew. So that OTC and those who have that information communication, online know everything about us, you don't need to worry. As soon as you hear in your phone click before you start talking to a phone number or you hear the water spilling water in your cell or you hear yourself when you're talking, it's a sign that they're listening to you, to explain it to you, too, because that's what happens to me, thank God. That's a sure sign of a tap. For the water to be heard, slowly pours water in the background, and can be gemyst for some time, Mr. Shakespeare. Now, so what to do with this council that controls the civil oversight of the council that controls the work of the police and intelligence services, etc.? It says that "the council consists of five representatives of citizens appointed and resolved by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal only by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Assembly established in cooperation" we are now going on "with civil society organisations, scientific and professional organisations and NGOs". Is it a narrow circle of those who propose members of this council? Is this committee alone responsible and responsible for making proposals and the civil society? Or is there a broader interest besides this committee, not only of interest but also of jurisdiction for the appointment of members of this council? I think there is, that there is interest and MPs who are not members of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, all of us advocates have interest, precisely for the reasons I said, because 40,000 citizens who are listening, and you have 100 numbers, at least 100 in the directory and you do today communicate with 100 people each or each of those 40,000, that is 4 million people covered by listening. That's the whole of Croatia. There's no warrant to listen to my friend, but if I talk to him, then they hear what he's saying not only me, I'm not talking to myself, I'm talking to friends. Therefore, these 40,000 are a relative figure which is only 1% compared to the number of Croatians, but is actually affected by the whole of Croatia by listening and not just Croatia, perhaps abroad. On page 32 says these are the means of coercion, talking about helping cops or people who helped a police officer perform his duty, and he's a tight, cop who fits. It's actually giving a lawyer or legal aid in the form of official legal aid, so defense attorneys or evidence of possible guilt or excessive use of force or something else, which is understandable to me and I wouldn't talk about it anymore. Here's what to say for a case that happened that because of virtual media and text on virtual media, man actually ended up in prison or a psychiatric institution. I'm talking specifically about the case of Mark Franciskovic where one minister and Marko changed very serious insults, and then he threatened to kill him. Watch out for virtual media, facebooks, and I don't know what you're done for, and now you're arrested and then transferred to Popoc's psychiatric facility. Did the announcement of a threat to virtual media deserve a real arrest?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73192	Finish your colleague's time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73193	That's just the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73194	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73195	Thank you, too. We'll think more about the law and then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73196	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73197	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Grubisic, you mentioned the mildest means of coercion that were defined in the law. I would mention here that the mildest means of coercion used in Vukovar over Croatian defender Darko Pejcic, who from these closest means of coercion has sustained serious physical injuries dangerous to life. I'd define it as an attempted murder. Sasha Sabados is still working with the police today, not suspended, not called for responsibility, no overpowering, no overruns of funds for coercion. What are the criteria and criteria in the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian police? The minister says it's all grappa. The minister, who instead of saying that the police officer's powers have been exceeded and that he will be suspended and called to account because there will be a responsibility when criminal charges are filed for the attempted murder of a Croatian defence attorney. It could have been dealt with in a normal way. He probably got that kind of order, so then they protect each other and there's no responsibility. These are double standards and criteria against whoever fired the warning shot to arrest the thieves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73198	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73199	Thank you very much. Col. Djakić, this tenacity in these insistences on these bilingual boards, the denomination carried out by this government obviously resulted in orders from the police to carry out even smaller obvious measures of coercion and then resulted in serious injuries or injuries from the said gentleman you spoke of, where the perpetrator was identified as Mr. Sabados. What's going to be further and how hard it's going to be to say when that cadiya's staying, the cadiya's suing you. But there are cases where and there were even how the police would react if you were at the Tovarnik police station working the man who wore that black flag and sang about the salad and something else so that... That's terrible, then it's completely understandable and some of the other things you were talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73200	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73201	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Grubisic, you were saying that the Civil Supervisory Council appointed the Parliament on the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities and you have well noticed... that the issues relevant to the work of this council which are not governed by this law are governed by the act of the Parliament on the proposal of the same committee. So that's where the motion ministry takes every responsibility off itself. In fact, however, it does not really show who is chairing the council and who and how he chooses the chairman council. There is no basis, the basis on which the Civil Watch Council does so, whether it is complaints and representations or whether it is a report by the MUP. It is not clear what specific law is meant when the bill prescribes certain security obstacles for the appointment of members of the council, and we know that even so far the members of that council have not passed the security check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73202	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73203	Mr Babic, paragraph 2 of Article 102b, states that the work of the council is attended by a police officer of the Police Directorate appointed by the Director-General whose task is to provide professional assistance to members of the council. In fact, there's a trap here that this person, the police officer of the Police Department, would probably be the captain of that council. Now, how would a member of the Police Directorate explain the case in Vukovar by applying serious bodily injury rather than as Mr. Djakic spoke. However, in this Article 102b, there is not even a fact that the Civil Watch Council does not report and whether it reports annually, half-yearly, how often it reports to its founder, the Croatian Parliament. So this should be introduced in Article 102b that, either once a year or twice, I don't know how to define it but maybe once a year, like any council, committees, I don't know what everything, reports the Croatian Parliament on their work. If it was founded by the Croatian Parliament, then the Civil Watch Council should listen once a year to what the council was doing and what it was dealing with and what it was about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73204	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73205	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, around the council, is still the same as in the below, so I in my replica. It is said here that the Committee, therefore the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, will propose, so the Croatian Parliament is electing on a proposal from the Committee, in cooperation with the NGO sector, to co-operate with civil associations, that is, in cooperation with NGOs. There are as many as I know about 50 thousand, therefore there is no elaborate way in which and how the Committee on Human Rights will reach these five representatives. It is a very sensitive issue and I certainly agree that it is good that the representatives of citizens are in this council, however, how to get to that. There is always a majority in each committee, and there is a danger that then there is always some ruling majority in both the committee and parliament selecting those and representatives of those associations that are somehow closer to the programme or activities. And in this section where it's said who can't be a member of the council, it's said that there can't be someone who's a member of the political party. It's very easy to play, so someone can get out of the party before and then run. But even more intriguing for me is the provision that no person who has been convicted or is being prosecuted for an act carried out under official duty, and the rest of the acts can. Therefore, I think that no one who wishes to sit in that Council and participate in the work can be either convicted or punished for any action and that this must be a basic criterion or one of the basic criteria. Because someone who's convicted of some kind, another kind of action by that logic can. It's very, very dubious. Therefore, these provisions on the way it is called, as it comes and what are the criteria must be done absolutely further.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73206	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73207	Thank you very much. My colleague Kosor, so I think there are crimes that, for example, come from traffic, traffic problems that are being prosecuted by official duty, when severe bodily injury occurs, you don't see someone on the road because of the conditions and you run into them, you break your leg. Could that person, therefore, be a member of the Council? What do you think? Another thing, 50,000 associations in Croatia would turn out to be 1 member of the Council on every 10,000 associations. So 5 are members of the Council. That's true, it's a problem, but we've solved such problems. We can't agree that the Council has 50,000 members, but that's right, 5 are members of the Council. And as a problem with what they're saying, it's about us passing a law on the depoliticization of the police. I think that was before the end of your term, the depoliticization of the police. That's the same thing here. He says he's not a member of any political party. So he freezes or if he will run for a member of the Council a month before he resigns in any party and can run for a member of the Council. So that's, that's how it was put that he wasn't a member of the Council. But football judges when they were in the former Yugoslavia came in the championship, so we doubted the regularity of the championship because of the bribery of the judges in football, so we brought the judges outside. They weren't citizens of that country, but they tried football games properly, regularly, neatly. Well, my God, there's Olaf in Europe, he can do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73208	Igor Czech, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73209	Thank you, Vice President. ... very picturesquely depicted the use of some powers through the character and work of your ship's Pere. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Thus, no one at that time could doubt, nor did he dare suspect that his conduct was in his power. However, you also said that you slept peacefully by the river, etc. I'm sure you can't sleep peacefully in your own home today, because even though the police have powers, they don't use them. I personally witness practically juvenile delinquency when minors through the same street, practically at the same hour of the week between 2 and 5 burn trash cans, rip, rip traffic signs, etc. And it has been repeated for months, and there are no sanctions, nor have your minors or your minors been caught, nor have they been punished. But also at the end of the debate you talked about free legal aid. The reason for this law is as follows. The interior ministry is obliged to pay legal aid to police officers when they are being prosecuted for doubting official secrets, receiving bribes, or in some other not only illegal but also criminally misused police powers. What is not clear to me from this definition whether if these police officers are convicted of a criminal offence for which they are charged, in which case they have the right to free legal aid or must retroactively return the money that the State has invested or the taxpayers have invested for their free legal aid. While citizens with blocked accounts to be executed, however, they have no rights. They don't have the right to free legal aid.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73210	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73211	Comrade Czech, thank you very much. That's a great question. Namely, I think it's working here, when there's a suspicion of giving off official secrets, when someone's suspended from work because he's suspected of giving away official police secrets. Then that, at that moment, that policeman, that person has the right to ask for legal aid, so a lawyer under official duty or anything else he'll pay for. So until the trial is over. After that, I don't think you should have. So when there's a suspicion of giving away secrets and other acts that a cop can commit. And as for the destruction of property we see very often from Friday to Saturday or Saturday, more often both in Brod and Virovitica and Slatina, in Zagreb and wherever and in Imotski Antino. In fact, sometimes it's part of drinking and drinking, but sometimes it's part of the revolt of young people living in a situation like this without a job in a country like this, and I'm not going to say that I understand them. But we were all young, only when it's gone too far in destroying property, it's still too bad. I hope this new law where it says there's a possibility and ambushes will jump and some vandals that are actually vandal destroying state, city or county property.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73212	We're moving on to an individual debate. No, I'm sorry. On behalf of the HNS representative's club, counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73213	Dear Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian People's Party Club is pleased to begin by the fact that this law which is extremely important for the functioning of the Ministry of the Interior and its employees, insurance of public order, peace and respect of the law in the Republic of Croatia, goes in two readings and that, between first reading and second reading, we will naturally have the opportunity for the public and the professional public to make their observations and additions. It would be good, here's what I see in this text and the introduction we had and we have one law in force, it doesn't say a whole series of novels behind it. It is a rarity for us not to happen of frequent changes and additions. And this is the first one in years. It would be good if that fact testified that we have an envious level of security, that we have a well-complex framework for the conduct of police officers' affairs and well-assembled powers. It would be good to see that Croatia is a peaceful country without excessive crime, a country in which the government went. But of course it's not like that. A colleague Boro Grubisic mentioned their Glavas to me, Pero Glavas, that he mentioned the name. We had an even more interesting combination of nicknames, we called it Djuro "bascott." Bashkot's in the Dalmatian jargon. He was the legendary militiaman of the system, and as his colleague Grubisic said, he acted at one time and circumstances in which it was enough to appear somewhere in sight and to conquer absolute peace. He lived and worked in a time that was also lead by the many things that were being listened to, so we judged it. We all know that UDBA, some of us even live in the belief that it lives today in different forms and in different niches. So then we live in the belief that we got rid of this eavesdropping and today we can almost say it's certainly not a dilemma at all whether we're listening today in Croatia, and it's very often unauthorized, i.e. over the past 20 years. Were there abuses in the pursuit of persons in public life, in collecting such compromising data from private life for blackmailing editors, journalists, businessmen and politicians etc., etc.? Do we live in a country where you can sleep peacefully today or in which you could possibly have the courage to walk around in cash with a million euros in cash at night on some neighborhood streets at 3:00 a.m. in the night without being afraid that someone will beat you up and take that money away from you? We live in a time where you can lose your head not for a million euros but for a few hundred euros in your pocket. And we live in a time when in 2010 something happened to me that is very worrying. There was no excessive use of force or overpower of police officers, but police officers believed or did not believe in the centre of the city of Sibenik to be attacked by a group of juvenile delinquents who had ambushed them. One of the officers suffered serious injuries, and the other one, with a semi-experience, rolled aside and got out of their full range, managed to get through something easier. 10, 12 minors with a hundred and some total criminal and criminal years have been harassing citizens of the city of Sibenik, disrupting security and police are helpless. And she's helpless because the authorities of the police in the Republic of Croatia in some situations have led to absurdity. In fact, it can be said that police officers in some situations had no authority at all. In many situations because of the formalism that is trying to make these changes and additions to the law, the police did not act in due time, i.e. they did not have the legal foothold to use all methods and all tools that are entitled to police work to save people's lives, to ensure the safety of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to protect their property and to prevent crime. They had to wait for the signature. Imagine what's great, waiting for you to sign Saturdays and Sundays and I don't know the chief of police went fishing or hunting or just a man somewhere on the road. The Croatian People's Party will never advocate that we be a police state, though. Through a very sharp filter, we will miss and analyze the provisions of all these laws that would endanger the fundamental security of citizens and human rights and give to police officers or any other civil servant of inadequate authority, unreal powers, powers that could then be easily misused precisely against the citizens themselves. However, what changes and additions are listed in this law are considered mostly appropriate. First, we believe it is necessary after the amendments and the addition of the CAP to bring the text of this Law on Police Authorities and on the handling of affairs and powers to be harmonised. And secondly, I would like to stress that it is a good thing that civilian surveillance is being introduced over those police affairs involving monitoring, listing of telecommunications contacts, listening and so forth. We also believe that it is normal for the Ministry of Interior with free legal aid to protect its employees because today we are in a situation where there are a whole series of cases in modern Croatia in which officials have acted in situations in a way that uses means of coercion or weapons to protect their own lives, to try to prevent the most serious crimes, and that later through legal proceedings, lawsuits and the use of lawyers, because crime has money, it is clear to all of us, many people who have tried to professionally and honestly do their job fascising what they would say in the jargon. We also believe that it is good that this provision on mandatory police assistance has been thrown out in all acts of authorised bodies because it is a matter that is brought to absurdity and very often in such actions of a privileged person and has no difficulty because they go to citizens who are calm and normal citizens facing certain problems that do not have to be at all related to any violation, serious violation of the law or crime, and no one likes to see him coming, an officer from the court along with a police officer at the door. These are unpleasant situations for people who are living their civil life peacefully and it is absolutely logical and justifiable that the proposer of these amendments and the addition of the law foresees police assistance only in a situation where it is estimated that such assistance is necessary. In any case, between the first and second readings, this law should be given due attention because it enters the sphere of the functioning of the repressive apparatus and if any provision would have a negative effect or could be interpreted or misused twice, it may be counterproductive and may be turned to the harm of the citizens. What I am concerned about as a parliamentary representative or citizen today listening to a debate in this assembly is a sentence of violence committed by this government, it's an outrageous sentence. This Government implements the laws, in particular the Law adopted in this Honorable House in 2008. The reasons and arguments for why they should have brought it are well-known representatives of the call and representatives of the then executive authority. In every rule of law, the law must be respected even after a situation that is merciless and unfortunately, among other things, because of the manipulation of feelings, because of politics, there were bloody heads, there were serious injuries, there was almost a loss of life, but some were not enough either. Some fires are too weak to tell, so I guess one bujol of oil to throw at her for a little better planning. It would be fair and fair in the Croatian Parliament to conduct this duty with full responsibility against every citizen of the Republic of Croatia and constitutional legal order. But it seems that everyone is not aware enough, or perhaps they should be raised by a special salary that is being paid to us in solidarity, completely rightly reduced at these moments, so that they can read the Republic Constitution a little bit and understand how and how this honorable work should be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73214	Ada Damian replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73215	Thank you, Vice President. I'll go back to this part you mentioned. You mentioned that we don't want to be a police state, absolutely yes, I agree. But I also agree that order must be primarily expected to be carried out by the police. And I personally think that we should have even more powers than they currently have or more organisation and greater law enforcement. Namely, I'll just remind you because you mentioned a minor delinquency. We'll mention that we have a law that protects minors from being out half the night without an escort from adults. However, I don't know how much we're doing control of such a law at all, how much action has been carried out in Croatia at all, to see how many young people are out half the night. From experience, young people are outside and at three, four, five o'clock in the morning. Also another law that should generally protect our youth, which is again a matter of conducting a police reconnaissance, which is the Transport Act, where we also say that young drivers cannot drive a vehicle of certain power. However, controls are not done. So I say in this sense, here I would even argue that the police have greater powers in the reconnaissance and even in punishing not only, normally not minors but also parents who let them out late at midnight and parents who give them such powerful cars in their hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73216	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73217	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Members, I fully agree with you that surveillance and control preventions in the case of minors, juvenile delinquency, potential juvenile delinquency or one that happens to be insufficient. However, putting that part of police activity at an appropriate level and intensity does not mean that we should become a police state. When I talk about the police state, then I'm talking about a country where citizens are suffocating their fundamental freedoms, freedom of movement, their fundamental human rights, their safety by cops. So we need to find the equilibrium between police powers and the appropriate level of their intensity, their conduct and the protection of fundamental human rights and that the juvenile delinquency went beyond control, that we don't have enough control over all elements of the state system, when it comes to the stay of minors outside the prescribed, legally prescribed time after 23 hours, so enough to go to the bars on Fridays and Saturdays, enough to go to disco clubs, they don't even have to do that. There are inspectorates, or inspections, who are competent to do so. The fact is that it's not supervised enough, and in that part you have every right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73218	Srdjan Gjurkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73219	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I want to complete one part of your debate and it is related to the obligations that the Croatian police have to do with the Schengen Agreement and to the problem that is related to the control of the sea borders, which I do not think has been sufficiently processed by this law and has given certain powers to do so in an appropriate way and I think that because this first reading is good to point out that it would eventually be complemented so that the Schengen border could really be kept in the way that it must be done, do we know that it is not easy for us. It's nice to have a great sea border, but it should be provided in an adequate way. Another fact that this law is not in this bill to amend and supplement the Law on Police Affairs and Powers has not been observed and may not have been amended, which is why you have spoken a lot about the powers of inappropriate powers, and essentially the desire and intention of the police to do what is crucial and prevention, control all in the interest of the security of citizens, and this is that we often see that police officers do the job of postmen sharing certain correspondence or solutions in violation if I do not cheat traffic police, etc. Which definitely wastes the time needed, the expensive time needed to control the security and prevention of citizens sharing in homes, looking for something that can actually be done by the postal service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73220	Since you've been supplementing him, his colleague won't answer. And we're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73221	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what I think, with one law, we certainly can't solve all the issues that concern the affairs or powers of police officers. Here we have seen today in discussions and observations of various and practical examples etc. I hope that Mr. Deputy will write all of this down and forward it to the second reading and comments that are relevant will also be entered into the law. We also heard about the insubordination or the conduct of police officers. I don't think it's fair to police officers because we know they play a very difficult role and what conditions they're working on. There was also talk of not acting in the sense that for young people, they were actually out of respect for the laws of no inspection. However, I must stress here that the police are only one of the links in the chain of treatment of children, that we can also call inspectors and courts and parents and schools and local communities etc., etc. I think it's this one, and I realized this bill that it was that it was seen during the conduct of police officers that there was a lot of indetermination and that these remarks were somehow precise to those indiscretions that were being made. I'm not going to repeat them now because before we talk about them, we can read it from the proposal itself, but I'll look at only two things, and that's when you talk about the covertness of police work, undercover police work in terms of an ambush, etc. The time of 15 days is prescribed, so that it can be extended to 15 days. However, I wonder who can determine such a normative, meaning what happens on day 16 or what happens on day 31, whether someone can then be killed or bought by drugs, etc.? When you look at the examples from the practices we read through the media that we hear are being followed for months by a certain group that can be said jargonally pick up some of these criminals' habits. Thus, if everything is already talking about traps and ambushes, it may also be worth what it is worth to accompany or observe. Here we had a recent case when the carabiniers and police officers from BiH and other services participated, and they followed criminal groups for years because it cannot be limited. Because what do we want? We want protection, we want a product of protection for all of us, and on the one hand, we wonder if it can be misused. It is true that it can be misused but at the Director of Police it is also on those services to punish those who abuse it because when you look I will now tell an absurde. If we have a criminal on the loose, he's following a person, he's tracking his victim, and he's targeting his sick intent, and the one we expect to protect us here, you're suggesting that we limit it somehow. So I'm going to make a suggestion to think, and I don't know how you got to that 15+15, which would beg the answer because it's the product that matters to us, or to safety. The second thing I'm going to say very briefly is this video surveillance, which allows the most objective criterion to be judged whether a police officer has misjudged whether he has misused his powers, here and today we've heard somewhere guessed whether or not, on the other hand, whether the citizen has misjudged and is just as important this video surveillance that will protect the citizens from the "bad cops" we call it, and also the police against unfounded objections, complaints, etc. So this is how when you look at which body you can now decide, it was determined by the impression or by who had a better interpretation, the evidence was different. I think this way we can get a real, credible relationship so we can protect both a police officer and a citizen with such supervision. Here I think you've heard a lot of remarks and you'll appreciate the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73222	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73223	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the end, I would just like to thank you briefly for the discussion, a series of your reflections that are very interesting, suggestions and suggestions. Until the next thing you know, we're going to look very closely at all of your suggestions, suggestions, etc. I'd just like one sentence at the end. We all need one controlled, legal, efficient and determined Croatian police. Therefore, we are open to review all of this again and to come up with a solution that will give the Croatian police legal tools to curb criminality in the way in which it should ensure that the product called security for us, our families and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but the same thing never forgets that this organisation should be controlled, and in that sense we have offered some solutions that I think we will also add to the next period if we need to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73224	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73225	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, first reading, P.Z. No. 618. The debate on the proposal is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on police affairs and powers is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Please raise your hand so we can state who's to suggest a conclusion? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Thank you. Who's restrained? What's the score? I note that the proposed conclusion was reached by most votes, 86 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73226	We will discuss - Final bill on youth advice, second reading, PZ No. 457 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received their reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs. Maja Sporish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73227	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. The final proposal for a law on youth councils proposes to repeal the 2007 Youth Council Act. In fact, the current Law on Youth Tips over 6 years of application has shown a number of shortcomings, i.e. it has not fulfilled its basic function, which is to be the basis for young people to participate in decisions relating to young people at the level of units of local and regional self-government. The number of young people's established and functional advices, their work, co-operation with local and regional self-government units, and the real possibilities of consulting and affecting the decision-making process have not been achieved at a satisfactory level. According to local and regional self-government units, 19 of the 21 possible youth county councils have been established so far, 98 of the 127 possible city councils of young people and 143 of 429 possible municipal councils of young people. The data relate to those units of local and regional self-government where a decision has been taken to set up advice from young people, therefore only decisions, and not those in which the advice is established and active. The final draft of the law is the result of broad public debate and long-term consensus with stakeholders in the order of units of local and regional self-government, youth councils, youth associations and for young people and bodies of the state administration, all in order to promote the inclusion of the youth sector in making decisions of importance for young people and to seek to reach a broad consensus on the normative arrangement of this area. The final proposal for a law on youth councils responds to the perceived need to define more clearly the concept, role, goal and part-time advice of young people. The process of setting up and selecting members of the council is detailed, not involving the autonomy of local and regional self-government, but in a way to ensure a uniform standard of transparency and democratic principle. The catalogue of authorised candidates for members of youth councils has been organised and expanded to avoid discrimination against disorganised young people who are entitled to propose candidates for youth advice. The final bill defines the relationship between youth councils and units of local and regional self-government. The proposal regulates the participation of representatives of youth councils in the meetings of the representative body, the delivery of material for meetings and insight into discussions and the obligation to hold joint meetings of the representative body with the president of youth councils and to discuss topics and issues of importance and interest for young people. The proposal allows young people's advice to initiate decisions and to give opinions, proposals and recommendations to the representative body of their local and regional self-government units. Furthermore, the final draft of the law defines a way of providing financial resources for the work of youth councils and a minimum standard of the content of the Youth Council's work programme and its connection with the financial plan as well as the mechanism for mutual reporting of youth advice and units of local and regional self-government. In this way, the work of the council shall be directed and structured and official two-way communication shall be established between the units of local and regional self-government and the advice of young people. The proposed law controls the implementation of the law shall be placed in the power of the ministry responsible for young people. Using the management of the Youth Councils database, collecting information on the functioning of the advice, publishing annual reports and making recommendations to better functioning tips. During the debate on the draft law, certain observations were made which were considered and incorporated in the final proposal for a law. Among other things, the final draft of the law leaves the possibility for the Statute of the City of Zagreb to provide for the establishment of a Youth Council as advisory bodies of the City Council of Zagreb and also to define that the Council of the Young City of Zagreb, unlike the advice of young other units of the regional self-government, has at least 15 and not more than 21 members. This way special status is valued which the City of Zagreb has in its current regulations governing the area of local and regional self-government as well as the fact that the city of Zagreb far exceeds the number of inhabitants of each single county in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, provisions have been removed from the law which have been prescribed that the representative body will relieve a member of the Council of Youth before the term of office expires if he is given an unconditional sentence of imprisonment by a court of law. In view of the fact that such a reason for the resolution does not exist in relation to members of the representative body, and since impunity is not prescribed as a condition for membership in the Youth Council, there is no basis for the same regulation as the reason for the resolution of members of the Youth Council. In addition, a provision on disbanding the Council of Young People in the event of their inactivity, i.e. not holding a session for more than six months, is laid down by law. Clearer defined provisions on the cost of participation in the work of the Youth Council in such a way that it is prescribed that members of the Youth Council shall have the right to compensation for the transport costs for coming to meetings as well as other travel expenses directly related to the work and membership of the Youth Council in accordance with the decision establishing the Youth Council. The adoption of the final proposal for a Law on Youth Councils will take a step forward in regulating consultation with young people at local and regional level in the Republic of Croatia, and will allow for the establishment and better functioning of the Youth Council and those units that have failed to set up a Youth Council in the past period and ensure its smooth and successful functioning. The law will provide mechanisms for the participation of the Youth Council at the meetings of representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government as well as two-way communication and cooperation between representative bodies and their Youth Councils on issues of importance for young people. Youth advice is a form of active participation of young people in communities at levels where many decisions are made that directly affect people's lives. The active participation of young people is described in the documents of the European Union and the Council of Europe, and the democratic principles and standards of consultation that Croatia has adopted through the Constitution and numerous laws require us to guarantee a quality framework for consulting young people at local and regional level. So I urge you to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73228	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Oh, yeah, we had Branko Box, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73229	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, ma'am, you mentioned this is defined in Article 22(3) of the transport costs for coming to the meetings of the Youth Council. Since we have a large number of members of the representative bodies who gave up council fees for their work in any municipal, city council or county councils. You here say you have to pay for it. I don't know if it'll lead to a dispute that means councilman on the one hand and now this legal solution on the other. I think you should or should have put it in a way that according to the financial opportunities of municipalities, city or county, County pays for it. I don't know, I don't mind myself. I'm just saying taking care of the financial situation in the state today in many municipalities and cities I'm afraid it might be interpreted that way then.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73230	Replication response, Deputy Maya Sporish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73231	In view of the fact that the Young People’s Councils are mostly based on the words of young people who are students who do not work, who do not have any other source of income. It seemed unfair to us that from these young people, we would set a condition for them to pay for transportation from place to place. For this very reason, however, they will not, of course, be prevented from giving up transportation fees as council members in the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73232	This is the real cost, and the fee is something else. Oh, no? Now I'm asking the representatives of the board. Oh, no? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73233	Thank you, well-respected president, ma'am, for the co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So, the Law on Youth Tips is actually a document that determines the purpose and purpose of the Youth Council. So, the basic document of their operation and existence. The law on advice is one of the few things I have to say that literally went through the parliamentary procedure the way each of the laws should. So, he had a wide public debate, and I have to say that even so far, some of the comments have been made, so maybe here, if anything else could serve as some kind of an example so that we could make laws in the future. I believe that we all wish the young people the best and logical thing is that the law that we are discussing today should give some solutions that will give young people in their everyday lives the way they deserve, of course according to their abilities, their strength, their thinking, their effort above all, but above all, we need to create conditions for them to show who they are and what they are. Of course, burning problems that we are not talking about today, with which your young ones are confronted. So, I'm talking about unemployment is not going to be able to solve this law. We are faced with the fact that Croatia is 53% of unemployed young people right behind Greece and Spain, or third in the European Union. On the other hand, when we talk about recession, about the economic crisis, we're talking about Europe, and so we have Germany, Austria, where the same unemployment is about 5%. It is even more important to stress the quality of youth unemployment when looking at it in the long term. Unfortunately on this issue we stand even worse than the total number of people who are unemployed when we talk about young people who are long-term in that status there are about 55%. So, the continuity that absolutely does not pour any faith into their better future, and here we are right behind Slovakia in an invisible high second place. With the problem of unemployment, the issue of course is the problem of leaving the country so that in the past year we were abandoned by 15 thousand young highly educated people, many of whom are invested by family through society, who today are in their profession what they should be and such formed are leaving what they have to offer to other markets, which is very sad especially for our country, which is in the demographic situation as it is. Unfortunately, I am personally currently in the perspective of what is offered I do not see a solution to this burning problem which is most affected by our young people at this moment. When we talk about the advice of young people, we are faced with a low percentage of active advice that points to a lack of law enforcement while young people's lack of interest in running in these bodies point to a lack of information on instruments that can have a greater impact on processes and decision-making in their communities, therefore in the environments in which they live. And by not using the possibility of creating a better everyday life in which they themselves are. The past law, I think, has been in force for more than 6 years, but however, the advice of young people has not been established in all counties, so neither in cities nor municipalities and this final bill, so this second reading, it brings some changes, brings changes even in relation to first reading, and I would like to mention some of them. Although article 14 on how often council meetings should be held, I still think that the existing provision of the law is better, that meetings should be held at least once every two months. However, in the second reading, this observation has been partially accepted, and the provision for meetings to be held once every three months has been tempered in such a way that the sessions are held as needed, so that they can be maintained more frequently than once every three months. And that makes sense, sessions should be held as often as possible. For example, on the eve of municipal and city councils or county congregations. Young people simply have an opinion on everything and should be given an opportunity to speak, should be given the opportunity to create all those projects that will take place and that will bring them and all those who live together with them in the environments that represent a simple better life. The provisions relating to the chapter relating to the relationship between the Council of Youth and the Representative and the Executive Body should be welcomed. In the previous debate, the opinion was also heard that it would be good by law to prescribe that the President of the Youth Council receives, if necessary, directly from the mayor, the mayor or mayor, and that, in particular, we highlight the provision which obliges the mayor, mayor or mayor to hold a meeting with the Youth Council once every three months, and to discuss issues relating to the problems of young people but without restrictions. This way certainly encourages counsel for greater engagement and greater impact on opportunities in their communities. Furthermore, the possibility of setting up a Youth Council in the councils of the city districts of Zagreb is good, but perhaps we could go one step further and put it as a commitment, not just as opportunities. We are aware that certain urban districts exceed the number of inhabitants of many municipalities and cities that have this obligation and perhaps logically set up thinking that this could be an obligation in the city districts of Zagreb. The law leaves room for improvement of certain provisions and I will now mention some. The decision to allow young people with a registered residence in the local self-government unit to run for a member of the Youth Council is very good. This encourages active participation of young people in public life in cities with a high share of student and student populations, which comes from various parts of Croatia. However, in addition to that provision, there should be a provision for the termination of their term of office in the event of a change of residence. The law states that it is possible to be a member of only one Youth Council, however, it is not clear how these facts will be established and how they will be done in the event of non-compliance with the legal provision. This remains somewhat vague or unspeakable. How to check it or simply go to the consciousness of each member, simply trust him. Also, we at the HDZ Club still think we should ensure sanctions for not implementing the law. This law belongs to a group of incomplete laws where certain regulations and articles are prescribed and there is no possibility of sanctioning or sanctioning their non-implementation. The question is, what happens if you don't secure funds for the work of the Youth Council? What happens to the mayor, mayor or mayor of the municipality who doesn't provide funds for their work, whether he answers or not? Or, for example, what will happen if the representative body does not include and discuss as part of the agenda issues of young people's interest on a proposal for advice, what will happen to these municipalities, cities and counties that will not set up a Council? Well, nothing's gonna happen. On the one hand, we strengthen the role of the Youth Council, a fact, on the other hand. What kind of message are we sending like that? Probably a bit of a flat, anyway not complete and not clear above all incomplete. It seems about as a list of good desires, so we wish you all the best but how it will be for you to be told by the dear God. The applicant's lack of sanctions justifies the inability to impair autonomy in local and regional self-government and, in parallel, we have a large number of units of local and regional self-government that did not establish advice for young people and thus directly violate the provisions of the Law on Youth Councils. So we have 21 County, we only have 19 tips in 19 County. Of 127 cities in 98, we have advice from young people, or from 429, we only have 143 municipalities of established youth counsel. Basic advice in all counties, cities and municipalities is certain to work positively on that unit of local and regional self-government and that it is necessary to consider really how this law best regulates it in order to really do so. The final advice of young people continues to meet the same and similar problems they have had so far. Significant efforts will still need to be made in order to achieve a greater number of basic advices, in order to strengthen their engagement and activities in community work, in which way they would be given space to show their creation and thus entrenched space and content of the environment in which they live, and possibly their survival and survival in those environments. So, you have to give them trust, you have to give them freedom, and they'll certainly know it right back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73234	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73235	Dear Madam Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I agree with the introductory note that was made on behalf of the HDZ Club, we also share the view that this law was not only in the first reading but also in the process that preceded it indeed carried out one of the better discussions, even that debate we had in the list until last year, it was indeed one of the better discussions we had to discuss here. It seems to me that the good spirit of this debate has been translated into the text of the second reading, and indeed many of the remarks that have been made here are what our representatives and other MPs have been accepted and incorporated into the final text in which we are now discussing and indeed commending it on our part as we think that this is exactly how laws should be done. As in our first reading, we at the SDP Club support the Final Bill proposal and consider it a really big step forward compared to the current law. This refers in particular to a more precise and precise definition of the advice of young people and their purposes. It is really important for colleagues and colleagues to understand that the advice of young people is not a substitute for youth associations. The counsel of young ones cannot or should not carry out what they can do and what they do for young people and for young people. In particular, this refers to project implementation. It's not the job of advice from young people. It is great that, for the first time, the duties of the units of local and regional and regional self-government appear in the law of Article 5, according to the advice of young people, why we estimate that some of the bad practices we have had so far, which we have talked a lot about in the first reading and I don't think it is necessary to repeat them here. Furthermore, the provisions on the establishment, composition, selection of members and the establishment of youth councils have been significantly improved. On behalf of the SDP Club, I want to point out a few of us for the good news. First, to specify the content of the decision to set up advice for young people. Article 7 brings good news in view of the delicacy of our local units so that several units of local self-government can be established common advice of young people, and therefore they also object that there were no young people in many smaller municipalities in particular, but neither the means to actually make it possible for the advice of young people to have an advisory body of young people in such smaller units. Thirdly, when running for membership in a youth council, it is good that representatives of union and party springs can also run because they were now candidates not to lie here, they were under some other firm or under some other label and it is good that they can, as a matter of fact, be structured forms of youth action now and as such run, and that I especially want to point out, can run candidates and informal youth groups. This is particularly important in smaller areas where there are not so many organised forms of youth and can encourage participation of young people with less motivation and are not already members of some of the associations or any other organised form. It is also great that the law prescribes a secret vote to elect members of youth councils in representative bodies. Articles 13, 24, 25 are important The law and, in fact, the whole part of the law relating to the work of youth councils and their relationship with the representative executive body of the unit of local and regional self-government will seem to us in practice to bring the most good and necessary newspapers not only because we did not have it in law until now but rather as it is really good provisions. We strongly support the fact that the law regulates the formal relationship between the advice of young people and the representative body and obliges both representative bodies and mayors, mayors, mayors to cooperate with the advice of young people who will no longer be formal and protocold but real. Therefore, we support the provisions that speak about the delivery to the Youth Council of materials and calls for a representative body meeting on the need for permanent, concrete cooperation between the leaders and the advice of young people and the provisions that speak of the president of the Youth Council taking part in the work of the representative body and that, at the request of the Youth Council, the representative body must discuss a question of interest for young people at the first next session. It is a good change between the two readings and the one that precisely regulates, determines the relationship between the advice of young people and the executive body in a way that joint meetings must be held, that information must be written to the executive body, etc. The application of all these provisions will ensure the status of youth advice on decision-making to local communities in the manner in which the advice of young people should function and will prevent the continuation of some of the bad practices so far. It is important, too, that these new provisions are related to the supervision of law enforcement and the monitoring of the application of the law because there are no provisions in the current law at all. In fact, so far there have been no instruments, although there was a legal obligation that all local units should establish advice from young people. Many did not start them and we simply could not, or there was no way in which quantitative and qualitative analysis of the work of youth counsel could be conducted. We are pleased that our proposal for law enforcement reports to be delivered for discussion and committees in the Croatian Parliament is also accepted in this context. We believe that this debate will contribute to greater visibility of the work of youth councils, support the more active work of youth councils and generally involve young people in decision-making processes and may also have a positive impact on those units that, for these or those reasons, should not have established advice from young people. On the other hand, it will give us more insight into what is happening in the field in one full review, and then we will be able to react more actively if it is necessary to change the law. We've heard a lot of debate here in this previous club about whether or not we can actually impose any penalties on local, regional or regional self-government units if they don't have a council or if they don't. I'm afraid that our constitutional decree on the self-rule of local units doesn't make it possible for the only principle we need to have is this soft one so that we can prove that it's worth it because if we were to force certain units to just do not get punishment for setting up advice for young people, I don't think we would then achieve that function that youth advice should have. We from the SDP club thank the promoter for accepting our first reading proposal to open up some possibility for young people in the city of Zagreb to have advice or the possibility to participate in the advice of young people at two levels, as other young people do. First at the city or municipality level and then the county. A provision in the final draft of the law that says that the Statute of the City of Zagreb can also determine the establishment of a council of councils of young people in city councils. Given that we have received some written remarks, I would like to stress that I do not think it is good to mix Zagreb city districts with city districts and city halls in other major cities because the status of the city's fourth city of Zagreb is in line with the Law on the City of Zagreb and the Law on Local Self-Government rather than what these individuals and other major cities are. Fellow colleagues and colleagues, young people today are indeed the most politically weak population in Croatian society. Young people are now about 18% in the population, and there are between 0 and 2% in the authorities of young people at all levels. So much under-representation of young people is such a big problem for researchers who deal with young people that they are even declaring themselves a threat to the future of representative democracy. What further discourages is the fact also over several times confirmed by scientific research that as dissatisfied as young people are with politics and their own participation in decision-making processes. According to the same research, the participation of young people in decision-making processes as an important indicator of overall policy towards young people depends primarily on the political will of the authorities, or the simpler willingness of the elderly to leave part of the space or part of political power to the young. It is indeed the responsibility of the elderly and of us who decide. Of course, our party policies differ, some more, some less promote young people and give them more or less space, and in that sense I am glad to be a member of the SDP as a party that consistently promotes young people in this regard. And finally allow me colleagues and colleagues three notes that I find extremely important when we talk about the advice of young people and the general participation of young people in decision-making and social life processes at all. This law cannot and does not intend to solve youth problems from unemployment and beyond, it is a whole policy issue for young people, it is simply about solving or at least trying to bridge the weak participation of young people in decision-making processes. Secondly, based on some experiences in the application of this law, which are indeed colorful, the purpose of the advice of young people must not and must not be that the advice of young people be makeup bodies or that I do not know how to say this for showing the kindness and accessibility of local leaders and that the existence and work of youth councils should not be subject to the satisfaction of the promotional and political objectives of these same local sheriffs. Respecting all European recommendations but good experience from Croatia, we consider it necessary for young people's advice to be a real point of view for the partner relationship between young people and local authorities, that one way of restoring the confidence of young people in politics and including them in making decisions that concern them. And the third last and related to this previous context is extremely important to establish something called youth ownership in English, we translate it as the property of young people over the process. This is a very rough translation but this is about young people taking part in this whole consultation process with the support of the elderly but without the patronizing influence of the elderly. Finally, the SDP club will support the adoption of this law, we assess it with a significant step forward in the functioning of youth participation mechanisms in decision-making processes, and it does, although not formally but truly, that the participation of young and local authorities on topics and issues that are of interest to young people and at the same time provides equal opportunities for all young people regardless of the local community in which they live. It is hoped that as we develop our awareness of the need for participation of young people and mechanisms that enable this participation over a few years in the same way that we are now promoting the work of young people's advices, we will move on to the concept of youth councils, which is something different in terms of young people's advice. The youth councils are bodies chosen by independent elections, so they are not elected by representative bodies, they are then formal bodies within local self-government that have certain formal powers. It is a second and different concept we hope will live in Croatia as soon as possible. We in the SDP really want to see what more active young people are, we want to see functional advice from young people, primarily as educational activists, not political, and especially as political bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73236	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73237	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lugaric, I am pleased that you said that you as a party in that part are very flexible towards young people and that you have many young people but you are not alone, so you must understand that all parties have young people and give them the opportunity. And that here mine has 110 years of existence and we have a University Youth Organization as the oldest form of youth organization and a lot of young people in local self-government. And yet the one thing that often appears and I simply react to, did you try when running for local elections? Did you try to be sheriff in your place on your street? Give it a try. Before you say the sheriff's notion, run for office, win the election, and then we'll even talk about who the sheriff is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73238	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73239	I'm sorry to hear that you've misread me, perhaps I haven't spoken well. I didn't say parties don't have young people and don't have younger ones, they do. Some are more, some are less active, but the fact is that SDP has a 20% quota guaranteed in all party bodies and election lists, as seen at the end and by the composition of our representative club. As for the sheriff, I mentioned them in a negative context as individuals who are in the minority, who use all the institutions that exist and so the advice of young people for their political purposes. It is not all, it is not most, it is individuals and it is practices that must not be supported simply by anyone or here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73240	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73241	Thank you very much, Vice President. Respected deputy ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Youth Tips, and I would like to start by saying that the HDSSB Club will support this final bill because this is exactly the way we believe that from the first adoption of the law that was made in 2007 to these final changes should be the way of changes and other legal solutions, so it has not gone through an urgent procedure. We usually hold that young people are important to us so often and urgent, but this should be the way and procedure for discussion and in other legal solutions when we talk about them in the Croatian Parliament because there have been a number of round tables in the county, cities and that is what is good because it is the very positive, but also the negative experiences that have been in the units of local and regional administration that have certainly contributed to this crystallization of the legal solution itself. It is also a priority for us as people sitting in the Croatian Parliament, as well as for people acting in the units of local and regional administrations. I have already tried to make a decision in 2007, in Osijek-Baranja County we were among the first to set up advice for young people and I must say that my experiences were positive both in Osijek-Baranja County and in the city of Osijek. After they adopted the financial plan, they always followed the rules, giving suggestions on certain proposals and materials that went to both the city councils and the county congregations. And what made me particularly happy is that we often had a good brain streaming i.e. thinking about projects, project ideas that we later implemented through European Union funds and that is commendable, that is good, because not only use the funds of local administration units but multiply these funds through European funds. Looking at the final bill itself, then I'm sure it's good to hear people's experiences in local or regional administration units. I'm a little distracted by what my colleague Hrg just replicated about the sheriffs. It's hard to become sheriff somewhere, but we usually know that in the movies the sheriffs were positive, only in Croatia try to describe the sheriff as the bad guy. It is the same thing that is not good because there should be order everywhere, there should be law, there should be cooperation, especially in politics, between mayors, mayors, mayors, councils and young people. This is what connects us all, and these are the projects of offering better solutions to life in that unit of local administration where advice was established. I am pleased that in Zagreb some city districts are also looking at each other so that advice can be established. This is what is good, especially in major cities such as Zagreb and Osijek and Rijeka and Split where we have a lot of units, local committees and urban districts, and in fact one local committee or city quarter is like most average cities in the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore good to set up counsel at these levels as well. What is also defined is that, after the adoption of the law, the advice of young people must be realised within 90 days. We were also thinking about the law in HDSSB, but we have one problem that a good part of the local administration unit is also in the selection process of youth councils and we will, here we have sent an amendment to the advice of young people who have established or started with the selection process of new members according to the Law on Youth Tips, National No. 23 from 2007 to continue to work until the end of their mandate. Namely, in the Republic of Croatia, in several municipalities, cities and counties, the selection process of youth councils has begun, several of which are in the process of elections in the end, so they are simply not confirmed by the assembly or city council. So either consider giving a suggestion or accepting this amendment that we don't have to go back to the election on advice, and we're already at the end. Youth advice is an advisory body, not a political body. They do their job as a volunteer, but it is important that Article 22 is provided to ensure their..., we know that most students are just in the advice of young people and choose them. Therefore, this particular cost, just before, was said by the Vice-President of the Parliament that it was a cost for young people to come to these sessions and to be present because you are just defining one article if they do not come and you are solving this problem together, i.e. if there are no meetings either president or vice presidents, they shall be sanctioned. I think it's a good thing. If this changed in the Croatian Parliament, there would probably be a lot of punishment, but looking at the advice of young people, I think it is good because just coming and participating in the debates can be very helpful to the units of the local administration from which they come. What I mentioned earlier, it is a partnership of youth advice on EU projects, and it should be a guideline in most units of local and regional administrations in the Republic of Croatia, how to withdraw as much funds as possible. Because it is visible that Croatia at this time, and we are afraid that it will be so by the end of the year that it will pay more membership fees than it will withdraw funds. Therefore, just through these young, educated ones, I would say children who speak very much foreign languages and know how to write projects and programmes can work together with them and education that are very helpful in realising and withdrawing funds. It's a co-decision on the means. It is also important because they bring in the financial plans and the funds that we make for the Councils are well discussed and agreed as they reach the final financial plan. It is evident that they have spent their resources everywhere, and that is also important, because then it is visible when they co-determin money, then there is a desire to engage right through the Councils of Young People. What appears in Article 7 is that two units of local administrations can jointly organise the Council is a good example, but this should be an example for some other problem solving, and there is already a feeling that fusion and unification of several units of local administrations, especially those who have income per capita below 1000 kuna. These are units of local administrations that cannot serve their current obligations, not the financing of individual programmes and projects, and there they need to find common solutions and go right to the unification of local administration units, although Article 7 suggests this through the Councils, but it should also be a guideline for the adoption of other legal solutions. There was a talk just before about the Youth Council. We should also assume what will happen and whether we will go with the Youth Councils, because it can also contribute to both political and other life units of local and regional administrations. What is important is that units of local and regional administrations provide funds, that they sit not every 6 months but every 3 months, and more often, if necessary, to discuss these topics with Youth Councils, and there is one constructiveity, there are good solutions. But there was also a moment before the talk about all the problems our young people face from unemployment, from leaving the Republic of Croatia but also from looking at our demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia, then surely as a club we express concern and that we should find common models not only through Youth Councils, but also through other opportunities for young people to get more chances in Youth and Economic Councils, but also in the political life of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the HDSSB club will support this Final Bill proposal and we believe this should be one of the ways in which other laws are passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73242	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HNS club Marijan Skvarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73243	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected deputy ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. First of all, I also join one commendation that this Law on Youth Tips is very well defined in two readings by the specifics and aspirations that we should all strive together and strive to really develop not only at our level of local, regional self-government but also the whole of Croatia must be based on young people and, of course, on educated people. And during this, we believe that the adoption of this Law will contribute to what is the main objective of this law, which is the participation, information and counselling of young people in our municipalities, cities and counties. Of course it's not, and it shouldn't be just a one-way process. He demands the will and engagement of both sides. It rightly requires and stresses the partnership relationship between young people and, of course, older members of our local self-government and those who are essentially making a decision. And what ultimately is and must be and can be useful for both young people and the entire social community. It is true that this benefit, or potential, was not recognized by all our units of local and regional self - government. And yes, when we have here an analysis that 10% at the county level established Youth Councils, 77% at the city level and only 33% at the municipality level. Now the question is whether there is a problem within local self-government, whether there is a problem there, and perhaps in the context of young people getting more involved in dealing with their rights, obligations. I think the truth is always somewhere in the middle. Of course, much of it can be said that there have been many difficulties, unequal application in practice, and that is why we in the HNS club absolutely welcome the creation and adoption of this Law. About these difficulties that arise can indeed be said as mayor, here in the part of the conduct of duty for more than 12 years at the city level, that rarely who from the first managed to put together a Council of Young People. Here's the big part, and it didn't, but at least here's my town, the town of Leprechaun didn't hesitate, and among the first we also initiated and here we managed to define and set up a Youth Council. Yes, the law was passed over six years ago, and neither our young nor our little adults then took advantage of all the opportunities that the Law on Youth Tips provides. During this new law, a broad debate was held and was attended by many interested representatives and MPs during the debate in the first reading that showed great interest and submitted many constructive proposals. What is most important once again to praise these constructive proposals have been largely incorporated into this Final Proposal of the Youth Act. And here's what he's really saying, first of all, and to all of us, it's gotta be a good part of the consensus. And, of course, we at the HNS Club are pleased to find some suggestions in this final proposal and also some suggestions from the HNS. For example, members of the Youth Council, i.e. their representative or representative, shall have the right to take part in the meetings of the representative bodies as well as in the debate. So, on all issues related to young people, they have the opportunity to participate, discuss and propose and do so right there and right where these decisions are made and made. And that seems crucial to us, that's one of the main intensities of this law. When we look at the whole law, this paper has been passed, and here we are, as mayor and within the city councils and county councils, we have no objection because the procedure, the protocol in that part itself, to any issue under this law can be found an answer. The answer regarding the basic provisions, the response concerning the establishment of the Youth Council, the composition of the Youth Council, the selection of members, the establishment of councils, the mandate of the members themselves, the part-time work of the council, the way of work, the cooperation of the Youth Council, the means for their work, the relationship between the Council of Youth and the representative body, the supervision and the transitional provisions. It really seems to me that this law passed that test, I can personally say at the level of professional services to everyone when we were looking for certain faults we practically couldn't find them, I think that this law will first of all be very applicable, good, and it will be one that can be implemented. We also find it important and good to introduce the obligation to meet representatives and representative bodies with members and members of the Youth Council. And not only that, it is binding on the mayors, mayors and mayors to inform the Youth Council every 6 months on all activities of importance or interest for young people. So I wanted to specifically point out as mayor really about the basic provisions of the establishment and composition of the election of members part of the control is a large part of the powers of the President of the Council, i.e. the representative body. So, municipal and city councils. But we, too, mayors, mayors and mayors, are the ones who propose to these municipal, urban and county assemblies and councils of programmes, projects and yet we and this cooperation must be with young people that, at the beginning of such proposals, young people must actively participate. That's a pretty good definition for us. The law regulates the obligations and rights of members of the Youth Council and of those they advise, i.e. with whom together and how they should be involved in making decisions concerning them, decisions concerning young people. This is ultimately useful for the whole community because participation of young people is not just about the development of active citizenship and strengthening democracy, by engaging in the world around them young inputs and changes. And what are these changes? I would like to say, perhaps, from an example of good practice, that I may never and possibly doubt many of my colleagues to see whether these young or young people’s advice is a problem, a burden perhaps even some financial burden. We shouldn't be looking at that. Perhaps we should consider that this cooperation of young people is participation in decision-making, and there should be no law like this at all because the law is a certain force and part of that we have something to adhere to. No, it's supposed to be our active taste of action. So we need not only to look at this counsel of young people but young people as a whole. What we have defined in this area of my city is that the Council of Young People, that is, above all, an advisory part in the work of mayors or city councils, but there are youth associations, independent youth associations and many also associations where young people are mostly participating. It is then their main activity to enrich their local environment in which they live. So if we look at the example of good practice that at the beginning as the town of Lepoglava we gave space, free space for the use of all youth associations, of course, and the advice of young people on the cost, if we look at a little mathematics and a bill so that the cost at an annual level is no more than 5000 kuna if we give these support, daily notes, or for the cost of 4 to 5 times a year from 5 to 15 members of such advice. If it's a lot of mayors, the mayor anywhere in Croatia for that kind of work, then I don't think we could really say if such a municipality or city should function. And we have opportunities to unite more and more of them to then share costs and to make such advice for young people. And what I'd also like to say, what we got from it. So when we asked young people what they needed, they knew it best, then in 2005, in our area not only of the city but of the entire county, we had free transportation of all high school students, then we already went to projects where we had practically three primary schools in my field since 2005, district schools, all in one shift. Then on the basis of these projects and these tips and these ideas we financed all the extracurricular, all the teaching activities. Also, on the basis of these ideas, we also defined one project of excellence that we supported all students, high school students, students if they achieved certain successes at any level, municipal, city, county, state-level support, received awards. We really scholarship more than 30% of all students in our field, to have the possibility of education by acquiring new knowledge, skills other than attending a music school that is again co-financed, cultural societies, learning foreign languages and many things. And I would especially mention that we do not speak in vain, but we do have almost a dozen checked EU projects, and not only locally but internationally. And I'm glad that here thanks to young people and the town of Leprechaun feels young. When we had more than a few hundred young people, practically from all over Europe, who came to Lepoglav and our young people who visited them where what was important was changing knowledge, they gained new experiences. What's said about employment, yes, but you can't just wait for someone to give you a job, you have to actively look for it, and you have to... Maybe self-employment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here are new knowledge that we must receive from young people and work with them. Here, it's an example of good practice where I once again say that in young people, the world remains. We need to help, especially us mayors, the mayors who have the right to make decisions and we have that responsibility to actively involve them in the work of our local communities. And here is also their perspective, skills and experience affecting the quality and development of society. We at the HNS Club believe that the adoption of this law will also affect it and that is why we support it. I'd also mention that along the way... I have instructed perhaps still that during this one transitional period and this transitional period I think while all the counties, all the cities, all the municipalities will not have their own advice to the young, that these reports except the board that they are still coming to this Assembly, and that in this part we, through these discussions and these reports, will try both the legal bases and experiences to help to get the advice of young people more actively involved in the work of our societies and that those who need and these are local and regional self-governments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73244	Thank you, too. On behalf of the National Minority Club, Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73245	Thank you very much, Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the debate so far, there have been principles but there have also been some concrete observations regarding this text of the law. In an explanation and the rapporteur also stressed that the current law did not give the expected results and particularly worries that out of 429 municipalities only 143 established and even one county did not, even cities. And this law in the last article, the 28th is also said to need to make that decision within 90 days of the entry into force of the law. I've already pointed out at that point several times that we have local self-government, municipalities that simply objectively about me, for objective reasons, are unable to implement certain regulations. More than one third of the municipalities were unable to bring their spatial planning documents, which later resulted. Also, more than 50% did not bring in a programme of agricultural land and not to say I have knowledge quite concrete that certain local self-governments are not absolutely capable of carrying out a more complex public procurement, they have to hire someone from outside, you know, who are the mayors, the mayors that this is quite a serious thing. Here is the law, and we will probably accept it in the second reading with certain changes but it was passed 6 years ago and only 143 municipalities have brought this advice and we do not have any specific knowledge of how these tips work where they are founded. This problem, I would like to share in three parts, one section of this advice concerns the choice of the representative body decides or chooses on the proposal, however, there would be a very specific proposal in Article 9 where it is mentioned, the authorised applicant etc., etc., that it would be good to add one sentence to take care of the territorial representation in the municipalities, because you can happen that from the seat of the municipalities, clearly these are the most numerous places, from 7, 5 or 7 I am talking now mainly about local communities up to 5 thousand in rural areas, could be from 7, let's say, 4 or 5 from that place and another from three villages that there will be none. I think that would be quite logical, to put in a sentence in that sense, to suggest that it be taken into account. Another problem is the content of the work. It is very nice here in the explanation that it is an advisory body, a representative body or a municipal council in this case, first of all I did not stress in the introduction that there is a huge difference in the work of the advice and in the content of the work between rural areas and then to say so between Osijek and Zagreb. I think that's very clear and clear for everyone. So, as far as these rural areas are concerned, maybe I should even be able to determine that again we do not get into the situation that the vast majority of these small municipalities will not bring them in, it would not be, it would be a smile to say but some elements of volunteering to do in the establishment and in the work, especially in the specific environments. I am therefore afraid, therefore, that with this law in some environments, we do not create a solid legal basis for various meetings, an exchange of views that usually usually end with households, and then everyone finds that it has been very, very useful. Now they've hosted us, next time we'll host them and so on. And then it's just a certain cost if these meetings have a lot, then it's a relatively large cost. Here we have even received an amendment from our colleagues, the Croatian, who proposes to delete it here in Article 22, that they do not have the right to work, which I agree with. However, it is now a matter of content if this council constructs the content of work in this regard, then it has the right, or the local community, to provide in the budget the means to do so. Now, I ask you what could happen where I am, Commissioner, if a group of young people from that council made contact with young people from Valpova, or I don't know Osijek, another group in terms of composition and population, and advice in that case with young people from Pechuha, and a third group with young people from Somboro, and everyone would make their own cooperation programme, there would be meetings, etc. I think that would be quite a bit of financial security then. And in one environment, I have to point out quite loudly, where we are now thinking about it, and we've already decided to turn off every other light bulb so that we can give 200 kunas to those really at risk for Easter instead of 150, and that's 10,000 for those 300, 400 people, and to secure 25, 30 grand for various encounters here, that's a little bit like this for me, I would say a sensitive and financial question. Therefore, we must not ignore this aspect of the funds so that they can function successfully. Otherwise, it is certain that, as an advisory body, the relationship between the local community of the municipal council and the chiefs with young people, at least they may not even resent me, perhaps even for a small shade and more important than with the Association of Retired People, because the world remains for young people. Therefore, this cooperation is necessary and I think this law will help in this respect. Just a question down on the ground how will these young people use it rationally to really contribute to overall development, not to create a municipal budget of additional significant expenditures that will be very difficult to justify, especially if these various meetings finally bring up some other problems that we discussed at the previous point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73246	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73247	Thank you, Vice President. Well, it was interesting to listen to your debate about young people with the fact that one moment you said you actually pulled a parallel between some jobs and powers in the units of local self-government and the need to establish advice of young people, so you said that some municipalities were not able to set up advice for young people or that they were unable to do some work, so you said that for example that one third of the municipalities were unable to bring space-planning documentation or let's say that one half of the municipalities did not have a programme for agricultural land, and that we are not talking about doing more complex public procurement. So I think it's actually totally inappropriate to make such comparisons. These are really complex jobs in local self-government units, and setting up advice for young people, I think it's just a matter of will and a little bit here now by new financial means, so this could never be compared to these complex jobs that you've been talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73248	Thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73249	My colleague, I'm sure we didn't understand each other. I was just about to point that out and bet on it if there's a regulation to respect it. I'm in favour of respecting both that agricultural land law and the planning documentation. I'm just wrong because there's a law there that says that if they don't do it, then the government will not know or the Parliament seems to be disbanding me. And if there is such a provision here, and within 9, 10 days it is not established, that advice shall not be chosen and that municipal council shall be disbanded and sanctions shall be imposed. But I don't think we're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73250	Thank you. Maria Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73251	Dear fellow Shoja, that it is truly justifiable that the skepticism that you are bringing out and some others are going to be a little harder to apply this law especially in the smaller environments. But to the newspaper that this law carries, they make it possible to apply significantly to the fact that young people who are not in associations can apply, which was the problem last time because you simply did not have any association in many municipalities that could run at all. However, I do not think we should, despite all possible problems, express in advance the skepticism that something will not be possible because then we give a pretext that something is not made for now, there is really no reason to do so. Each and the smallest municipality at least needs to make a budget, make decisions on co-financing of certain programmes, and this is where the advice of young people has its content of action and can give its opinion. The second around the costs especially in smaller areas where there is no travel costs are small environments or they are the minimum advice of young people must have no other cost. The Youth Council is not a youth association that then implements certain programmes that have its budget in this way. We are now clearing up the situation a little bit, and the advice of young people is indeed an advisory body. Before each session of the municipal council, they look at one or two or none of the acts relating to young people and give their opinion on it, it is their basic function and it is their business. The Youth Council does not conduct surveys, does not conduct consultations, meetings with other cities, counties etc. It's the work of a youth association. And I actually think it's important to point out how the advice of young people if they want to if they really want to deal with minimum or almost no budget except travel expenses. In the smaller environments then travel costs are very low. They'll be slightly higher at the county level but actually all the rest is that there's almost no cost. Regular meetings with the mayor, the mayor, the mayor and monitoring meetings of the municipal council or any representative body are something that has no cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73252	Thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73253	I agree very much with your findings, however, and I wanted to point out and warn you, and that material moment is often the way we often feel about lifting up, by voting a regulation in a particular environment, we have automatically caused no small costs. I can now say if we have to deliver material for the council meeting to the council, deliver it to the members of the minority council that I have twice 10, that's 20, deliver them the records and the young people plus more... that instead of 13 or 15 materials it will be 55 to 60 materials and after the minutes and then every 3 months hold talks with them. If there's a fat lawyer out there without a job who's gonna take it into his hands and really advocate law enforcement, then down in the field, to be so little raw, not to say making life miserable, and not to say that at the same time from paper to work, that's what someone needs to do, it costs. That's all I'm warning you about, otherwise I'm for cooperation and for maximum understanding within those reasonable limits.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73254	Thank you. Comrade Shaw, maybe by electronic means, you should try it. Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73255	Thank you very much. Well, I don't think that we should primarily be on youth right away, especially since there's not a lot of squirm here as it has already been said, it's just a matter of will. It is a matter of will whether young people really want to get involved, whether we want young people to participate actively, or if we want to have only formal reasons to say that we have them. If we want to include them then let them work, propose, be active and trust a colleague there will be no cost, there will be no problem because the programme of youth advice ultimately adopts the municipal council and confirms it. So there's no problem at all, everything is pre-recognizable and what financial resources are and what the programme is and what the young will do. So I think you as chief and local official must have the will and desire for young people to work. In this way, we young people are actually educated, taught them, and in the end, political parties are composed of councils, each of them has youth organisations, and this is a great way for young people to learn work in representative bodies, to develop this one model of democracy, and that tomorrow we have quality people who will be chiefs, sheriffs, positive sheriffs, representatives or something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73256	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Shaw, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73257	And I read that sentence very carefully about how the municipal council would accept that program. Therefore, this unequivocally results in me being simple again, that the municipal council will decide whether your young people will travel to Sombor, Pečah or Osijek. It's very important and I find it so likable in that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73258	Thank you. A deputy minister called for the word. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73259	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now, I've been waiting for all the debates on behalf of the clubs to be concluded, so I would now go in line with everything that's in a way we're going to say criticism, although the criticism wasn't too much, we'll say more suggestions, and in all praises, of course we thank each other. As for sanctions, sanctions for non-compliance with the law in its district, there is no representative Milas here, in its district is the responsibility of the Ministry of Administration, while in its district it is for the non-compliance with the law for supervision of the competent Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, all in accordance with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and is an emphasis precisely on this last part of the sentence. If we establish irregularities, we're following the Law on Local Self-Government. Unfortunately, in those cases, if the local self-government unit does not provide the means for the work of youth councils, we cannot sanction them with this law, and you probably all know it very well, but what we are counting on will be one of the very strictest things, because this information will be placed on the web pages of the ministry responsible for young people, and what is the worst consequence we believe and believe in so much awareness of citizens, and that is the political penalty in the next local elections. I believe in so much consciousness. It is very acceptable for us to propose that the advice that has been set up or started the selection process for the members to continue their work until the end of the term of office. It's a very good proposal and we're considering maybe a little bit of a modified acceptance of such an amendment because we think that now we really shouldn't go cut an axe in those processes that have started rather than simply go slowly and that it's slowly changing. I am very pleased when the project activity of youth counsel was mentioned, which was used by the word partnership. Youth advice will not have the possibility of projects of activity because so far in these 6 years of law enforcement are desperately bad experiences. Some have abused it in a very ugly way. The examples of Ludbreg and Zlatar are highly commendable, where young ones are well organized. They use EU funds, use other funds through tenders, make valuable projects, but I stress in partnership with certain associations, and this is the right way. So the partnership is necessary for project activity. Finally, regarding Article 9 and Article 9, for the obligation of the territorial distribution of members of the council, I think that would have blocked me somewhat and led me to block the choice of members of the council. Here, let me make a little joke, I mean, there's not every village in a certain municipality of the councilman and the obligation to have one councilman. I don't see how we should prescribe that kind of advice. Some of the facts are that in certain parts of the municipalities there is a greater representation of young people, but I might prefer some quality over quantity and territorial distribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73260	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Nadica Jelash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73261	Thank you, Deputy. The esteemed deputy minister with a co-worker, respected co-workers and colleagues. We are all more than aware that today the young generation is faced with major problems, which are mostly the same as the outcome. It is about the inability to hire, the inability to achieve existence, and then, of course, the establishment of a family and, in general, any other advancement. I'd say the young are living on a historic paradox today. Namely, after obtaining a degree and inability to hire, they continue their education. So they're willing to still invest in themselves, not waste useless time. So to gain additional knowledge and the highest possible competences, master's degree, doctorate, and again and after all, I can't get a job. And that's actually the paradox. The harder it is for young people to get a job today, the harder it is to hire for a very simple reason simply no jobs. The young are actually one huge dead capital, the capital in which we all invested, and so today we can't use it. Of course, it's not a choice of young people. They don't really have a choice right now. On the other hand, we are witnessing the lack of interest of young people in politics and then of engagement in the authorities. Young people do not recognize political engagement as a tool for solving their problems, i.e. as a tool for affecting their status. Youths need politics and politics need young people, politics needs creativity and youth enthusiasm. On the other hand, young people should be involved in the activities of representative authorities. They should simply not be concerned about who and how they decide to spend budget public money, which projects are realised, which are not, what needs are being met and which are not, where it is in this meeting the interests of young people. One word to young people must not matter how they decide their future. When we first discussed the Law on Youth Tips, we agreed that they were a good model for involving young people in the public life of local communities, but still insufficiently recognized by young people themselves. And we have to say, and this is in these discussions, in fact on several occasions, it has been pointed out that even local self-government has not broken up much of an effort to initiate the establishment of a Youth Council. Namely, as we have heard, neither the county nor the day today have yet to have established advice from young people. In cities, however, the worst situation is definitely in the lowest forms of local self-government, so in municipalities. Of the 429 municipalities of only 143 have established Youth Councils and definitely regardless of these specificities spoken by fellow Shoja, therefore we cannot say that there are some huge reasons why Youth Tips are not established. So, first of all, they were not founded because there was no real political will to establish them. Unfortunately, and where they are founded, the advice of young people is often a dead letter on paper, too often due to the poor relationship of local leaders to them, so according to the Youth Councils, for which young people were sooner or later rescinded, even the disappointed gave up every engagement. I'd say as in a number of other cases, we're adults. We have not worked hard enough to help young people, to direct them, and to convince them of the need to engage in the public life of local communities. Therefore, it is good that this final draft of the law includes a series of remarks and proposals that significantly alter this relationship, so the relationship between local self-government, local authorities towards youth councils, makes this relationship more quality, I would say more serious and attractive. Now this is far greater than the previous relationship based on the principles of cooperation or as the deputy said nicely on the principles of partnership with the provision of political, administrative and financial support. Better cooperation and political support will be achieved primarily through clearer provisions on how the representatives of the Youth Council participate in the work of local self-government representative bodies. Namely, the President, Vice-President or other member of the Youth Council will have the right and duty to attend the meetings of the representative body, with him not being a passive observer but having the right to participate in the debate without, of course, the right to vote. The co-operation also strengthens the provisions under which the municipal chief, mayor and mayor will hold joint meetings with the Youth Councils to discuss issues of interest for young people. These meetings will be held as necessary, at least every three months. Moreover, every six months local leaders will inform the Youth Council on their activities, which are important and interesting to young people. The Ministry of Social Policy and Youth also receives certain obligations. In fact, it will publish annual reports on the implementation of the Law on Youth Councils on its web pages, but it will also submit these reports to the boards of the Croatian Assembly responsible for young people as well as local, or regional self-government. What is important for this mutual relationship between local authorities and the Youth Council is the fact that the Councils of Youth through this final legal solution receive certain obligations. Namely, they will have to hold regular sessions, at least once every three months, and more often if necessary. For the first time, the law also included a proposal on disbanding the Council of Youths in the event of their inactivity with a clear notion of inactivity, which is inactivity. Therefore, the advice is inactive if it has not met or held a session for more than 6 months. Much clearer now is defined in this final proposal and financial support to the advice of young people. In fact, the law stipulates that members of the Youth Council are entitled to compensation for transport costs for coming to meetings and other travel expenses related to engagement in the Youth Council. This is important and this is interesting since members of the Youth Council are mostly students and other young people who do not have permanent monetary incomes. In the end, I would say that I believe that all these changes will act encouragingly on young people, that, with these provisions, the advice of young people will indeed become one quality, advisory mechanism to the representatives of the authorities in the process of making political decisions and will contribute far more than ever to the equal involvement of young people in addressing their needs and interests in local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73262	Thank you. Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73263	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. So I would look at some of the statistics that we have received from each other in the materials at the beginning, but they are very important because they talk about the state today in Croatia, which is that with today only 19 of the 21 county councils, 98 of 127 city councils, 143 of 429 municipal ones were founded. And the real situation is even worse since some young people's advice has expired and no re-implementation procedures have been carried out for the appointment of new members and some have not been established even after the public tenders have been carried out. So basically, in the real situation, there are even fewer of those tips that actually work. And this is an indication that the law that has been in force for the past six years has not been brought to life as it should and that this bill is necessary and that it certainly needs to be welcomed. I would briefly mention and highlight some of the advantages in this proposal for a new Law on Youth Tips that I mentioned in the first reading, which is that so far has been the weak motivation of young people to get involved in the work of the advice, that there have been failed competitions. Here we have an example in Rijeka that while the first meeting of the Youth Council was established we have conducted three competitions which have not received enough candidates, and in some smaller environments after one, two or three failed competitions have generally dropped out of the general constitution and establishment and formation of the Youth Council. In my view, the role of the Youth Council was unclear as this bill changes, i.e. the role and purpose of the Youth Council is strengthened as detailed and clearer as possible. The chairman of the council is now calling for meetings of representative bodies, regular meetings with the president of the representative body. The members of the council who do not attend more than 50% of the sessions are automatically excluded from the advice which was simply not possible so far, so there was a block of advice because you had legal restrictions on the council to disband and return the work eloquent. More precisely, a way of selecting members of the Youth Council is defined. Now it's much clearer, more transparent and more precise. Since so far it took a series of certificates and different interpretations in certain environments, some associations and organisations did not allow their representatives to run for youth counsel while in others. Now it won't be possible anymore because it's really detailed. It is also important to welcome the possibility of running for informal youth groups, which will certainly bring and extend that database to possible members of future councils and allow young people who are not active in political parties and some other organisations to actively engage in all issues in their place. I also support the extension of the mandate to three years since this should improve the effectiveness of the work of the council because two years is too little definitely and something can be done at the age of three. And now I'd like to mention a little bit of those changes that took place in this final bill compared to the first reading. This is anticipation of the establishment of a Youth Council for the City Council of Zagreb which de facto have status as cities and municipalities throughout Croatia, so compared to the proposal in the first reading, the City of Zagreb was definitely denied what is changing this final proposal. I would also like to welcome the obligation of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth to have the Law Implementation Report delivered to the relevant parliamentary committees in addition to the publication on its website, so that we legislators will be able to follow the law on the ground, so that if we need to change it before we can, and not that it happens to us as now that we have been waiting for six years for some changes to improve the situation on the ground. Technical regulations that improve the transparency of publication and implementation of competitions via the Internet have already been mentioned in the first reading why this is very important. A provision that allows the advice of young people to be disbanded if they do not hold a session for more than 6 months, that is what counterpart Jelash now mentioned, should certainly motivate advice to work, and if they do not, then they could be quickly transformed or re-elected. The obligation to hold a meeting of the Youth Council at least once every three months is what is always good when it is given some kind of deadline and some kind of obligation when they need to work and meet. It is also clearer to define the participation of representatives of the Youth Council in the work of the representative body in such a way as to have the right and obligation to attend the meetings of the representative body with the possibility of participating in the debate but without the right to vote. This is certainly good, since members of the council, i.e. representatives of the Youth Council, will now be able to discuss and discuss issues concerning them as they certainly strengthen the role and importance of the advice, and could lead to greater motivation for inclusion in its work. It is also prescribed that the mayor, mayor and chief of staff shall meet together with the advice of young people at least once every three months and discuss all topics of youth interest and cooperation between the head of the unit of local self-government and the council. The obligation to submit a written report by mayors, mayors and mayors on activities of importance for young people is published every 6 months instead of once a year, as proposed in the first reading, which is certainly a good shift since more frequent contacts lead to greater quality of work. And I'd say only two sentences from the first reading. I'm really sorry that it didn't pass that the members of the youth council have fees, that I don't repeat myself now in relation to the first reading, I think that I should have allowed cities and municipalities to make compensation if they wanted to and if they were able to, but in general I'm always against every ban and imposition, so I can't accept it so that the law imposes on someone not to do anything. In this regard, I should have made it possible for the cities and municipalities to decide whether to make compensation or not, and once again, to stress that all committees, working bodies, commissions in cities and municipalities, all these members are getting some compensation and I think it is wrong that young people and this group of societies are limited to that right but good. The law is all good, it's a great suggestion compared to now, and I'll support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73264	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Branko Hrg here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73265	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Djujic, obviously you could support this amendment of mine to delete an article that speaks of it, about banning compensation for young people, but that's not why I answered. In fact, you said that there were problems in some units of local self-government where competitions were practically not reported by anyone where there was no interest among young people. I don't get it. I cannot understand it at all because, as I said earlier, the council is nevertheless composed of councilors mostly from political parties, although the parties have their own youth then it is normal that if they do not already appear associations and other forms that at least the parties will run for their youth to choose for counsel. You also talked about allowing young people to actively engage within political and activity parties. I totally agree with that. I am a witness of a time when there was no youth organisation at Croatian level in my party for seven years. That was terrible. It's like we've robbed a family without children, but now I'm asking you a question if I'm not mistaken and if I've read it correctly, you're officially the official president of the youth SDP forum. You were chosen in 2010, your year is no longer in those frames because you allow young people to get involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73266	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73267	My colleague Hrg, the first part of the replica was not enough engagement on political parties, yes, I think here's an example of the city of Rijeka, which is a big city, so it's not a small town, so a city of 150 thousand residents from the third attempt through a competition to do this, just formed the advice of young people. There was no interest, we were then there as a forum of young SDPs and HNSs, or the ruling coalition at the level of the city of Rijeka, and we were at the first and second and third tender in the hope that associations would appear, we had run 11 out of 11 to fill the party story because in our neighborhood the view that the advice was not meant for political parties, so we always ran 4, 5 or 6 as far as we thought it would be under half, but we did well from the third attempt. Certainly the parties should have a great influence. As far as I'm concerned, I am the president of the Youth SDP Forum of Croatia in three, four months I won't be, I'm young, I'm 32 years old, so here are my colleagues in HDZ, and they have a youth of up to 35 years, we're a member of the Ecosy and Jusy where my membership is up to 35 years old, so I don't see a problem in my age, there are organizations where membership I say bigger than we do in a youth forum and when I was elected, elected 28 years old, yes, normally I allow young people to get involved in politics. So youth forum, so there is almost no middle in Croatia where there are no council members from the youth forum of Croatia, we have several parliamentary representatives, I don't know how many of them you have from youth ranks, so I don't know how many HDZ colleagues have. So we have Deputy Mayor Sisak, we have Deputy Mayor of Rijeka, we have a number of our members who have responsible functions all over Croatia, so I think that's exactly how much of the SDP involvement of young people is in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73268	Thanks, buddy. Branko Hrg reported further for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You only have class but you formally did not follow your own rules, that's what I was going to say. So, regarding this law back in 2004, in 2005, the pilot project was launched for youth councils in local self-government units, a network of young people started it. I was lucky and had the chance to be a sheriff and to have as a city to say so to the council of young people. Later, this youth council was declared one of the best examples in the practice of co-operation between local self-government and youth councils. Of course, as soon as the law came out, the one that is already almost yet existing but almost the former that we immediately continued to work on it, made a new advice for young people, and that it works that way all the time, and in principle this amendment that I have submitted is not my amendments, these are the amendments to the advice of young people who have given me and I have taken the obligation to make them so, to speak of them. Since there was again the fifth conference, it seems to me, young people in Zagreb and yet there have been examples of good practice, there have been cases where young people have mentioned that even, not that they are not invited to representative bodies, but that they are not invited to attend representative bodies. So, I'm speaking here now from practice, in my opinion as first children, my children, and so our young people in our local self-governments in our country never have to be afraid, we have to give them a chance to participate actively. They have the right to sin. Who has the right to sin more than young ones? They have real mistakes. How many mistakes do we make? And simply any debate, any attitude that the Councils of Youth do not need, that they need to be disabled, is not a good message and will not give good results. Conversely, this law definitely improves some things, gives a little more opportunities. For me personally, in principle nothing, for me personally and for the Council of the Young People of the Cross, actually reduces what we have done so far, so the Youth Council in my office works in a way that is invited to every college of mayors who is public because of the media, that they have been invited to every City Council and not only has the President of the Council been invited, but all members of the Youth Council have been invited. A good part of them responded, and it works well. What bothers me more, say, in this bill of law is the restriction of youth. What is this subject that young people are not interested in? Is young people interested in building a cycling trail or a environmental purifier or maybe building a new school or library or, I don't know, some other content, to develop a sport, to develop a culture? These are all topics that, I can't just figure out which topic is that young people aren't interested in, what is this topic that's not for young people? So I don't think we should limit it because then we come up with a natural possibility that, let's be realistic and such situations have statistics that are being presented here, which are mentioned talking about that it's not exactly everywhere and that it's of course big problems and that, of course, it opens up the possibility that young people are marginalized somewhere, that they're not being delivered again, that they're not being invited to represent or otherwise, but that in some ways they're just pro-forming and only in that part of the legal, if they're going to have to do something, then they're going to do it. What I can't agree with, and that's why I've given such an amendment, I can't agree that on young people we're practicing savings that are basically not savings, and here with my colleague, here I agree, absolutely. So, the representative bodies have or do not have some of their work fees and their councilors, of course and various working bodies, and they all have the right to receive some compensation if the decision has been made in local self-government, and we here by law prevent young people from taking part in the same thing. I'm really asking you to consider it, let's not send a message to the young, not good, discriminate. They don't go for, perhaps 150 kunas, somewhere in the fee log they'll get, they don't go for it, but in some ways it gives them meaning, gives them a symbolic demonstration that they're worth, that they're no less valuable than any other working body, and in the end of the city council council or council council council. They're also councilmen tomorrow and it's good to have young people in councils and congregations, it's good to have them everywhere, have to let them go, have to enable them, but we have to show them here that they can therefore participate, that they are equal in that part and even in this formal form. If there are cases that local self-government has no compensation for the work of its representative bodies so they won't even have a Youth Council there, they will be even, but it's not a good thing that local self-government, I don't know, has a few hundred kunas for a session, and that the young law practically doesn't get even 10 kunas, it's not right. And I'm really asking you to consider that and delete that item because it's simply not good to young people, discriminating it anyway. What I also suggest from young people is to add a new indent in this Article 13, to prepare and implement projects in cooperation with local, regional and national international youth organisations aimed at improving the position of young people. I agree with the explanation that was given here before, I know it's always good to have a partner, to have an association, something, but it can create certain problems because at some point they have to find a partner practically and then that partner as an association does something wrong and then practically falls the whole project. There are these cases, I've seen the same thing. So perhaps in some improvement, a little work should be done to enable, perhaps with the agreement of local self-government, of course, which should, if some financial resources are to be provided, be the signator of that part and provide the funds. So again, they are not left alone as a advice of young people to bring something self-initiative and to potentially generate a cost. But in this way we allow them to participate actively and work actively and there are the strongest ones in the short case. There are the strongest ones, they can provide and give the most, they feel normal and valuable and they are satisfied with themselves, and so I think that disabling these things is also not good, maybe a few examples were bad, and now those who have had good examples should suffer because of this, which is not the right thing to do, because those who may not have done it badly should have made it impossible to do something like this and sanction it but there will always be mistakes. But those who have done well to make it possible for them to actually make it harder for everyone to work in this way to keep the counsel of young people working. Here it is in a few words only about the advice of young people. I say these are the amendments they wrote, there are good examples there have been brought here, here are some of my fellow sheriffs who have done very well and simply perhaps on such good examples should be built and future changes and additions of laws that will contribute to improving the status of young people in our society and preparing young people to take on responsible roles tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73270	Thank you. We have two replicas. Sasha Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73271	Thank you, Vice President. You said that there are environments and there are examples from practices where young people are not invited but that they are limited access to city and municipal councils and, in general, the work of the city administration. I'd just like to fill you in on that part, so normally that forming advice and general council work depends mostly on the head of the local self-government unit, I think we all have to consciously say that. If he is interested in having counsel from young ones and doing so properly, he will be and will. If he's not interested, then he'll also obstruct his establishment and do everything he can to keep him from functioning. We have examples of various in Croatia, we have examples where leaders really understood young people as partners, where they work together, where they accept their proposals and initiatives, and we have these bad examples where they are disabled in their work. On youth issues, I have not seen here in the law anywhere that are very limited, and this you are right about all the topics that concern young people and spatial plans regarding youth and development strategies, it is all a question of young people because in fact the future depends on young people and the future is about young people, so there is no issue in society that is not about young people, so I think the advice will be able to discuss almost everything. About the fee we agree on and another short finding on the first one of yours at the beginning, I am glad that you as the president of a parliamentary party are the role model for the Youth SDP Forum of Croatia and that you follow our regulations and all this together and I really want you to be at the level of the SDP Forum for a decade and young HSS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73272	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73273	Thank you very much. There is, therefore, Article 13 here states that through their representatives they participate in the work of the representative body of the unit of local self-government, where decisions, measures, programmes and other acts are of particular importance for improving the position of young people. Yeah, but why is that supposed to be? Well, it can be all about that. Normally, there are bad examples, always going to be what we both figured out. And as for good examples, I'm always about to use every good example absolutely if possible. But this example of yours is not good, so I'm not going to use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73274	Thank you. Maria Lugaric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73275	Here's a little bit. I think it is very important to clarify and repeat that the councils of young people are not youth associations, I cannot do the jobs of youth associations, nor would it be good to do so. They are advisory bodies in decision-making processes. So the advice of young people cannot make a project about not knowing what the association would do, but it has the right to influence and it is his that the formal unit of local self-government here specifically or regionally makes a decision that reduces the need for the project itself. So their goal is to participate in decision-making. And a proposal for Amendment 2 you stated that projects should be implemented and as arguments you use Erasmus plus this new EU programme for youth education and activity 3. According to the proposition and Erasmus plus in key activities, 3 young people's advice cannot apply at all as project holders. According to Erasmus Plus, these can all be NGOs, the National Council of Youth and the public bodies of local authorities. So he can apply to the municipal council, the municipalities, the city but not the advice of young people. So your argument simply doesn't stand out of Erasmus plus proposition as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73276	Thank you, too. My colleague Hrg's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73277	So I told you in the introduction that these amendments were written by young people, so members of the youth council. And they tell me that it's precisely the problem that those as a public body can't, of course, come forward with the co-operation of local self-government. Well, okay. which is why we can enable them to be in some way, which is why they suggest it. And about the fact that young people's advice isn't youth associations, so I know it very well for you, be assured I really know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73278	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73279	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The existing law of 2007 did not specify the rights, obligations and purpose of the advice of young people, but their role in the life and work of the local community. There are a large number of missing or unspecified provisions that were in practice left to different and poor interpretations. It's an example of who the proposings are, and now it's settled. Candidates for members of youth councils and their alternate basis for a public call for candidates shall highlight associations that are targeted according to the Statute and according to activities dedicated to working with young people and young people. These are student councils, student choirs, undermining political parties, union or professional organisations in the Republic of Croatia and informal youth groups. There is insufficient clarity and lack of existing law. He said that only 260 units of local self-government of them 577 had advice from young people. I dare say that a large number of them have just established advice from young people, and it has not been brought to life as a basis for ensuring youth representation in the decision-making process concerning young people at the level of units of local and regional self-government. It is especially visible in municipalities where only 33% of municipalities have advice from young people. It is a good initiative by which several units of local self-government can set up a joint advice for young people, which will in the beginning surely solve the problem of youth momentum in certain local communities, as well as that candidates can propose informal groups of young people, as well as political developments which were not decided in the current law. In addition to members of the council, the newspaper is to elect their deputies, which is good for the activities of youth counsel. The new Proposal for a Law on Youth Councils better defines the concept, role and part-time work of Youth Councils, the procedure for setting up and the way of elections, as well as the clearer definition of authorised candidates for members and alternate members of youth councils. A clearer definition is the relationship between youth councils and units of local and regional self-government, the part-law, the duty and the possibility of influence on decision-making. In particular, the proposed law ensures that the advice of young people is adequate advisory bodies of units of local and regional self-government, with a view to consulting the representative body of units of local and regional self-government on issues of importance for young people, the delivery of calls for meetings of the municipal council and the minutes, mandatory meetings with the President of the Municipal Council and the Commissioner. It is good for the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth to monitor the implementation of this law. This gives meaning to the counsel of young people. But I'd say a little bit about the problems of young people who, all of us running local self-government units, and I believe all the representatives know that this is one of today's biggest problems, actually unemployment. When we look to the younger ones, we have 113,000 or 32.8% of young people under 29 years of age. I am also clearly concerned with statistics within that figure, which is that 2.1% of them are without primary school. When we say that, 2.8% of young people didn't finish primary school. Are there any more of these? 8.9% with primary school, 36.9% with high school three-year, 35% with high school four-year and high school, first grade college 7.6% with college, master's degree, PhD 9%. It turns out that those with secondary education are actually the most endangered in terms of unemployment. What I think, in any case, is that the problem of youth is, as far as unemployment itself is concerned, I have a positive example, and I think that the current policy gives me some hope for these young people, it's a policy of professional training. In 2013 we have a trend of 100.1% is growth compared to the year of professional youth training, which is a clear continuation of the trend in 2012 when 82% of such employment was compared to 2011. Clearly, this is important because young people without work experience thus obtain the first condition of their competitiveness as well as the fact that 61% of all those who were in vocational training have found employment within a year. Another worrying piece of information I've tried to take out of the interior ministry's pages, which is clearly the same with young, young and 18 years old, it's a crime. These are the crimes of minors and children in 2013 participating in total crime with 3%. 3% may not be much, but when we say that it is 550 crimes of children and young people up to 18 years old which we can say for 2013 is a good trend compared to 2012 when there were 949 crimes or 4.5%. We don't have any data on how much the percentage of young people participated up to 29 years, but unfortunately I think it's one very, very big data. It's just a little problem facing young people in our places. In order to change this, they should be actively involved in the work of local self-government units. This is clearly not possible without a financial position, and I would now mention this Article 22 where units of local or regional self-government provide financial resources for the work and work programme of youth councils referred to in Article 19(1) of this Act and paragraph 3 of this Article, as well as a space for holding meetings of youth councils in accordance with this law and a decision on the establishment of advice of young people. Youth council members do not have the right to compensation for their work. There was controversy whether they should be paid or not, as well as many who work in committees and councils, but I think there are clear reasons for both for and against. I think we should try to instill in the young people a sense of voluntary work, to do good to the social community, which, unfortunately, we have less and less voluntary work. But it should be stimulated, I think that young people should be stimulated above all to be granted financial support for their activities. One of the parts of this law is that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional funding from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, as well as from the budget of the unit of local and regional self-government. Namely, the proposed law does not impose additional obligations on the local self-government unit, clear that all the local self-government leaders are pleased, but without the funds there are no good actions, without money there is no help for young people. There is one more thing that young people could specifically have a greater influence on politics if we can actually call it politics and choose young people in city and municipal councils. We know that today most people in municipal, city councils are middle-aged and older. Unfortunately, young people have fewer and fewer places. Whether the Law on Local Self-Government should define a quota which the percentage of young people would participate in lists, but not only on lists, but also chosen specifically. I think it is much easier and more effective to prevent young people from acting on such advice than to work later on solving the consequences of all the unwanted that is happening in society than vandalism, alcohol, drugs, in general crime in which young people, unfortunately, participate in a great deal. And finally, I think that young people must have a greater influence on politics in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73280	Thank you, too. We have two replicas, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73281	Thank you very much. You told your colleague that young people should be stimulated for voluntary work. Well, I should, but not just young people. You need to stimulate everyone for voluntary work. We should probably give the young ones an example of how they will volunteer. But this isn't about any stimulation for voluntary work, or paying for their work on advice. This is about, therefore, being pure about one respect for young people, respecting their engagement, their activities. And I repeat, any local self-government and you know it as well can make any decision on compensation for your councilors and working bodies. Only the advice of young people by law that defines their work and activity will make it impossible. So let local self - administrations decide in cooperation with the Councils of Youth whether they will be recognized in this way or not. That's the whole point of the story.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73282	Thank you. Answer, colleague Prelec, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73283	So here I can agree with you that maybe we should leave that to local self-government units, because we know that we have local self-government units that have small budgets, there are also those that have large ones. But what we're going to get to that is a question. I think what I said in the statement that young people need to learn that volunteer work, especially at the beginning of their activities is good. They should be well stimulated, but not money to give them 100, 200, or 300 kuna to work on in this Youth Council, but to give them the means by which they will be able to dispose of their actions. Whether it will be a prevention in the fight against drugs, alcohol, whether it will be to provide them with some kind of space that they will arrange or any action that will be linked to the local self-government unit. I think that's how we need to stimulate them, and the less we learn that here at the very beginning everything they do to get paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73284	Thank you. Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73285	My friend Prelec, I don't want to talk about fees. My attitude is famous. But you mentioned that unfortunately most of the city and municipal council members across Croatia are growing older and older people. How where, as I must mention, there is almost no middle, no city, no municipality, no county in which there are no members of city and municipal councils younger than 30 and not just from the SDP so that they do not understand each other, but from all parties. We've got some young people, even leaders. And as for the quotas on the legal lists, that's the same thing, it's a good suggestion maybe to think about. Because, unfortunately, some people obviously need to be forced to put on young people, and perhaps that would be some sort of incentive. But I think it's primarily political party responsibility. So, we in the SDP, you know that colleague as well as well as in 2004 in our Statutes, have prescribed a quota that on all lists, on all party bodies there must be at least 20% younger than 30 years, and this has resulted in the fact that we in Croatia today have a series of city and municipal council members, as I just said. We've got a few agents. Today's two ministers in the government came from the Youth Forum. Here is counterpart Lugaric, who has been in Parliament for 12 years, so in 2000 she was from the forum of young parliamentary deputies. We have now remembered even a member of the European Parliament from the SDP, which is under 30 years old, because there are no parties in Croatia. And that might be the result of the 2004 quota regulation. But I think political parties must have the responsibility to recognise the role of young people and to represent them as much as possible. And then when it becomes that competition, then maybe others would be forced to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73286	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73287	Just to respond to these quotas, but not to be left on the list, we'll put quotas on those lists, and our young 15th, sixteenth, 17th, or at the bottom of the list, never enter the municipal and city councils. So if we're already making quotas, then we should define exactly how many of them we need to get into the council. We know that today we have lists in which many, many are at the bottom and have no use at all. But only one thing so it doesn't turn out that my municipality, the Brdovec municipality, doesn't have any young people. Of course we have young people. We have one in the line of the SDP and one in the HDZ and I think it's a positive example and very well, they're working well on the Council of Youth and the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73288	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73289	Final proposal of the Law on Youth Tips, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 457. The debate on the text of the law is closed. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set for the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure the motion to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 101 votes, we have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the Government representative to explain the amendment. Dear Maya Sporish, Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. This amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia came as a result of a debate held in the Croatian Parliament on the Final Proposal for a Law on Youth Councils and Amendments of the HDSSB Club of Representatives. According to the information available in the Republic of Croatia, several units of local, regional (regional) self-government are under way in the process of selecting members of youth councils and this amendment avoids repeating the initial election process.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73291	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia by raising our hands. Who's in? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 99 votes, the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been accepted. I'm closing the debate. And there's more amendments, great, bravo. We're going to the amendments to respected MPs and MPs. The amendment of the respected representative Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73292	The amendment is not accepted. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is now under the obligation to submit a report on the implementation of the law at the Assembly's first reading session. Since a discussion on the report can always be opened at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Committee, there is no need for the inclusion of a provision requiring the discussion of the report at the plenary session.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73293	Thank you very much. Amendment holder, respected representative Marijan Skuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73294	I accept the explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73295	Thank you very much. We're going to the amendment of Honored Representative Branko Hrg, Amendment 1. There's more.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73296	It's unacceptable. The purpose of the existence of advice from young people is to take part in the work of the representative body in making decisions, measures, programmes and other acts of importance for young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73297	Thank you very much. Amendment holder, respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, ma'am. I don't know, the meaning of the existence of youth advice in this way is limiting as you have explained. So if we want advice from young people, if we want to have young people involved in the activities of local self-government, then they should be able to participate and have insight into all materials. Why should we limit and put them aside to just determine which points young people will be concerned about. So I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73299	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement on Amendment number one of the respected representatives of Branko Hrg which the government does not accept. Who's in? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number two of the same MP-respected deputies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73300	It's unacceptable. The advice of young people according to the final draft of the law has an exclusive advisory role not to be mixed with the preparation and implementation of projects, i.e. project activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73301	Amendment holder, respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73302	I accept the argument, I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73303	Are you asking for a vote? No, I don't. Amendment 2 has been withdrawn. Amendment number 3 of the respected representative Branko Hrg as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73304	It's unacceptable. The position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that there is no need to receive cash compensation for work in the Council, but only to cover the costs of transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73305	Dear Representative Branko Hrg, the applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73306	Well, it's not a good message for young people, it's not a good message to local self-government units. ... /The noise in the hall./... Well, just laugh. If we are already giving them the opportunity to participate in the work, to be actively involved, I see no reason why only the advice of young people should be forbidden to receive any compensation and why we should only need them. to order them in local self-government so they can't pay any compensation. The local self-government should decide whether young people will valorize and evaluate as well as their members of various bodies or not. This isn't right, it's not right for young people, I think discrimination is for young people. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73307	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement on Amendment number three of the respected representative, Branko Hrg, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the required majority by grading. Amendment number four of the respected representative Branko Hrg as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73308	It's unacceptable. The proposing shall consider the proposed transport cost-refunding formula appropriate. This formulation also prevents the possible payment of baseless costs to members of youth councils.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73309	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73310	I don't know why there's always some constant doubt about something in this debate session when local self-government is up to it. And the explanation is practically the same as for the previous amendment, so it's not correct, it's not fair to young people to treat them this way. They are the only group that is forbidden by law to be able to obtain any compensation. It's not correct, I don't think it's really a good message for young people and it's depressing. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73311	I would like to make a statement on Amendment number four of the respected representative of Branko Hrg, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to the amendment of the respected representative of Kresimir Bubal. Dear Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73312	It is not accepted since the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia fully consummated the meaning of the amendment of the Club is a representative of the HDSSB.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73313	In the name of the applicant for the amendment... he's gone, we have to decide. Who is for the amendment of the respected representative Kresimir Bubal, whom the government does not accept? Who's in? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 98 votes for and 3 votes against, passed the Youth Council Act, in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73314	We continue with - Proposal for a law on a unique body of art, first reading, P.Z. No. 557. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You've received reports. We have the Deputy Minister with us at the opening. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73315	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Protection of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia is ensured in different ways and in different ways, depending on the system in which that protection is achieved. Therefore, the idea of a single body of art for all persons with disabilities has been public for several years. The fragmentation of the system of art, different criteria and excessive administration are facts that make it difficult to access the rights of children with developmental difficulties and people with disabilities. However, there has always been a near-achieving, but never before has there been a clear political will or the strength to revive the valuable project. With this law, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth shows a strong will to arrange this complicated and for citizens of systematic art. Most of all, hard to access. We listened to the wishes and needs of civil society organisations that collect people with disabilities and who eagerly await this law. We also had full cooperation from several ministries, especially I would point out the Ministry of Labour and Pension System because this is a complex job and the rights of persons with disabilities are not exclusively in the management of social care systems. The fact is that individual rights which allow the provision of independence of persons with disabilities and their social and labour integration, the compensation of adverse situations and the removal of difficulties in participating in the creation and implementation of social policy are established by the basis of a number of regulations governing certain areas of social life. The idea of forming a single body of art is primarily based on the need to determine the physical, intellectual, sensory and mental impairment of health, disability, functional ability, working and remaining working ability of a person by one institution or institution in a two-stage procedure through uniformly established methodologies and on a unique pattern of findings and opinions which avoid the dissonance of previous skills through the witches of each of the individual systems. In accordance with the proposed law, the single body of art would act as a founding unit of the Institute for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities that would function at the level of the Republic of Croatia with exposures at the regional, regional or local level. Namely, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities provides for the establishment of the Institute of Skills, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the following tasks: skills in the first and second stages of procedures for the exercise of rights in the field of social care, pension insurance, maternity and parental support, education, professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, protection of war and civilian war victims and other areas in which certain rights are exercised on the basis of skills, i.e. on the basis of the findings and opinions of the body of art as well as other works related to the skills of a specific regulation. The proposed law responds to the need to establish a system of skills with professionals who are employed in the system for full-time work. In addition to their basic education, the experts will have a unique education on the principles and methodology of art as opposed to the current state according to which, except at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, training methodologies are left to members of committees who are professional in their fields but are not educated in the art process. According to the current state, more than 900 part-time experts are used in the social care system alone, which largely raises the quality and uniformity of findings and opinions. It is also noted that in the new system, the applicant at the heart of all the associated institutions is eliminating the person's walk from the institution to the institution in search of his rights. The rights in different systems are also harmonised and informationally linked and co-ordinated by the work of institutions, costs are rationalised and the efficiency of the system is increased in such a way that the associated institutions allow the exercise of rights in each of the systems based on a single finding and the opinion of one institution of the unique body of art. The proposed law is the result of the need to develop uniform criteria for the identification of disability. The process of production began several years ago and, in the opinion of an interdisciplinary team composed of representatives of the Ministry in which the bodies of art act, experts of persons with disabilities, doctors and experts of different areas of disability should take into account the type of damage that led to the disability and the assessment of the functionality of the person and the determination of the level of necessary support. This follows the World Health Organization's recommendations on the need to create a social medical model of disability, which is also an attempt to valorise the definition of disability under the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which is a Croatian signatories. The methodology Regulation to be adopted under this law will contain a single list of damages. Those physical, intellectual, sensory and mental expressed in percentages, as well as the list of functional abilities with parameters adapted to systems in which certain rights for the achievement of which are used are found and the opinion of the unique body of art. The regulation will also determine who is a person with disabilities so that the opinions of the unique body of art will also answer that question. The analysis of the existing state of play with regard to the spending of financial resources has shown that in the relevant systems on the skills of part-time and employee warlocks, nearly 43.5 million kunas per year are spent on about 140 thousand art subjects while an estimated 38 million kuna per year would be spent on the establishment of a single body of artificial arts costs. It is not a significant reduction, but the basic objective of this law is not to rationalise funds but rather to make the system easier and more accessible to citizens who need skills. By adopting this law, all persons with disabilities will in one place carry out an art-making process according to a unique methodology and rights will comply with the rules in the pension insurance system, social care, education, professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, the protection of war and civilian victims of war and other areas in which they exercise certain rights based on the findings and opinions of the body of art. In fact, the idea is that experts who are now in certain systems are employed in the work of art are taken over and worked in the body that is designed for the work of art for all systems, i.e. to be employees of the Institute. This body would take over existing experts who would have contracted work with a new institution and it would also be possible to hire additional experts and funds that have been paid so far by external associates, for example many of them, in the social care system. The findings of this body's opinion would be valid in all systems and would allow citizens to have a simple and equal access to rights through a uniform methodology of art, but also to reduce bureaucratic obstacles that we all aim at, so I call on you to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73316	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73317	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Madam Deputy Minister, you said that this proposal came out of need and that those measures were still defined in 2007, so that they should be implemented by 2015. The professional work of the committee appointed by the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth has clearly defined that such unique lists cannot produce results. I am saying this because the Croatian defenders were also included and perhaps in the civil sector what stems from the Ministry of Pension, Health, School, Sports, etc., it might be possible in this respect but in this respect the single list that should be used by the body is impossible. That is what the Ministry of Defence experts said as well as the witches appointed by the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth that 61% are impossible to establish the procedure and apply the single body as a unique list of skills. In addition, 12% of those who can only be partially determined by this. So I think it's too sudden to pass a law that doesn't define all of this, but will be regulated by government regulations. With this I would like to say that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defendants, which is defined by the body of art in the first degree as well as in the second degree.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73318	Thank you for your response. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73319	Thank you very much. Let me correct you. I didn't say since 2007, there's been an emergency for this change. I will repeat myself at any time, but there has never been a clear political will or the strength to bring this valuable project back to life. On the other hand, if we talk about the defense system as far as I know, the training of the defenders according to the information provided by the competent ministry is mostly a process completed, there will be little left as some control states have said, possibly some deteriorations, but the complete system of defense-assuming systems has been completed and not recently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73320	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of SDP representative Romana Jerkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73321	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support the bill. We believe that, of course, it is not a problem to agree with the proposal's intention to change existing practice in the Republic of Croatia from the foundation when it comes to the exercise of certain rights of the same name in different systems. Indeed, practice shows that in different systems, health damage has been determined in different ways, and thus the rights resulting from this. So, in addition to the fact that the existing practice should nevertheless be acknowledged, it was largely irrational, not logical, too long, bureaucratic, overpriced. She was, in our conviction, unjust. In other words, the idea of identifying a single body of art is extremely good because it is being hunted against the bad side of the existing system of exercise of rights and there have been and have been. We believe and hope that this law can do so effectively. If we are talking about the essence of the law and the effects this law could produce for users, it could indeed be how someone in the public debate said a small law because it really has a small number of articles, a small law but for major changes, I say it could be. Of course, it is a prerequisite to create all assumptions about this, therefore both organisational and humane, all that is necessary for the quality implementation of the law and full implementation of the law. We want to believe that we are ready and able to achieve all these necessary assumptions, therefore the more the law enters into force on January 1, 2015, and we believe that this is enough time for all the previous and necessary pre-editations to be done. Of course, yes, we believe that this law is possible to achieve two key things. Although the deputy minister did not purposely refer to it as the primary, as the most important thing and we agree with it, so rationality is not the most important law, but we do believe that the proposal for this law will also achieve two essential things. First let the system be rational and second to be just. Of course, I am stressing once again for both of us next to good intentions it is also necessary in the law of definitions to be clear, to be precise, to make the procedure unequivocal and to sort of be logically structured. Why do we feel that this law should make the system more rational? Well, as we have already heard, there are six bodies in the Republic of Croatia today in the field of skills and social care, pension insurance, education, the system of professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, rights based on maternity and parental support and finally, protection of war and civilian victims of war. So 6 bodies of art that use different legal regulations, which is not logical either. It's logical to assume that the administrative procedure will be reduced, so instead of 6:1, it seems logical to assume what I just said. The current practice implies that persons with disabilities must go into two or more systems in order to exercise two or more rights, in other words persons have had to go over the system again in order to exercise their rights. It is an extremely good idea that we absolutely support what will be possible on the basis of a single document to exercise rights in different systems. If we add to this the fact that so far, the art of art at the annual level, we've heard how much money it was necessary to single out and how much in this system today a person is working on and on an act contract, then I think it's okay to realize that this bill will achieve both savings, or rationalization of the system. Why do we think that the proposed way of crafting the system makes the system more just? Because in the existing system, unequal skills of disability have been observed infrequently, so for the same physical damage it was possible to exercise a certain right in one city, and in another city, e.g. No, no, no. In Split one level of law, in Varazdin another level of law. Therefore, there is no doubt that it was necessary to evenly approach and end irregularities in determining the degree of disability, for example. could lead to, or favour retirement despite, e.g. potential work capacity. We think that this could have resulted from the problem that I have, that is, the action I have just cited. So that was from the principle level, and now let me make a few concrete remarks about the specific articles of this law very briefly. Like that. in Article 6, paragraph 2 of the proposal a little vaguely and unspecifiedly sounds like a formulation of "the other areas which exercise certain rights on the basis of findings and opinions of the body of art". Therefore, so far, many health insurance rights not covered by this proposal are acquired by the art of HZZO medical committees. Therefore, if the wish could be foreseen by the health insurance activity. This indeterminate formulation of the concepts which I have just read in the article, so other areas where certain rights are exercised, etc. Some new, perhaps unknown areas that may be opened during the life of the proposed law are assumed, and on the other hand, the activity I mentioned persists and clearly falls within the order of related activities referred to in Article 6. ...proposal. Therefore, on behalf of the SDP club, we would nevertheless insist on a more precise, or more complete definition of at least the current known activities that rights are exercised on the basis of skills, even if they are explicitly omitted by some of them which are not wanted in this context. The second concrete proposal concerns Article 8 of the proposal. In this respect, Article 8 provides for the adoption of a regulation, as we have heard from the Deputy Minister, of the Government's Regulation on the methodologies set out in Article 7 of the proposal. We have somehow put that, therefore, in this way the possibility of implementing the proposed law is put in the context of possible prolonging the application of the law. However, we do not believe that this is possible, we would still like to appeal that at least at the principle level, Article 7 of the Methodology to determine the impairment of the disability of the functional capacity of the level of support for the working and remaining working capacity of the person is laid down. We think it would be good to discuss them in the Croatian Parliament. So we conclude that the idea of establishing a single body of art is generally very good, the application certainly requires great effort. The proposed start of the artisan body on 1 January 2015 we hold that it is reasonable, we hold that it is possible, provided that, as I said at the very beginning, everything that is necessary for the timely implementation of the law is done. We therefore call once again on the applicant or ministry to offer at least the principles of the methodology referred to in Article 7 in the second reading. The SDP club will definitely support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73322	Thank you. Replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73323	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Romanians, it's clear that this law provides for what will be done. This law is designed to be part of reform measures to reduce deficits, I do not know which years, given that it is beginning to apply in 2015. It's written in the bill. And this second thing that you were talking about, I would agree with you that there is uncertainty and that the rules of the government cannot be made by the rules, given that the expert committees that have been working since the time Croatia adopted the national strategy and when it adopted the Convention that it is clearly stated by the Ministry of Defence and by the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth have reached the conclusion that a unique list of skills that would work for this single body cannot come to the final results. And that's why the government has no way and methodology to apply and put into this law, and it should be in law. it should not be regulated by regulations. I would agree to make the target sector a truly unique body with unique lists or criteria, but the defence laws ex-legis and devast it with such a unique body as well as the rights of Croatian defenders are absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73324	The answer to the replica of Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73325	Thank you very much. My colleague Djakic, I think the intensity of this law is really great. I think it's good, that the law wants to level the system of art, that it has the intensity to cut administrative costs. I believe that if the law is brought into practice in the way it has the intensity it will lead to a fairer system. Savings will be made no dilemma. When that's gonna happen at this point isn't the most important thing. As for the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, I do not see how their changes will be changed and how Croatian defenders will be damaged. I think you're raising a storm about nothing because no Croatian defenders' right to this law is going to change. So they will even have some rights that other citizens will not have. They will, for example. They will be able to make a request, for example, except at the social center. The only one of all citizens in the Republic of Croatia and the state administration. So I absolutely disagree with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73326	Tink Milas, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73327	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mrs. Jerkovic, your exposure is really the way you said everything justifies what the text of the bill says. But what you're essentially saying is that this law seeks a fairer and more rational system. In other words, the system we have currently in force is unfair or irrational. How one system that will put everything in the same corridor, so that won't even take care of the cause and the consequences that have arisen, I don't know what the cause, about which it depends on the circumstances of life, the circumstances of the moment, in which all of this can stand under one denominator and all of it being observed I don't know unequivocalally, one-way, simply it's a brush and an apple, it just can't go together. Furthermore, the deputy lady said the rights of the defender, or defenders, are also on the way down in terms of art. So if that is the case, if this system has been going on for 20 years and this population is more or less finished with the art of art, is it going to be some kind of control, is it going to be a control call or not, or is there still someone who's in the system who hasn't solved his status, so why doesn't it stay that way? Which is why this system that has proved to be good, and we are talking about special circumstances, we are talking about sufferings that have a particular cause and consequences that cannot be the same as in other categories that have lived in different conditions, etc. Why don't we just leave it that way and just try to rationalize the system that's up to a maximum and leave these people to continue to resolve their rights according to the system that's so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73328	The answer to the replica of Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73329	Dear colleagues, let's separate two topics, one is the defenders of the other is the justice of the system. When I was talking about the justice of the system, I was talking about that the single body of art will have one of the key goals of equating the criteria. So the criteria...... Wait, I'm not talking about lawyers here right now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I am talking about the population of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so now they will have all the uniform criteria, regardless of whether the art is done in Zagreb, Split, Varazdin or Dubrovnik. I think it's extremely important for the citizens. Speaking of defenders, I can only repeat what I already said to my colleague Djakic and what the deputy minister said. So in 2005 you decided that there are no more new requirements, so in the system can only be existing defenders with that status that can only apply for a deterioration, I don't know what makes you funny. I'm trying to explain my position, I wasn't laughing when you were talking. It is therefore that the requirements to be applied will be related only to the deterioration of physical damage or certain illnesses. So...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73330	My colleagues, please be nice. First is reading, everyone has the right to say. ... No matter what the final suggestion, the first reading is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] First is reading, replicating your colleague, then listening to her answer you. Tomislav Ivić, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73331	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Jerkovic, no one hesitates that the intentions of this law are good. After all, the deputy minister said the subject has been discussed for years. I also remember in the former government meeting there was a discussion about the unique body of art and then I was against it and now I am against it and I will say in the debate why I am against the unique body of art, especially when it comes to Croatian defenders. And those arguments that Djakic made are fine, it is not true that there will be no new demands, there will be them and they will go according to the same procedure as you say demands for a new determination due to the deterioration of health, etc. It must go through the same procedure as when it comes to determining the percentage of disability because the percentage of disability is again determined. When you're talking about rationalization and savings, can you tell me what analysis we're talking about in the first place? Well, I haven't seen how many kunas, or euros, or I don't know which currencies will be saved by this law. It's a rule that we get laws in this House without any analysis, and this is the case that we don't have in the law that has all three sets of pages not one word of analysis, or no analysis at all. Does it mean that it will be a fairer approach if this law is applied? Not colleagues, so there should be a unique methodology for assessing the percentage of disability, and then there will be the Commission's findings in Split, Osijek, Rijeka and Zagreb. It's the key to everything. And you need to know that determining the percentage of disability is one process and procedure, and the other is an assessment of work ability. It has nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73332	Replication response, Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73333	You say there will be new demands, so what if there are, so let them be. Why do you doubt people who will knowingly do their job, so why do you doubt that these people who will be trained, who are experts, will not work according to the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia? So what makes you think that? Well, I wouldn't think of that. Secondly, as far as righteousness is concerned, it is enough to introduce a unique methodology. Well, isn't that exactly what this law is about? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73334	My colleague, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73335	So I haven't read the law, and you are who you think this is the final bill and you don't know it's the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73336	Hope Murganic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73337	Respected vice presidents, deputy ministers and associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Jerkovic, I'll only be a short two or three moments in your presentation replicating myself. You mentioned that somewhere in the media it said that this is a small law that expects miracles, and I, when I read it, really expected that this law would respond a lot and achieve all the good wishes and intentions that have been said here on several occasions. However, this law is only 12 articles of which some of the things we're talking about are mentioned in all three or four articles and I would really like to order from this speaker to our ministry, we can and must do better because this topic simply requires it. This part of your replica that we can't doubt future experts, I'll really agree with that 100%. But I also find it very difficult to hear, especially when it comes to social care lately, that suspicions of all those who professionally, dedicatedly and well have been working for years in the welfare system and if there have been any irregularities and if there have been any senses of malpractice irregularities believe me, and when this unique body is always going to exist. Each expert has the right to a discretionary assessment and each expert sees differently, and each person copes with the same disease and with the same disability. I may not suspect this, nor do we question the honest, honest work of future experts, but we should not characterise one activity on the basis of some negative examples.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73338	Replication response, Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73339	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I've experienced attacks on your part, but it seems to me that on behalf of the club, I've spoken very correctly about the law and I've fenced myself on several occasions, and I've said that the law's intensity is good, that the law's intention is good, but that there is a need to make a number of advances for quality, general possible law enforcement. I even invited the Ministry to consider, on behalf of the club, that some of the things that the regulation provides not to be made in such a way but rather, that at least the principles of the methodology be obtained until the second reading here so that we could get to know each other in quality and discuss it, make constructive proposals and ask for any changes. So I didn't blindly defend this law that has 14, 15 articles. After all, they can be so honest and say that this part that is referred to the single body of art can be freely an integral part of a law that we recently discussed, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities but is not the essence. The important thing is that the law is well written. If we have already decided to separate that part into a separate whole as a special law, it is important that the law be clearly written, well structured and that there are procedures that are clear and unequivocal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73340	Deputy Minister Maya Sporish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73341	Thank you very much. Here's where the analysis question was mentioned again. I would be free to give you an analysis of the existing state and what it all looks like, so what are the ratios of the number of specialists doctors, how much money is spent in this respect at the annual level and how many items are processed annually. So, the pension system employs 47 medical specialists, 16 social workers, 2 defecologists, 2 psychologists and 45 administrators, and experts are about 100,000 items a year where wages are spent around 14 million kuna plus around 8 million kuna for insurance costs. It means paying their travel expenses and some additional checks. Total means about 22 million kuna. For the welfare system that you seem to be reading to me there's not much longer in the media, I won't say which city it's about, but in any case, one body of art where the responsible person whose wife was absolutely ophthalmologist anyone who had both the difficulties of lower limbs and fists, and everything, she sent to an ophthalmologist. So there are irregularities, they're nasty, and if something is centralized, I believe that control in this respect will also be easier that way. So, the welfare system hired about 900 part-time professionals, employed 6 administrative workers in the centres of Zagreb three, in Rijeka two, and one in the ministry. Some 25,000 items a year and about 14 million kunas are spent on fees at the annual level. The defense system. There are no employees of witches, so they don't have people on the payroll. 61 part-time medical expert, employed by one administrator at the Department of Defence. There are administrators in county offices that are not intended. About 6,000 items a year and about 3 million kunas are spent on fees. It's a new one now, so when these status skills are over more or less. The health care system. Medical doctors are employed, but all other experts for all the overall needs of HZZO, and the unique body of art is only the part relating to maternity and parental support. The administrators aren't intended either. There are about 9,000 cases of warlocks a year. The cost of paying an estimate of about 4 million a year, and bearing the HZZO in the mass of everyone else's salaries. Also a system of education. There are no employees of warlocks, no warlocks, 16 associates have been hired. The administrators in the county offices are not identical. Experts, i.e. demand an opinion and opinion on only a small number of cases where medical records are insufficient and less than 20,000 kunas are spent on fees at the annual level. In all, it is now spent on the artisan of 43 million kunas annually for 140,000 art. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73342	Thank you. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73343	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's Madam Deputy Minister, so you've told us very well the data of this, and I would really agree with you if you'd suggested in this law that all five categories that have been skilled by special witches be for a single body, with a single list, etc. But the defence population I would, given that it is not even a terrible money, nor a terrible lot of cases should really be left in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, harmonize the list of damages, compare it with the international list and continue to work under the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders. It would be nice to try to resolve the next bill so that really Croatian defenders would not be even with civilians who were injured, for example, in a drunk traffic accident, and yet the enemy soldiers were appalled.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73344	Replication response, Maya Sporish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73345	Thank you very much for agreeing with me that this body is really necessary and that we have actually managed to agree on the actually shocking data that I have read from this analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73346	Tomislav Ivić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73347	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. Where could we read this data that you've now provided? Is that an analyst? How much will there be savings with a unique body of art? We still don't know that. You have now provided data on how many people are employed in different systems and that is ok, I am not against the unique body of art for civilians, but I am against that unique body of artisan and Croatian defenders. Just for these reasons you said. Up until now, about three million kunas are spent annually on Croatian defenders. In time, it will be spent even less. There is no doctor employed in a permanent working relationship but are paid by effect, according to the number of processed cases, according to the number of Croatian defenders processed. So that's true and that's why I'm among other things against having a single body of art as an expert of Croatian defenders because you won't make any savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73348	Replication response, Deputy Maya Sporish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73349	Thank you very much. I'll do it again as far as the savings are concerned. Saving as a savings means what I've just said in my opening part, and it's not that important. It's important for people to become available art. If you have listened in this introductory section to stop walking from institution to institution. So, if the system of artisaning of part-time and employee warlocks is now being spent annually, nearly 43.5 million kunas per year, as I said about 140 thousand artisans, it is estimated that the creation of a single body of art will consume about 38 million kunas. Five million kunas believe me today every lip matters. But the basic objective, as I said, is not to rationalise funds but to make it easier and more accessible for citizens in need of skill. And as for the employees, we've had fees so far, yes. Most of the time, we all had part-time fees that we paid for in effect, so there was this case that all of a sudden in one town and one county needed an ophthalmologist even though they had problems with their feet only. But never mind, we're not going to talk about it right now. As far as employees are concerned, I think it's high time to employ permanent people in this system, people who are on the payroll. We are aware that, with one such approach and one such law, we have failed in some small particular private interests of some people who have trained for many years but the system is not tailored according to the wishes of some of the current witches, it is tailored to the benefit of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73350	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73351	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, respected deputy ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about the proposal of the Law on the Single Body of Art, we need to define ourselves a little bit and look back at what the assessment of the situation is now. First of all, protection of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia is ensured differently depending on the system in which that protection is achieved. Some rights are exercised through a set of rules and regulations. And then it is really necessary to even the rights of the same name and to change existing practice that in different systems, health damage is determined in different ways. In the Republic of Croatia, there are currently 6 bodies of art and that experts in order to exercise rights in the field of social care, pension insurance, education, professional rehabilitation, employment of persons with disabilities, the right to basic maternity and parental support and the protection of war and civilian victims of war, and when determining disability, use different legal regulations in their work. The establishment of a single body of art is based on the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and on the National Strategy for Equalisation of Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities from 2007 to 2015, which establishes the obligation for competent authorities to develop a basis for improving the rights from the basis of disability and to propose the adoption of appropriate regulations. It also provides for a measure to identify a single body of art. The job of artmaking has so far been done within 6 ministries, more than 1,000 witches were hired to contract the work and more than 40 million kunas were spent annually. The basic issues that we want to regulate under the proposed law, first of all, we want the proposed law to regulate the single body of art as the establishment unit of the Institute for Professional Rehabilitation of Arts and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and to have the activity and jobs of the body of art. Local jurisdiction, the definition of skills and the process of exercise of rights, the experts who conduct the art processes are established and we want to regulate other issues governing the work of the single body of art. The unique body of art has been established by the Office for the Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The activity and competence of the Institute is defined by a special regulation establishing professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and covering the following activities: skills in the first and second stages of procedures to determine the rights in the field of social care, pension insurance, education, professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and maternity and parental support, protection of war and civilian victims of war and other areas which exercise certain rights based on the findings and opinions of the body of art. It also includes the activities of making proposals and expert opinions related to the implementation of skills and monitoring, organisation and improvement of skills activities with implementation and also education from the same areas of skills. And, of course, other jobs related to just art. The training in the first-degree procedure shall be carried out in the regional establishment units of the institution in the place responsible for the residence of a qualified person and in the second-degree procedure in the Central Office. The unique body of art will be located in the Rehabilitation Fund under the supervision of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. The bodies of the art provide an opinion and opinion on the prescribed form, keeping records and documentation relating to... by training, working with the authorities of the State Administration for the needs of the Register of Persons with Disabilities and by providing a review of the findings and opinions of the Croatian Institute of Public Health and, once a year, submits a report on its work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the context of this law, the process of determining the physical, intellectual, sensory and mental impairment of disability and the functional ability, the level of support and the working and remaining work capacity of the person is artificial. It shall be implemented for the purpose of the exercise of rights in the field of social care, pension insurance, education, professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, rights based on maternity and parental support, protection of war and civilian victims of war and other areas in which certain rights are exercised on the basis of findings and opinions of the body of art. They shall also be implemented at the request of the competent authority which decides on the rights of those areas. The skills are performed by doctors of medicine, doctors of dental medicine, social workers, psychologists, experts, educational rehabilitation profile and other professionals as needed. Generally and in conclusion, when we do analyse and see the need to adopt such a unique body of art, then we can define the following proposals, or the basics, which is that they will try to end the smudge when determining the degree of disability that they are suitable for and suitable for retirement in spite of possible working ability. We also have one of the weapons against those who are trying to catch in cloudy and false documentation or corruption trying to get a disability pension and we have a lot of examples. The possibility of subjective assessment of the experts on the degree of disability and administrative procedures will be reduced, in any case we will get a much more rational system in which all the skills would be performed in one place and will lead to a more just system in which the same health problems will be obtained by the same disability system. This law should contribute to the reduction of the total exclusion of disabled persons from the world of work by enabling them to seek employment on the basis of the rest of the work or functional capacity mentioned above. In contrast to other EU countries in its system, Croatia has not yet regulated the so-called the rest of the work capacity and the assessment of the disputed work will be necessary. We also want to do a fairer system of art because at this point, for the same physical damage, one right can be obtained in one city and not in another. In addition, all costs will be educated, given that so many experts will no longer be required because the number of commissions will be reduced and the Commission's opinion received by the user will be available through all systems in the exercise of its rights. To talk about an example of practices such as before, persons who, due to sickness or disability, wanted to exercise the right to retire had to go to the pension system commission. If she wanted to receive an allowance for assistance and care, she had to go to the first-degree body of expertise in the welfare system and if she was also a defender, she also had to go to the Commission at the Ministry of Defence. Now if we see what needs to be done then we can really doubt whether in all these activities there could have been one fairness and by this law we want to avoid it in any case. After all, what they would like to point out is that this is a commendable initiative and indeed good news for many citizens who will or will use such services. And what I would like to point out with the right, although this law has 12 articles, we can call it a small law on major changes and the HNS Club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73352	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73353	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So the HDZ Club will not support this bill because, according to the proponent, each user had to be re-skilled every time in order to exercise their rights in each individual system, which, apart from the extra unnecessary costs, created an additional unnecessary obligation for the user himself. This law allows the user to exercise certain rights in different systems on the basis of one document, i.e. findings or opinions of a single authority of art. By establishing a single body of art, the art would be conducted in one place, which would result in a reduction in administrative procedure and significantly facilitate the person to be trained in the way to the exercise of certain rights. The need for the establishment of a single body of skills is justified by the Proposer’s justification for the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the National Strategy for Equalisation of Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities in the field of Social Care and Pension Insurance as one of the measures for the implementation of the objectives of the action shall specify the establishment of a single body of skills and the time limit for the implementation of that measure, December 2007. - 2015. Furthermore, the Proposer also calls for the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which is established by the Office for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, and prescribes the jobs of the Institute, including the tax-related activities of the body of art. The opening argument is to conclude that the proposer's intention to achieve a more uniform and fairer way of implementing skills at state level, as well as by reforming the existing system of skills, contribute to the reduction of deficits in the state budget. Such a goal of the law is certainly commendable. However, the proposal for a law offered as a solution does not serve any such purpose. The proposal states that the proposed law lays down the establishment of a single body of art as the establishment unit of the Office for Professional Rehabilitation, Skills, Employment of Persons with Disabilities, Activities and Jobs of the Arts Body, Local Jurisdiction for the conduct of skills operations in first-degree and second-degree procedures. Definition of skills and procedures, exercise of the rights in which the skills are carried out as part of a single body of art. Witches who carry out skill-making processes within the single body of art and their status, other issues governing the work of the unique body of art. Unfortunately, this law does not settle any of these questions. The issue of the methodology and the question of the expert on art, therefore the question of the crucial importance of the functioning of the single body of art, shall be governed by the Government's regulation. Which actually makes this law completely superfluous. Furthermore, the whole proposal for a law is based on the provisions of the law on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons from which the provisions relating literally to the activities of the Institute for the Skills of Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities are prescribed, which relate to a single body of art. It is therefore unclear why a single body of art is established by law if it will act as a founding unit of the Institute for the Skills of Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, and the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities prescribes that, among other things, the name of the establishment units of the Institute is governed by the statute of the Institute. Furthermore, the resources for the work of the single authority shall be provided in the national budget. In accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3, Article 3 of this proposal of the law, but the applicant points out that the implementation of this law requires the provision of additional financial resources from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. It is not clear from this law and reasoning whether the funds will be provided by the institution or whether the single body of art will have a separate account and own means of work to be paid out of the state budget. If the funds are to be provided in the institution, then it should also be in the law, since the Institute assumes funds, rights and obligations, jobs and workers of the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund of Persons with Disabilities and the Fund is not financed exclusively from the state budget. Furthermore, the proposer did not take into account the legal obligation to educate witches and to improve skills, which certainly requires certain financial burdens. Also, the law says nothing about existing warlocks, except that they become employees of the office. For example, the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, Article 127, provides that law is ex-lege, find and opinion in the first instance is given by the Council of the Doctors of the Committee composed of three specialists, the composition of the Board of Doctors of the Commission depends on the type of injury, injury, injury or disease. Two, the finding and opinion in the second-degree procedure is given by the Board of Doctors of the Committee composed of five specialist doctors, the composition of the Board of Doctors depends on the type of suffering, wounding, injury or disease. The Ministry of Defence may appoint a number of Councils of Medical Committees referred to in this Article. How this issue will be resolved in the new unique body of art and which is the role of the Ministry of Defence in the emerging situation, it is absolutely not clear. The law has been written inexplicably and quite inconclusive, many indetermination and irregularities have been observed in relation to the establishment of a single body of art and is an unclear purpose of this law, especially if it is known that the unique body of art is a body of the institution for the art of professional rehabilitation and persons with disabilities. And this issue is being resolved by the statutes of that office. What is important to say, to read what has been done so far, and so far it has been done, we would agree as a club that, as I have also said, when we have heard information about how many witches have been engaged through which field of these 6 who have been, and these are areas of social welfare, pension insurance, education, professional rehabilitation, employment, basic maternity and parental support, protection of labour and civilian victims of war, and some aspects of disability are established, using different legal regulations in their work. And I'm saying, for these five areas, a unique list of damages as well as a unique body of art can be made for certain, and according to a unique list of damages or international classifications, it would certainly be possible to evaluate all of these civilian victims or disabled persons, while this is certainly not a practice and possibility as well as the expert team or working group that was appointed to the Ministry of the Croatian Defence, which was composed of Dr Mladen Lončar as a leader, Vlado Jukić as a doctor of medicine, Vlado Taborski, Ivica Istuk, Velimir Šušak, Vesna Nađ and Miroslav Lončar, another. And they have reached conclusions in this trial application which clearly speak about it, I will also read, the probationary application of the list in the Ministry of the Defence Family... solidarity has not proved the justification of its application in the process of recognising the monetary, non-money rights of Croatian wartime peoples of the Homeland War and Croatian defenders from the Homeland War because they cannot be trained in the same way all the potential rights which confirm and valid practice, and with too many categories of lists, it is not possible to obtain the right results. In particular, it is not possible to obtain a practical confirmation of the definition of disability as an inability to earn a living for reasons of disease or injury, and it is not possible to confirm even the definition of invalid identity as physical damage. It's a task force. The second working group that has been formed, which has done its professional work on the topic by task of the Ministry of Social Policy of the Youth, is with Mrs. Zvezdan Janič, Anica Ježić, Gordana Sudec, Ivančica Mamek Jagić and Jasmina Ostojić, their conclusions, too, will briefly read what their conclusions are. The results of the test application indicate that in 60.1% of the procedures carried out, witches pointed out that the unique list of functional abilities and the unique damage list could not describe the situation and those instruments could not be used in the artificial process in 17.7% of the cases can only be partially used. All together is 77.1%, and that says that you don't respect the professional opinion of people who deal with most of their lives. I would eventually propose on behalf of the HDZ Club that you consider once again sending a law with five categories of disabled people and a single body of art for them, and that this, as far as Croatian defenders are concerned, remains in the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders so as not to devast it, so as not to change it, so that it would not be another segment so that Croatian defenders fall under something third where they do not belong and that this ex-lege law which has been passed in order to protect the rights and needs of Croatian wartime people and victims of the Homeland War will continue to be that category which will be in the function and functionality of those who gave the most to the country of Croatia and that there will not be a dispute on that they will be those who will reduce the deficit as far as we know what is alluded here, to review the re-establishment procedures, to what is constantly implemented in the public when there is no response to the crisis, when there is no response to any response to all the problems of the Croatian wars, and so the latter, and the outcomes. But I'm going to say what the D.A. has written and the D.A.'s attorney for people with disabilities and they're in doubt whether that's absolutely how it can be applied. Given that everything that has been done so far by all the expert groups should be considered, working groups that have not found opportunities in 77.1% to be able to apply the single list as a single body so that they can meet all needs especially of Croatian defenders. I advocate it as well as the HDZ Club to reconsider and that for Croatian defenders, since it is not a great cost, that it is not a large number of those who would be in the skills, and since there are 1500 new defenders in the register of Croatian defenders who have been given status and are constantly increasing and not reducing the number of Croatian defenders in the Defence Register, I think there are new cases that will not require any great costs, but some Law on the rights of Croatian defenders as well as a rule on the list of damages and everything else remains in place through the Croatian Defence Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73354	Thank you. Romana Jerkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73355	Thank you very much. Your colleague Djakić was doing well for a while that was when you read the explanation. I almost looked at the name of the club you're talking about. Then you said the law was too high, it was unnecessary and you wondered what his purpose was. You know what this is? This is a very important document, called the National Strategy for Equalisation of Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities from 2007 to 2015. Do you know when he was brought in? 2007. And you know who brought it? It was brought by the HDZ government. Why do I mention this, why is this document important? I mean, this was the first document, so I'm glad you did, but then you didn't read it. This is me thinking the first document mentioning the importance of establishing a single body of art. I can only ask you now, I don't remember you being against this document at the time, I don't remember you being against the unique body of art, asking what made you want to change your mind? Do you think this document wasn't professional enough? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73356	Replication response, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73357	My colleague, if I wasn't against it, but I'm against the national strategy. But I said I wanted to see experts make unique criteria and see that they failed. I've read their conclusions to you, and they haven't been able to find an adequate solution in that matter. Maybe what I'm saying in five categories and a group can be found the best solution and the best criteria, but for the defense issue, it's not. Yeah, when we said the national strategy talks about it we're going to try, the expert teams were working, you heard who they were. Here's what they gave as an opinion. I support their opinion, I support what the Ombudsman says for people with disabilities, and I say we go to a second reading with five segments for which it will be a unique body of art, and leave this in the Ministry of the Croatian Defence to be as special as the special law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73358	Ada Damian, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73359	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague Romana took away a piece of the replica, and besides what she's already mentioned, you've already said that the bill is unprofessional, vague, and then I get the impression that you and I have read two different drafts of the law. I think that the law is clear enough and that it is just necessary to bring a single body that will have unique criteria that do not happen that different committees have different criteria and that they bring different levels of disability for the same damage. So at least we've witnessed in the last few days that exactly one defender had an 80 percent disability eye injury and under normal conditions in other commissions would have 30%. Here's a thank you. In addition, another sentence, this is the first reading, so if something is not clear, I believe the ministry will try to explain it a little bit and make it clearer to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73360	Replication response, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73361	Thank you very much. Well, my colleagues, we're all clear. But the law on three pages is an unserious law. The law which stipulates that regulations will regulate what experts have said cannot be applied to 77% for me is a legitimate professional finding of people who are of the profession and cannot agree that the Chetniks will be together with Croatian defenders equally valued and equally skilled and equally entitled. That's what can't put us in the same category. You and your illusions that you speak confirm my suspicions that you want to deal with Croatian defenders again. That's what you announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73362	My colleague Djakic, please don't. Who's got anything against Croatian defenders? You said yours, first reading, we'll get to second reading. Why would someone have something against a defense attorney and cut them off? I don't know what this law is about. ... She didn't say. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Oh, I'm sorry. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Have patience. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But I have to react when you perform like this. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Deputy Minister Maya Sporish. Come out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73363	Thank you very much. I came forward with this exchange, a slightly sharper exchange of views between honourary Djakic and MP Jerkovic. I don't think we should be looking for a problem for a solution because I have a solution for this problem. By the second reading you'll get the methodology, it's more or less near the end so you'll get the complete elaborated all the data you think you're missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73364	Replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73365	Madam Deputy Minister, so you do not respect these expert teams that have worked all this time to obtain methodology and application. The test application that was in both the civil sector and the defenders did not deliver good results. I talk about it all the time. You will now invent some new, non-application, no trial practice. It's just crazy. That leads to a mess that won't get results.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73366	We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Nada Murganic's. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73367	Thank you, Vice President. Deputy ministers and ministry representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to go through the text of this law really, it won't be hard, it's not long, with the aim of clarifying my dilemmas, and with the desire to really be removed because I think this is a complicated problem that half a million people who are subject to or have succumbed to various bodies of art to argue with such a scarce law because even today some tension and some kind of misunderstanding, perhaps if the text had been more concrete it would have been avoided. It is said that we want to have a unique body of art and I can really accept that it has some reasons, especially if we speak from a position that we want the welfare of our people with disabilities, regardless of whether they fall under these five resistors or fall under the Ministry of Defence. Speaking of which, I don't know what the problem is that in the article we're talking about, who we're talking about is not going to be able to count clearly and who we're going to artificially, how we're going to do it, whether this deficit reduction measure is going to apply to the reduction of rights. These days, people with disabilities, these days the defenders were quite upset, some information went public that was later denied, so why don't we avoid it anymore. The more military supplies that were in the offices of the state administration, the more they passed over to the welfare centre and the vast majority of defenders and others remained with reduced incomes, as these military supplies went to guaranteed minimum fees. If this intention is to be part of and revision of the right, why is it not said openly in the law to be audited, it will not be audited, the future new cases or something like that will be artificial. I welcome that we will have experts in a permanent working relationship, and I would love for the representatives of the ministries to hear me now, I see that they are talking to each other, because that is what we will do if we allow constant employment. However, my concern is whether we will have a sufficient number of unemployed experts, a large part of the people working on the skills are a disabled figure. When it's said who's going to do it, they're listed by me so very casually, and it goes to me in that respect that the law is superficially done, so says the doctor, the dental doctor, the dental doctor, and let them forgive me if I'm going to offend someone, and that dental medicine looks like the eye doctor who was looking at the sick legs or knees. So you should put who will be in a permanent working relationship, we already have experience, and make sure you have to look anyway for experts from the list of witches because there are various damages where you will need special subspecies and specialties. So I repeat, by opening permanent jobs, and not by contracts of action, I think it's good no matter how much this will lead to some rationalization. I don't think so, 'cause she's gonna need a new office, a new department, a new task force. Then we like to equip it, and there'll be expenses. But if it is spared, let it not go to the expense of the rights of all persons with disabilities, let them go to the heart of these according to you who have brought up the irrationality. I have another serious remark. This artisan is expected to take place in one place and that the user, or person with disabilities, will no longer have to walk in different systems in order to achieve its rights and interests. It will continue to go for the reason that the expert body will give its opinion and opinion, and in order to achieve some right, some system, some portfolio, some ministry, will give a solution because the findings and opinions are not something that neither a complaint procedure can be achieved nor a right. So, there's a little bit of an illusion that he's not gonna walk. He may not be walking for art, but he'll have to walk or go for this second. The catch is then about how these different resolutions will interpret this finding and opinion, so they should really have good education, unique attitudes. Because I repeat the different interpretations, then it leads to us automatically implying that someone got it right. And that case where someone's comfortable exists, but it's always hard for me when a whole one activity, a whole profession is characterized by one such bad and negative way. The law is so cheap that I don't see any reason why it shouldn't be prescribed and as part of the law what that finding and opinion will look like. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't be here and a detailed methodology is prescribed. Everything that is adopted at the level of some regulations and regulations is in fact a final act and we will not be able to have such a debate, and it will be possible more often if it is at the level of the ministry or government to change what is also not good because it is indeed a sensitive area. After all, the general public, the professional public, the associations really had the most. It is seen from the case on the public hearing of the remark that the finding and opinion as it will appear, what the methodology will look like should be an integral part of this Law. Here I think we should really, in good faith in this law, clear up whether or not the defenders are going, if the Ministry's intention to go into this unique body is to say that with that, and not like that, there are some doubts, difficult words that, after no one, are actually just making further work and cooperation difficult. The defenders have reason not to be in this, and I think that given everything that has gone through with the changes in their condition and status, they should respect that decision because they deserve it. And only for the end. This ministry has come up with so many extensive laws that cross even around or about 300 articles, or more than 300 articles. So, what I'm saying is that every right, every institution or institute that comes from that resistor, has been dismembered in detail so that I don't see any reason that, with a little effort, this Law is really more concrete and clear to another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73368	Thank you very much. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73369	Thank you very much. Well, you mentioned everything that has an important impact and which significantly raises doubts about the credibility of this law and its application. Here's all of it, and in the form of the report on the counselling carried out, it also writes what the Ombudsman said about people with disabilities. It says, since the most important issues on which the relevance of findings and opinions will depend are intended to be regulated by sublaws,... By power, we can define our own attitude toward this Law, so we can only express our doubts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that the unique methodology must be systematically part of this law, and I suggest that the proposal for a law on a single body of art be filled in by a unique methodology of art, and in an explanation, by comparing indicators, confirmation and financial sustainability of such a proposal. Also, an integral part of the law should be the institutional structure of the unique body of art. ... And they doubt this law and they have doubts. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[Grebec raid: Turn on the microphone, your colleagues turned it off.]] So, the deputy lady said the methodology would be obtained by the next reading in the law, but the methodology for it to be credible must be tested for a certain time with expert teams in order to be relevant in the application, so that there is no confusion in application.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73370	Replication response, Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73371	Here I really agree that this methodology must be part of the law, there must be instructions, patterns, all of what we've talked about because that way we can know exactly what we're discussing. Here is recently one rule, a good measure that comes from the area of family and legal protection where the regulation reduces the level of parental care control fee and has led to confusion that almost one good measure has almost become impossible to implement and the ministry has fixed it. So, I think the methodology should be part of the debate, not just in this House, but part of the debate of the interested expert public and part of the debate that the very ones that you mentioned are people with disabilities because it's really about them right now, not us at all, but it's really about these people. And they have the right to know how, where, by which criteria, by which groups, the lists will be reported. So civil society wants to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73372	Comrade Tomislav Ivić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73373	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister, I have said through replicas that I understand the purpose of this law and that I have absolutely nothing against this law on one condition, that Croatian defenders are excluded from this law. So let there be a unique body of art when it comes to civilian people with disabilities but leave the existing system for Croatian defenders. As counterpart Djakic said on behalf of the HDZ club. I'll tell you why. And what I'm saying applies exclusively to Croatian defenders and the reason why it should remain the condition that has been the case since the Croatian defenders. You yourself said in the opening statement that this process would say perhaps the primary art of Croatian defenders is practically over. That all those injured, injured have long solved the disability problem, that those who, by law and the extension of that period of recognition of PTSD have also filed a request at the end. Therefore, in the future there can be only re-artificial skills to determine the increase of the disability procedure due to age, which is understandable. With age, the health situation is weaker, etc. Then there will be still such skill, not in that extent as it was boredom. Well, here's what you said last year about 6000 artificial arts when it comes to Croatian defenders. This year there will certainly be fewer, 2015 even less, etc. So there's no particular reason to end it when the process is over anyway. It should also be said that the existing system of art when it comes to Croatian defenders has been practically in use for 20 years and a few years and that, regardless of all objections, he has justified his function and that the bodies of the art were included in the renting of Croatian experts, doctors from various areas, which were generally also participants in the Homeland War, which is very important. And who were therefore absolutely competent to determine the percentage of disability. What we have already said, and I will repeat because it is important, this is about rationalising that the abolition of the commissions that exist at the Ministry of Croatian Defence and in the first and second stages will not make any significant savings. Annually, these commissions cost 3 million kuna. In the commissions are people who do not have a basic working relationship, who do not have some contractual monthly compensation guaranteed, but work on a processed case. So how many objects do they get from the kuna, and that's basically the cost of art. Of course, following such a law, the question arises whether this is how all disabled people try to equalize themselves when it comes to disability. And that's what we're particularly concerned about. We need to know and repeat that all countries that have had a war experience in recent history including, of course, Croatia's special concern for the victims of war. In a way that there are also special bodies that are concerned, and there are also specific regulations and laws governing certain issues. Well, it's no accident that the Republic of Croatia has the Ministry of Croatian Defence. It's precisely to take special care of that category of people. And it's not a Croatian invention. Then why not be special bodies of art when it comes to Croatian defenders? What I am particularly concerned about as a Croatian defender is what I would say may be the picturesque expropriation of the Croatian Defence Ministry. Two, three months ago in this House, we discussed the Social Care Act where the Institute of Supply for Croatian Defence is abolished and transferred to the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Institute of Supply primarily refers to unemployed Croatian defenders. Well, he didn't happen to be at the Ministry of the Croatian Defence, and now we're pushing him into the state office social services department. This is the second case, today we are discussing the abolition of the medical commission and the question of what is the future of the Croatian Defence Ministry in the first place? Are these easy steps to make what I hope will happen in the end? None of the Croatian defenders want political parties, as well, to abolish the Croatian Defence Ministry. Or the aim of this law is to achieve a unique right through a single body of art regardless of the cause of disability. Which is absolutely unacceptable and inadmissible, and for this reason we are also with skepticism, it is an ongoing skepticism under this Law on the Single Body of Art and we will not accept it like this, nor will we vote for it unless Croatian defenders are left out of the bill. So we are not against the law in the sense that a single body of art exists for everyone except for Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73374	Replica Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73375	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Ilic, I think you've defined everything that matters. I would only add you to the fact that if such expert teams proved to us that the rules and methodologies would actually include the death of Croatian defenders, that they would write that there are spatial wounds, explosive wounds, that there is certain to be value from the Homeland War, they might have a clear picture. We'll get a second reading of a methodology that won't be applied anywhere, won't be tested and won't have an expert analysis of reality. We will get what will be a mess in this unique body of art, will be complemented by government decisions that will be necessary, government decisions will be regulated on the proposal of the Minister of Social Care, and should now be introduced into the methodology and damage of the organism from a spacious wound or explosive wound which absolutely does not meet the needs of Croatian defenders, which absolutely the Croatian Ministry of Defence puts into a second plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73376	Replication response, Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73377	Well, I agree with my colleague Djakic and what you said about the opinion of the profession when it comes to the unique body of art. I must say, there has been no chance so far of a committee for the art of the Croatian defenders in view of the very cause of disability, and given the nature of the injuries that were attempted in the war these conflicts and in the war operations. And I said that these commissions, which was quite logically involved were practically experts, people who had a rich professional and even war experience because they were generally participants in this Homeland War, people who could best assess first of all whether someone was disabled, if what the percentage of disability is, and therefore I am as against you as against this kind of skills of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73378	Romana Jerkovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73379	Thank you very much. Comrade Ivić, you've used an unusual term, an exorcism of the ministry. I believe that you were going to say that the Ministry will not have its powers and that the fate of the ministry is probably then it, today, tomorrow... So I absolutely disagree with you. [[Speech is not enabled.]] I think it's unfounded and I wonder what you're saying, because you're setting up a single body of art, because the system is going to be uniform, which is going to be less bureaucratic, which is going to be less expensive, because it's going to reduce any abuses, so if you're talking about an expert commission, they're not employees of the ministry. So you can't say that now that their services are no longer needed by the ministry, the ministry will be abolished. These are the people who worked on the deed. And the other thing that I disagree with, and it's often being manipulated with that information. When you mention the Social Services Act, you say supplies have been abolished. Well, it's not true, it's not true. How can you even say that? It's no longer called that, it's no longer called that, but because of the public who might still be watching this say that before the defenders had 1097 kuna monthly fees, wait for counterpart Djakic, now the new law has more members of the family, the singles have 800 kuna, I know very well, don't correct me in that sense. But I know something else, but I know you do, too. The defence ministry has provided budget funds for singles, Croatian defenders and will receive 3,500 thousand kunas of one-off compensation each month. So it's not true what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73380	Thank you. The reply to the replica Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73381	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, exactly what I said, the powers of the Ministry of Croatian Defence no longer exist in the Ministry of Croatian Defence and it is a classic case of extradition and it is just a good example of what you are saying now, supply. The supply no longer exists, it is now called guaranteed minimum compensation not in the amount it was and does not apply only to Croatian defenders. This institute applies only to Croatian defenders and that is quite logical. And I said that all states that have had war conflicts have special legal regulations that regulate the rights of persons who have participated in war conflicts, and even countries that have lost wars. Take an example of Serbia and their wartime, that is, the legislation or example of America. The people who participated in the Vietnam war lost the war but have all the rights as well as the wars they won. When you talk about supplies, I'd like you to know that the largest number of people who have received supplies are single and that stories about multi-member families are simple eye rub. That's not true. My colleagues, more than 60% of the users of the supplies are single. So why didn't we get the analysis? Why not when we discussed the exact data that exists, we didn't see them. Let me know a little bit more about that, though, because I've worked at the Department of Defense for 6.5 years, and I know this problem very well, and that's why I'm talking the way I talked.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73382	Comrade Tinker Millas, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73383	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Associates, Your Honor. Well, I was even thinking of withdrawing my argument since my colleagues said it all more or less. Look, the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, whether it's a title itself, the very name of that law, that it's a population that has its own specificities, a population that isn't created in a way that we can say is common but simply very specific, quite specific and all that comes through the population in terms of what we're talking about today is quite different from everything we want to put in one corridor, in one box and mix it all together, to see that as one thing. So, by one common name. We simply can't talk about a man who has his job or I don't know, his student bench or his chair and who went somewhere and came back without one leg. And we can't talk about him in the same way as we say, now he's going to be trained by a single body of art, which I don't know, unfortunately, and some other people who have problems, or have some kind of deficits in their lives, shortcomings, which are caused by something else entirely. So, you should look at the absolute cause of creation, that is, through those consequences that are... and which today in this life, therefore... in everyday life are hard to feel, they know best in their daily life and in their families. The reason for saving rationality or justice, I have to be honest, it's just a story for me so far. You said that so far there were doctors who we could think about this or what they had contract and action and I remembered, you said on the board who were independent. That's the word you used. What are they supposed to be but independent? If the experts, which the expert should be but independent, are subordinated only to the experts, to what he knows, to what he has been trained, especially if he has experience in the work that he does, not to say the experience, which my colleague Ivić mentioned, the experience from the Homeland War and he was fortunate or unfortunate to think with people who are skilled, I don't mean literally, but that he can take what they've been through, in which way, in the end, how they live and what they are today. On the other hand, to hire, so permanent employees who are going to do art, I have to say that it's not clear to me, since I keep hearing that the health care institution is simply calling out for doctors, this is about doctors who should have five and more years of experience, I'm not sure that it exists at all on the market, I don't know if we're going to import them from, as we are now part of the EU, so the market is open, whether we might have doctors or simply hire, under quotes, I'm not going to tell anyone because every doctor who has a degree is a highly educated man, but there's a need for experience, so we're going to work out how we're going to train, so it's going to be what it's going to be. So, I'm not sure that this whole story in that sense has some kind of rounded whole. I think, first of all, that this unique body of art, or the way it was approached, is that I think the first reason for that is conditionally said, is some kind of mistrust. Confidence in the system that has so far... or in people, or in all that, I don't know, what happens through the media, through stories. Remember the conversations before the publication of the register, one of these, the other, one fake, the other true, the third, so it all contributed, I won't tell the history, but we're about not going to, now we're going to push it all into one story, now it's going to be fair, fair, it's been the way it wasn't supposed to be, it's going to be cheaper. It won't be cheaper, believe me, it won't be cheaper because it's just not possible, and maybe it's not nice that we all look back at one category of people all the time, but unfortunately she's there for us, and we're kind of resuscitated with her. I think what you are, here I will repeat, what you pointed out as an argument, and you and Mrs. Nadj, so there are few people left, definitely that story is over, so let's leave the story as it begins. There are more than 20 years of people who, I say, are absolutely more specific and special, not in each sense but in that particular sense than other categories, for more than 20 years, they're experts in one form. So don't change it now in these, I don't know, the last few years, they're, they're just people who are a little bit and biologically already in another story, I don't know, more towards the end, than they are on the rise and so on. Leave it. Rationalization can be easily made,... you can come as much as it is, I don't know, per month, or I don't know how and very easily you can all of those unnecessary, all the unnecessary commissions and everything that this job requires to reduce, not to say abolish and simply rationalize to that extent that this cost is even less than it would be through this unique body of art. In the end and the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities, I only heard what, I have to be honest, which was on the board, is not the happiest with this solution of the unique body of art, and there I heard, so from the people who have been dealing with this problem for a number of years, that this law should not be the essence of this law, but rather the methodology. We're constantly talking about that in one place, witches... so the methodology was supposed to be part, or subject, or the essence of this law, and this whole thing could have been passed by some regulations. Because we're really going to be in a situation where we're going to prescribe the methodology by regulation, that in one term, one government maybe two, three times if we see that this methodology is not a good thing to change, and I don't say today is one power, tomorrow another is going to come and change it in itself. So, if you need to say the system can be rationalized in other ways, I think you can just do it by the second reading in a way I say that one category, so one part of the population, I'm talking about the entire population of people with disabilities intended for this body of art, because I'm saying you don't need to, and you can't push it all into one basket, so into one corridor. It is simply not natural, I repeat, in view of everything that these people come from, or their damage to the organism, that is, the cause or consequences of living in everyday life today. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73384	Replica, Ada Damian.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73385	Thank you, Vice President. Here's colleague Milas, we're going back to the same category all the time, and you said yourself, this isn't a law on defense attorneys where the status of defenders is regulated and absolutely not to be hacked into the rights of defenders. This is the proposal for a bill on a unique body of art skills and I repeat that first reading. And when we say in these 20 years, practically all defenders are already categorized or large majority. And if we're talking about unique art, then we're talking about all people with disabilities because the life of people with disabilities, no matter how this disability arises, is really very difficult. They must therefore be categorized under the same conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73386	The answer to the replica Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73387	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues really agree with you, the life of a disabled person is absolutely difficult and they know best how they live. But I repeat I don't want to talk about disability here as a phenomenon, I want to talk about something else. So there must be a different story called the cause of disability. I will not repeat the words of my colleague Djakic but it will come to this that you will have a person in the image of the Croatian defender and person I do not know in the image of someone who was on the other side where they are sitting in the same waiting room and waiting for the art. One had a car accident, one had a problem 20 years ago. and he will find himself in the same place in the same thing but where the same body will artificialize them. And you just can't put people who do the art of being an artist that I don't know a kind of disability, so I mean you have to have a fit absolutely, and we have people who've been doing it for 20 years, I don't know 10 or 15 who've been through the Homeland War, who have experienced more than you've said, this story about Croatian defenders about that skill at all about their disability, the work ability it brings to an end, but it's Malta no, and let it end then the way it has been so far. That we don't come in and out of situations and we don't have to keep having problems, but definitely there's gonna be bad connotations, they will, so we don't need that. There's not much money and rationalization or anything long, just a little goodwill, a little understanding if we're just going to look at technical, rational, narrow, a little bit wider, and it's going to be okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73388	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73389	Thank you very much. Comrade Milas, you have said almost everything that is prescribed by the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers in the process of art, it is clear that along with the medical documentation, the confirmation of the team on the circumstances of the victims, as well as the confirmation of the course of the Homeland War. These are things that surely this body is a unique body of art because it is not in the methodology and classification. Likewise, I would say that what the experts in the cases of Croatian war crimes are doing is that the diseases, the psychotrams, the psychological injuries are related to confirmation of the circumstances and the moment in which man was found and what he lived through. Not equal to the one born with polio, not equal to the one who experienced disability in the sports field, is not equal to the one who suffered disability in the car accident with the one who suffered in the Homeland War. Different circumstances cannot be represented by one methodology.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73390	The answer to the replica Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73391	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Djakic, you're right. For the training of Croatian defenders, whether disability or the assessment of working skills is required, the circumstances of the damages of the place, time and so on are sought. Which probably won't be in the methodology. But as far as I'm concerned, this Croatian defender who's unfortunately and others becomes some kind of code or number where he comes from, someone will take his data, generals, close the story and say goodbye we'll see each other not knowing when or will send him somewhere, and his story of everything that's made something happen, how it happened, why he went into this unfortunate work, how he lives today, and whether he has consequences not only because of everything he's hurt but because of everything he's been through, it'll all remain just a story that's never going to be heard, that no one will ever hear. So today, the Croatian defender, or wartime wartime wartime disabled warlocks, and their working ability is thus also an expert. It is the same as when you have an area of special state care, especially taking care of Vukovar, especially Zagreb in a completely different way, is not without reason. As well as the Croatian defense attorney with disabilities simply as I would say, we all had a chance to go to war in a certain if they had certain years and certain abilities and some have done so, and perhaps they have disabled their further life in some functional sense the way others live. But look, we have Croatia today, whatever it is our country and we are here to make it better. And that's why things need to be valorized maybe differently than we're looking at others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73392	Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73393	Madam Vice President. Comrade Milas, I think you've warned about the key thing, which is that we can have people with the same degree of disability, but also people as you said who have the same problems, are in the same life-real situation, but that doesn't mean that society will value it in the same way, simply because one to that disability came into war, sacrificed itself to make it better for all of us, and that's the key to the problem. If the degree of disability is evaluated regardless of how it is acquired, then it is exactly what has been said, which has been established, then not to delete the Ministry of Defence but to delete the category of defenders at all. Then we don't need defenders as a category at all, and then we need to say openly that's how it is and that's how it is. About what I think about this law and what should change to be acceptable I'll say a little later when I get my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73394	Replication response, Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73395	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Tudjman, thank you for understanding what I was about to say, I have nothing to add. It's just like that. I agree with the finding if there is an art in this way you are right, then we really don't have to write as always that it is Croatian defenders like when some stupid thing happens and the Croatian defender says it and he did it. It's enough here to write a name and name without a defense attorney, and for everything it's the same, right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73396	And Tomislav Ivić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73397	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Milas, I agree with you when you said you shouldn't put everything in the same basket and Croatian defenders should not be put in a basket with everyone else precisely because of what Comrade Tudjman noticed. The cause of disability should also be evaluated in a valuable sense, but also in terms of rights and it is perfectly logical and normal that there are specific regulations, that there are special institutions that are responsible for carrying out these regulations and to care for those who have responded to the call of country and sacrificed themselves and their health and to install parts of their body into the independence of this country and that is normal. And that's what he said, and I said in my debate that this is not just the case in Croatia, that all the countries that have had in the recent history of war experience have a particularly elaborate system of care for those who participated in these wars, including those who lost those wars, and that Croatia is by no means special and therefore does not need to catch up with the art of Croatian defenders. And so far, it's logical for me to stay that way, and we've listed the reasons why we should stay, among other things, that this process is practically at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73398	Replication response, Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73399	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Ivić, that's exactly what you said, you're right. Care or care for Croatian defenders, not about rights, but about Croatian defenders who come under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders is therefore proof that defenders, at least they should be part of this, so the population that is part of the community but which has some kind of specificity whose equivalent is this country, as well as the whole of this people. But I'd go back to what you are, now it's a little bit in my head that you said in terms of what Mr. Tudjman said, in terms of the existence of the ministry. Indeed, if this concern is transferred through supplies and now through the art of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, I really don't see what the Croatian Defence Ministry will do. Are we just going to go through project associations and share a pension that's being transferred from...? This can simply be done by the Ministry of Labour, we can also go with projects to the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. There's no reason to exist. If, therefore, care is not introduced through the ministry and through everything the ministry has been in these since '97. I think there is if I'm not wrong, through everything that the ministry has created all these years, whether good or bad, I think a lot more good, what's wrong should somehow be neutralized to be as small as possible, and then what's that... I think today at least I'm sorry now here are all the people with disabilities who don't belong to the category of Croatian defenders, we're talking mostly about Croatian defenders, but not out of evil intentions, just because they are really in their own kind of becoming the one that hit them are a little bit specific. They sure are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73400	Thank you very much, dear colleague. But I don't think there's any reason why the D.A. wouldn't exist. The mandate before that was not as a special ministry, it was within each other, now it's special again and there's no reason to fear. ... Comrade Josip Djakić, come in. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73401	Thank you very much. I was thinking that in order to reduce the deficit, I would give up the debate, but here's the reason I found a reason to discuss it in an individual debate, and I'll say the following. And I'll say next, Article 58. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the new edition of special care states devotes its protection to persons with disabilities, their inclusion in social life, and special care to the protection of Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime disabled, widows, parents and children of the dead Croatian defenders. I think this law absolutely ignores these constitutional provisions that are defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. All professional analyses of 441 subjects were ignored by this expert analysis and this is not worth anything to anyone. In the second part of 145 cases, it was skillful, tried to find the most pathetic list, a unique list of damages, and it failed to speak, not to read now how the skilled came out and not to repeat what the conclusions of that working group that gave its opinion were. No one is respected, nor is the Constitution respected. In particular, I would like to emphasise the Croatian defenders have the excuse to doubt the derogation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers as a special regulation and as a category described in the Constitution. And be assured that we will not be able to easily interfere with this unless we have a clear understanding of all the criteria, standards, and test skills. If not, everything else is intended for Croatian defenders to be the subject of review again, the subject of abolishing the right, the subject of the persecution of the witch as well as in the previous term of the government which has levelled three-and-a-half thousand, and then the administrative courts in their powerful verdicts handed down the millions of amounts that the Croatian state had to pay. That's what I'm afraid of. I'm afraid not all the intentions are revealed in the adoption of this Act, and I'm afraid that this unique body that has no unique list of damages and a unique criterion for everyone in which to be covered by what I was talking about absolutely cannot function with 1.1.2015. It's impossible in a year to do what was done and it didn't work. It has been rated as bad, considered impossible, estimated to be more than 70% that it cannot be applied to victims of the Homeland War, and in part to civilian people with disabilities. Invalidity is a thing that is in different categories like you said 6 or 7 categories there is a different definition. And if all this were to be an evaluation, it would be possible to put into one unique list of functionality or what is called an international classification of the functioning of disability and health in the disability training process it should be so called in Croatia it is impossible to achieve this expert team that has done the professional work equally said after 441 respondents trying to apply all of this that is absolutely impossible. I therefore call on you to try to find criteria for these 5 or 6 categories by the second reading, without leaving the category of Croatian defenders in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences and that you do not exempt what is defined clearly, unequivocally in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. Because the next step is that in the next period until 1.1.2015, we must have amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers in which a certain article 127 will surely be deleted. But it is related to a number of other articles that will discuss the rights of Croatian wartime wartime disabled victims of the Homeland War, families imprisoned, missing and others. And it is impossible with the same body to artificialize persons who are differently defined, defined by the circumstances of the injury, defined in the course of the Homeland War and confirm how much they have tried, medical documentation and two degrees of skill in the first and second. Of course it can't be in this unique criterion, it can't be on a unique body and it's impossible to do what you came up with. Only 4.3% of the total population of 441 can be evaluated according to the functional lists used, only 4.3%. Why don't you respect the expert's opinion? Why don't you respect the appeal and us to try with civilian victims in six categories to hire. So we will maintain this unique body of art, and leave the defenders in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, as prescribed by the Constitution. I would ask you not to be rude until the second reading and in the second reading, not to mention all aspects and possible events that are certainly present with Croatian defenders who will be audited in the proceedings and brought again another accident. I'm not against those suspected of being put on review. But it can't be that the whole population's been stegmatized again. I'm talking about what's going on, I'm talking about what the population suspects, I'm talking about what the intention is and the intention that's hidden, which is not seen here, and it's confirmed by changing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders. There is no more supply in it, it is now called different and the other ministry takes care of them. The third month is under way, no one's got anything yet. No one's even got the kuna yet. No solution has been issued. I mean, what are we talking about today? So we're aware of the situation that by taking over what's called the documentation and by the criteria that have been put in place, it's not even possible to achieve that guaranteed minimum fee that's as defined. It's the social aid team of the poorest. It was really what made them survive at least somehow, now they don't have it, they're left without it. They don't get paid, they don't have those rights anymore. The rights must be regained in new procedures and new requirements, in new evidence. And what the most reluctances have to sign a statement that makes a record of their assets so that if they've taken something wrong, they're all terrified and no one wants to sign it. Because that's the possibility that the Family Law shows up at the desert debate at the Social Care Center with the demand he's recorded and none of those who would possibly appear as heirs to the right if he didn't return what the state took care of that defender. That's what they're afraid of. I'm saying what's perception. It tried, we explain to them that it didn't, we explain to them that they shouldn't be afraid, that it wouldn't be, but here's the doubt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73402	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Comrade Miroslav Tudjman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73403	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In the beginning, it should be said that what is acceptable is the law's intensity that instead of 6 institutions in 6 systems can obtain one certificate, one attitude that would then be valid in all these different systems as listed by social welfare, pension insurance, education, professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, rights based on maternity and parental support, protection of war and civilian war victims etc. All that goes on beyond that is what the English would say wishful thinking. It just doesn't have anything to do with reality. And it's said in more places and more ways. First of all, let's start by thinking that someone went to this law and put together some basic management courses and you'd simply see that this is an out-of-date system of thinking, an out-of-date system of organization. Because it simply wants to create one body, one organisational body that would then solve all other problems. And that such an approach is unrealistic is already seen from the very title of the law that says it is the Law on the Single Body of Art. What body is that? What kind of body is that? As the legislator has not even been able to define it. What would be normal and what is in the modern world to which this is sought is to achieve the unique standards and values for which a society will behave. And that means what has already been said to adopt a unique methodology of art. And that doesn't mean to form a new body, but to lay down rules where all of these 6 systems or subsystems, as we already call them, are going to use the same methodology. A clear thing is going to kill it, it says, but there were embezzlements, or embezzlements, but abuses, and then it's being argued. Every system established must have a control mechanism, and it's not here either. Thus, to make this better, the system could then be told what would be the control mechanism. What else doesn't work on this? It's not my argument but it's on the Committee of Veterans of the Doctors, we heard something today from the data that the deputy lady here has made that there are some if I'm not mistaken 47 professionally employed witches and beyond that up to 900 part-time or whatever it is called. Asking how many employees this office should have on the board we've heard 200 people. Then it's simply said that you these doctors, and you should mostly be doctors, simply not. You don't have them in Croatia. On the other hand, to find them, you won't get them for that salary I can get in the state administration. And to get them for that salary, you can't provide them with specialization and promotion. So it was done on quicksand. Plus there's no budget at all. We've heard how much this system costs now, 43 million, we haven't heard at all what this price of such a new body with these new and old employees, how much would it cost, and in the bill of law, it doesn't count on new funds from the budget, or it won't require what it's called. On the basis of which it is concluded, where these data are, where that analysis is. I mean it's simple, that approach is unserious, undergrown, and there's just no guarantee it'll lead to the desired result. We all want it to be more efficient, better, no one wants it to have to wait six times in six different tails to get to the same, or finds based on a single document. So it's simply something that doesn't guarantee success and whatever wishes we can accept. And even then we have this one thesis, counterpart Djakic said he could examine good intentions. I have another thesis, I can even believe in good intentions but ignorance and stupidity often produce the same effects as bad intentions. So we now have data on how much capacity is, or an annual number of examples. We have heard the code in these changes in pension and other social security where the obligation is now to go again every two to three years to what is called a check-up, disability checks, or health conditions. No one has given a budget as far as it is, how much that capacity of that one body must be under these new circumstances. On the other hand, no one here has listed all the laws, I can see that the deputy is having a lot of fun and laughs all the time while we're discussing here, but it's probably part of this one worldview and the relationship to it. No one has stated how much law should be amended to comply with this law if it will be accepted. We had recently said that 26 laws had to be changed in one item when those inspection controls changed. I mean, it's just that things aren't prepared, it's not fair work, so... What's still said and what we must especially emphasize. If it's going to be that disabled people of the Homeland War are going to get even with all the other people with disabilities, then that's what you should say openly. But then it should also be said and acknowledged that it is an amendment to constitutional provisions that was just read at a small door or asked for these constitutional provisions to be respected because, if so, if this law is to be in collegiate, then there is also a possibility that constitutional suits, or that this law is to be brought down in the Constitutional Court. Therefore, one far more thoughtful, more sensitive approach would be much desirable by respecting both constitutional provisions and everything that all parties in this House formally advocate but that it is also implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73404	Tomislav Ivić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73405	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Tudjman, I agree with your debate and you are truly absolutely right when you say that the key thing is a unique methodology and not a unique body and I seem to have told me in my debate and it is certainly so when you talk about the control mechanisms that are not in this law and when you talk about this law not to prevent the abuses that have been so far. I ask the question is whether it's logical that someone who's skilled you're ever getting into a permanent working relationship and you're giving him the opportunity to artificialize for 40 years or 45 years as far as it's under the law up to 67 years of work. So there's nowhere to go, that someone's getting into a permanent working relationship and they're going to be an expert if he wants it his whole life. Well, that's the possibility of manipulations that are huge, with each year getting bigger and bigger. I would limit the process in which a doctor can be a professional to 5, 10 years maximum just to achieve some security of the system and to protect the system from possible this manipulation. Just as you've well noticed, how many laws we're going to have to change after this law is passed, one for sure. It is a law on the rights of Croatian defenders from which articles will have to be deleted that say that the skills of Croatian defenders are implemented in the first and second degree, that there is a special established medical commission within the Ministry of the Family. So I agree with you that basically the proposal to kill this law is not well prepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73406	Replication response, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73407	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So you see about the methodology, it's already been said that this should be the core of this law, or this intention. But you have a problem with this methodology that we have nothing in this law and that's already said. And it's even said that the government should define it, in my opinion it's a bureaucratized mentality and approach that the government defines a methodology. The relevant scientific institutions involved should propose a methodology so that this methodology is professional and based on the profession, not in the political will of this or that of the coalition in power. And that's another argument that we're producing laws without being interested in the opinion of the profession at all. And on the other hand, there's just one more proof of how pervasive this law is and how much simply you don't know which way this methodology is going to be defined, and on the other hand, you have something else. It's a clear thing that just today in the modern world, you're going to have people who are going to do only one job, or art. It just doesn't work anymore, no expert in the world works out of any profession anymore. Therefore, it is necessary to have, far more rationally, a solution would be that you have a combined system with these people, but you also have to educate them, or educate them to obtain certificates and create a control mechanism that will control that they will behave as they require.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73408	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73409	Thank you very much. Here, colleague Tudjman, I came up with what I suspected. So in the debate that was held, Minister Miranda Mrsic made it clear what he would do with this law. Revision of all 315 thousand persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. He has already ordered and launched a revision of disability pensions. It's a clear goal of reducing the deficit by dissuading because there will be no such thing as what happened today, what I was talking about. On the other hand, the deputy spoke about all the data, and I don't think the minister agrees because the minister says that we spend it all yearly on an artisan 19.5 million kuna, at a conference she ran. You said that in social care alone, you spend 14 million kunas, a total of 43 in all segments. I don't know who, you add something more every time or you don't match your information. We believe that what they are announcing will not happen and we believe that Croatian defenders will not be the ones who are going to extract the deficits of this incompetent authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73410	Replication response, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73411	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you see, what I think you said at the beginning of your debate, not in the replica, but in the debate, that the main motive of this law-making is the reduction of deficits. If that is the main motive, then simply postulate righteousness there is nothing to ask because the goal is something else. On the other hand, we saw when it came to insisting on processing the defense registry, then 160 thousand false defenders were said. Now in the meantime... Or sorry, yeah, 360, good, whatever. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In the meantime, that number only grew, so reality is quite different and reality for those who claimed it wasn't. And also this number of 305,000, if I remember correctly what you said will only be able to confirm or increase in terms of time flow and simply say, a technical expression of the damage that the human organism suffers when it suffers through time. So, one model that says, not all this is wrong so far, it's all been fraud or abuse, it's simply producing mistrust, I'm that kind of approach. We also need to get one stable society to start with mutual respect and one model that respects all arguments on the one hand and on the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73412	Final word, Deputy Minister, Mrs. Maya Sporish, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73413	Thank you very much. Here, at the very end, I'd like to focus on a few quick answers, which we can give right now. So 19 million figures refer to fees, it's misunderstood. Sublegal acts, 10 laws and 20 implementing rules will be amended and, yes, the requirement for a constitutional assessment is an entirely legitimate option in this society. At the very end, I would like to thank you for this extensive debate, and until the second reading, we will be very careful to consider all your suggestions, all that has been made today. I've heard a lot of it with my associates, some of the shows I liked very much, somewhere they might have calculated some of the flat-rates, somewhere a little bit of the truth, some of them were... offensive, it's all part of this debate. But I personally liked the debate of the respected representative, Milos, and I had one sentence left in my ears, which is that it's mean and ugly when we find in the media a sign that the defender robbed the post office, the bank. And I get my stomach up myself then because you know about all of us here, I'm convinced, in this room it doesn't really matter who the person who did it is. Is he a lawyer, is he a toker, is he a professor? Anyone. He's you, I'm sure for all of you in this hall, and for me, he's what he is and he's a thief. And such qualifications personally disgust me and resent it in the media, I very much resent it. When we passed the Social Care Act, we talked about the category of citizens who are poor, about those who don't literally have the most necessary, about covering the most necessary costs of life, about what we don't call a risk to poverty, not, but to those who are in the midst of that poverty. That's when I said our only criterion, and I'm going to repeat it now, when creating a guaranteed minimum fee that two supplies entered, one according to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and the other according to the Law on Civil Victims' Rights of War, that the only criterion is that the person is poor and that we don't really need to be interested in the fact that she's a retired tokar, she's either a professor or she's a far-reaching defender. The only criterion we went with is that this person doesn't have enough resources to live with. And also if we are talking about the problem of Croatian defenders at this point through the aspect of this law we are talking about today, several times the law is not bad, the law is good, the law should only be taken out of it by defenders who we have already found in the end line that status issues have already been reported more or less, more or less finished, personally I think that in this matter as well as in other issues of Croatian defenders and in the solutions offered by this law should not be resolved separately from the rest of the people, and I have heard countless times in the media and directly that even defenders themselves do not like to be gouted in such a way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73414	And now we're going to move on to replicas. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73415	Thank you very much. Well, it's true that it's over a thousand contracts of action that carry $19.5 million, that's exactly what the minister said, but it's not everything else you've presented to us and told us. And so it is from her debate that I have repeated. The getoisation of Croatian defenders when talking about society and their accommodation should also be on the issue of housing, but this is a specific thing that you probably do not understand that Croatian defenders of the victims of the Homeland War must also give confirmation of the circumstances where they were killed. We don't see what it's going to come from, we don't see how it's going to be evaluated, we don't know anything about it, and Miranda Mrssic announces that all of this will be revised, that's what I'm talking about. I don't speak ill, I don't say it by heart, I say what is at the Ministry's hearing when it was led and said the representatives of the Croatian War Disabilities Associations, all those who participated in the public debate. Listen to these people, listen to the D.A., do what's most needed, and that's the transparency of the law, so there's no doubt. And don't touch the Croatian defenders they have a special place in the Constitution so they have so in law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73416	Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73417	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So I think first one principle position where you should define however or remind yourself of the rules which are executive power and what is in the competence of the executive authority, and what is Parliament and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. We're not here to be judged by the executive authority by our statements and our statements. Lawmakers on behalf of the Government may be in agreement or not, but they cannot give us MPs regardless of which side we came to assess whether we are like this or not. And I think that's what the deputy lady should have been warned of. On the other hand, every law is discriminatory. The laws are passed to establish the difference between someone and something, and if you go with this thesis that the defenders are ghettoized then they are already ghettoized in the Constitution, then you ask for an amendment to the Constitution. Is with thesis the only criterion of poverty, I agree that poor people can't live and need to be helped, but then is this law and this kind of law enforcement, and then it's a far-reaching matter, and not simply these formulations, is you going to getoise the defenders. Listen, that ghetto would have been a pretty big, 500 thousand people. So I think it's simply an argument that in this case for discussion and arguments that we've been making inappropriate and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73418	Tink Milas, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73419	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Deputy, I agree with you not to getoise Croatian defenders, but what you're talking about has nothing to do with ghettoisation, it's simply you're saying that your only criterion is poverty. I agree that he is one of the criteria, but changing the formulation that supply is now equal to the minimum protection fee that the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders has passed into a law that is under the authority of social policy and youth. Well, you can't say that that's where the people who were on the supply were damaged. They are, and that's clear to you. And that's exactly why the Ministry of Defense has prepared a certain amount of money that all those who will not be entitled to a minimum protection fee want help, but that's a one-time fee that we hope will come and it's not the law. It's not a complete solution, and that's why we made these people kind of poorer than they were. If your criteria are poverty, then you don't need to deepen it, and this is what you've done and deepened it for that category of people. Because I repeat, if you didn't think so, you wouldn't have provided money at the Ministry of Croatian Defence for people who wouldn't get that protection fee. And criticising defenders should not be done in a way, I am a Croatian defender but I have never pointed it out or will ever point out, I want to be a Croatian representative in a way that calls myself Zvonko Milas without the defense attorney's prefix. But these are some other things. The man who died in the Homeland War he went to, and therefore all those who are poorer or richer, in accordance with their age and possibilities, can't valorize him in this sense, just like everyone else, and there can't be the only criterion of disability or the only criterion of poverty. There are other things to look at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73420	Thank you. Ada Damian, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73421	Deputy Minister, congratulations on your closing statement. You just said the point you were supposed to say. But I've reported that there's not a single sentence left in the air, which is ignorance is worse than bad intentions, but I think we should ask ourselves what to call both incorrect and insinuating. I think we should call them dangerous insinuations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73422	It wasn't a replica to whom it was sent. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. My colleagues and colleagues, tomorrow we will continue the debate at 9.30 p.m. with the proposal for a law on financial operations and accounting for non-profit organisations. Thank you very much. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-05-0.u73423	Proposal for a law on a single body of art, first reading, P.Z. No. 557. The debate on the proposal is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on a single body of art is hereby adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. By raising our hands, I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that we have reached the proposed conclusion by a majority of votes, 87 votes in favour and 19 votes against. Thank you very much.
