ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67007	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, my address today will be first in line with the new Law on the Co-operation of the Parliament and the Government in European Affairs under which the Prime Minister is obliged to submit a report to the Parliament once a year on the meetings of the European Council. We have opted for this form of reporting in order to show respect for the Parliament and its irreplaceable role in formulating and managing European affairs, as well as to highlight the importance of European topics for the everyday life of our citizens. In 2013, 5 European Council meetings were held in Brussels, i.e. two meetings since Croatia's entry into full membership. In this most important part, the European Union body, as of 1 July last year, is equal to all other Member States. Since 1 July of last year, Croatia can literally block some important decisions of the European Council with its vote and belonging to veto law. But we are not experiencing this possibility, and we will never experience the means of blackmail and day-to-day political manipulation, but one of the guarantees of our full equality, I stress full equality within the European Union. Unfortunately, in our political and public life, there is still not enough awareness of Croatia's equality and equality in the context of the European Union. Citizens are trying to scare off some sanctions that Croatia is reportedly constantly threatening from Brussels or this or that fictional reason. As we know, fear mostly comes from ignorance. Croatia has not entered the Union provided it is silent and listening. After all, Croatia does not want a European Union in which a disagreement would be punished in its opinion or advocating its own interests in equality in all matters and in common with common sense. Such a union would mean devising the idea of European integration. Croatia has fought in a long and difficult negotiating process and now deserves equality and partnership status. Equality, of course, involves responsibility and mutual trust without which there is nothing, not democratic society or modern economy, and trust is primarily based on rational insight into its own capabilities and interests. It is a formula for successful Croatian membership in the Union. We will stick to that and we will never tire of repeating the fact that Croatia has been a full member of the European Union since 1 July 2013, nothing less and nothing more. We hope that this vote will come to all citizens or at least to most citizens, as well as analysts, politicians, all of us, journalists, judges, artists and others who have bent to the point of view in the media. The nobility is binding. Since Croatia became a full and stable member of the Union, two two-day meetings of the European Council in Brussels, the first in October, the second in December 2013. Both times, as at previous council meetings where Croatia had no right to vote, the economic topics were dominant. If I could sum up the economic talks at European Council meetings in essence, then I would say that they consist of balancing modes between the two in many contradictory processes: consolidation of public finances and budgetary savings on the one hand, and implementation of recovery and economic growth measures on the other. This is also the Union's multiannual financial framework for the period from '14th to '20th, which allocated about 11 billion and 700m euros of available funds to Croatia. It was a compromise between those who insisted on reducing the financial framework by 100 billion euros and those friends of cohesion that we were among ourselves, who advocated more serious and strengthened the development component of the multiannual budget. And a large part of our government's activities and reflections are precisely in search of the best ratio between these two basics and European and our economic policies. I must say that only a small number of Union countries have managed to find an optimal measure between these two requirements that stand before economies affected by the financial crisis. Mostly those countries have succeeded, or I would say only those countries that have implemented reforms and consolidation in times of stronger GDP growth and financial stability and cheaper money. This last one isn't the least important, the cheaper money. When these good times were in Croatia, we unfortunately did not have those reforms. We can see the results. Croatia did not invest in development and production but unfortunately in balancing and maintaining the status quo. For example, only in the last year has Croatia started enrolling on Europe's energy map, although this, given our geostrategic geographical position, simply put, should have started to happen long ago, to begin to happen in order for anything to happen. Our energy projects and potentials today are seriously interested in some of the globally largest private and state-owned companies. It's still not a guarantee of success, but it's the beginning of a serious process. This will lead exclusively to national interests, without any political and civilizational prejudices, and the European Council will deal in March between other Member States and Croatia's initiative, energy policy and security. So there are painful and far-reaching consequences of what has happened in the past and for which I do not want to make any particular accusations here because obviously the whole series of European countries had the same policy. It turns out that those who ran a practical and smart policy, as always, are a minority in every business. For two years, we have been trying to impose order and compliance with the laws in Croatia, but the time has come and assumptions have been created to speed up reform and structural procedures, which should not, however, lead to further social decomposition and an increase in the number of socially excluded and abolished. These were always enough in Croatia, and today there are too many, and there is one too many, but none of them are immune. The meaning of reforms consists of increasing efficiency and liberating space for even greater impulses of development and employment. In any case, the implementation of reforms must by no means lead to the loss of faith in the concept of solidarity that is incorporated into the foundations of the European Union and our understanding of politics. Today, the Finance Council will confirm Croatia's proposal to enter the excessive deficit procedure. The excessive deficit procedure is not a European penalty for Croatia, however, it is a procedure through which almost everything, with the exception of two or three European states, some faster and more successful, some longer, harder and less successful. It is a mechanism that will help us to put order into the system and implement reforms that have been delayed in this country too long, in our Croatia for too long. Of course, when I say no political calculations, maybe it's not true enough. Such decisions are always political in the end. So the decision to live in accordance with your options that may not be as low as you think is always a political decision. The decision on deficits is always a political decision, always the same, in the last 200 years it's always the same. The ability and the will and the incompetence and the lack of will to do something, it's the only recipe. We will reform unsustainable systems, in this way unsustainable health and education systems, taking care of what I said earlier. That's what Germany did, not just Germany 10 years ago. And as we can see, although the comparison may not be the happiest and may not be the most correct, it has not fallen apart, it has progressed. At a higher level, we will restructure the state administration, public services and an unusually important critical system, of course to the extent that the Government and the Parliament can and can. We will reform labour legislation, continue to restructure state and public enterprises. We will reorganise and rationalise the system of state agencies, as well as the system of state property management. There's something going on. We continue to train and improve the work of the state administration for the maximum use of money from European funds because that is essentially the whole equation. The more money you withdraw, the more ready you are, the better you are, the more successful you are. The less you burden the state budget with public projects, the more successful you are. If that's 0%, and you pulled out the European funds 100%, then you're unimaginably successful, it didn't work out for anyone. It is a job that we can only do together in the best interests of Croatia. It's a job that needs to be done in a relatively short time, I won't say within as short a time as possible but within a short time. So the aim of these reforms is to lower the budget deficit below 3% and public debt below 60%. It is, of course, an ideal condition, but it is also unsustainable in the long term if there is no growth and new jobs, unsustainable. Not in Croatia, but in any other or third country. The Eurozone has learned a lesson from the recent financial crisis, and now a more sound framework for long-term economic, monetary and banking stability is being developed. As far as the banking union is concerned, the process of establishing an integrated financial framework relating to euro area members has been under way for some time. Croatia supports European leaders' efforts to create a banking union, however, we will look further at the participation and modes of participation, taking care of our interests again, the fact of high exposure to Croatia's euro area, and the structure of ownership of the banking sector in Croatia, which is 90 per cent and how much of the euro area countries. These aren't things you can ignore. Youth unemployment is recognised at meetings of the European Council, one of the most priority topics and problems of the European economy, politics, society. In addition to the European Council meetings last year, the highest-level conferences in Berlin and Paris were held, which I personally participated in, which were dedicated exclusively to considering measures that should lead to a relatively rapid reduction of youth unemployment. This rate varies from country to country and is conditioned by a number of factors, from the demographic structure of society to how many young people are in the education system, so that these figures are not absolute indicators and should always be analysed in detail. We don't look so good in here. Croatia, which belongs to members with high youth unemployment, has been actively involved in the development and implementation of a very important Union initiative for youth employment, so we expect the first financial effects of the Youth Guarantee Programme, Youth Guarantee. As part of this programme, it is predicted that all persons under 25 years of age and under 29 years of age, within 4 months of the completion of schooling or the loss of previous work, receive a quality and concrete business offer. This implies an offer for work, practice, traineeship or follow-up education. The offer must be tailored to individual needs and situations. The European Youth Employment Initiative will have the next 7 years with 6 billion euros in grants, with half of that amount available this year. As far as the Youth Guarantee Programme is concerned, we expect 62m euros in the next two years, and the first 37m should have been made in the first half of this year. The same amount, so 62m euros to encourage youth employment, is expected in the next two years and from the European Social Fund. These are also other European programmes aimed at the employment and education of young people such as EURESA and Rasmus Plus and the European Association for Education. European money will not solve all of our youth employment problems, but it is extremely important that we get these funds and use them in the smartest way, that the youth unemployment rate from 50 to more is reduced to reasonable, with those 50 and some percent referring to those between 15 and 25 years of age, and neither to school nor to study, nor to some training programme. So that's the one unfortunately the rest. That's about 70,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So, a big percentage. Maybe not such a large number, but certainly a very bad start for those people, and the one who goes bad usually suffers. So it's hard to catch his speed. Croatia naturally and independently implements measures that should be innate by making it easier for young people to come to work. The measures include training and education, retaining employees of young workers, public works, self-employment, increasing mobility and significant relief for employers who employ young people. During 2013, more than 50,000 unemployed were used by active employment measures. This year, we have allocated more than half a billion kuna in the budget for this purpose, and together with EU funds, we will have almost a billion kuna at our disposal most so far. In doing so, the government is not only focused on concrete employment measures. Most reform measures in education, economy, craftsmanship and culture. However, the most important measure to address this problem, but also many other structural difficulties of our economy, ladies and gentlemen, is the adoption of a new Labour Act, that is, the amended Labour Act, not a completely new Labour Act. It's a European norm, and yet it's not in the classic sense of words. So that's our choice and our decision, political decision, change or the old one. The choice is very simple, of course in a political sense very difficult. The reform of labour legislation, namely the dynamicization of the labour market, is not our whim or expression of our social insensitivity, which is often heard. That's so very convenient and nice to say. It is a tool that we must use to preserve jobs, but also to make it easier to get new jobs and to encourage job creation. At least that was the case in countries that had achieved some result and where both the left and the right had the same or different consensus in those countries as we have. In a government whose president I assure you do not sit political kamikazes, but people who are responsible and have some interests have political interests. Can anyone believe that the government is in the interest of more of our citizens losing their jobs or being humiliated? In whose interest would that be? What hidden forces in this country? Is there really anyone who can believe that the government would go along with an even greater number of fired workers? These are health-reasonal logical questions that are being asked here. So our only and most important interest is, but if it's the only one then it's the only thing that makes more people have a job and honest pay for honest work. This was never the case in Croatia, nor in the socialism many are calling for. Either people didn't work or they had imaginary jobs. The reform of the labour market is a major and inevitable step in this direction as well as towards increasing the competitiveness of our economy. The opening of jobs, new investments and recovery of the economy are our obligation to all those who are now at the Employment Service and to those who are not and those who are not in statistics, who are not looking for work and are not registered to the Bureau. Because these are people, there are people among them who are simply not working. They're citizens of this society. Some have given up. So our goal is to reduce the number of unemployed, to preserve existing jobs, and to change the Labour Act not radical change, but to trace part of what the successful countries did 10 years before we changed the rule system in Croatia so that more people could get the chance to work. At its meetings, the European Council insisted on the importance of various forms of support for small and medium-sized enterprises, as this segment of the economy is crucial for a stable and healthy economy. The burden is put on finding the best models to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises have a favourable access to capital, because at this point the situation is terrible and what is even worse is different in individual EU members, within the euro area, between Germany and Italy double in favour of German small businesses as regards interest rates. In Great Britain, which is the only one with some monetary sovereignty, which is expensively paid for by hidden inflation again by third terms. So today it doesn't matter, it's never been, but today there's a bigger difference than ever in whether you're doing a job in southern Europe or doing it in Central and Northern Europe, and it creates a total imbalance on something that should be a single market. The general assessment is that one of the most urgent tasks of the European financial authorities and Member States is to design a mechanism that would allow easier, faster and cheaper access to capital as I have told businesses throughout the Union. That's where it got away, but still far from the finish line. Realising the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises, our government has allocated about 900 million kunas of Croatian money to companies over the past two years through an entrepreneurial impulse. Croatia's Bank for Reconstruction and Development approved around 15 billion kuna loans last year, and HAMAG INVEST issued five times more guarantees last year for entrepreneurial and craft projects compared to 2011. In addition, the government has also stimulated entrepreneurship with many other reliefs and discharges. I will only mention that we have reduced the health contribution by 2 percentage points, which is a controversial measure still is, so this is a political measure where you chose between the two options – the economy has been disbursed. The results we expected were less than we expected, but that was a conscious decision. And we just didn't want to give up on her in these two years. The economy has reduced the burdens, the burdens of 2 billion kunas. That's not small. We've abolished the profit tax that's being reinvested. It's also a political decision. The question is, not everyone reacted to it the same way. Some people accumulate and accumulate capital and do not invest. And the question is, was that measure the smartest? But she was thoughtful anyway, and we didn't make her up. Others took it before us. So we freed private companies a billion and 200 million kunas. But that doesn't mean that those money went into investment. Some keep them, like companies do outside, just in the drawer to express myself. So far, 52 parafiscal charges have been abolished, as is said to weigh about 400 million kuna, slightly less than 400 million kuna. In the future, we will not ignore direct and indirect incentives to entrepreneurship, especially those companies that export goods or services. And there is no 15% of those in Croatia. I'll take a quick look at the agricultural policy before I ask how much time do I have? Ten minutes, good. [[Intruder Light: 10 minutes.]] With the land reform launched, the concept of subsidisation which reverses Croatian agriculture has been replaced by a system of granting support that is transparent and regulated according to EU standards. Of course, correctness does not seem to be any revolutionary idea of this government, but rather a path to which any government would be referred. This is simply the consequence of EU accession and I believe it is better for our agriculture. And of course there will be winners in that process, and there will be great winners, but there will also be losers. As regards European agricultural policy last month, the Council of Ministers adopted a reform package of the common agricultural policy for the 2014-2020 period, a package negotiated since 2010. New politics is characterized by so-called Greening, greening, identification of active farmers, reduction of payments to large economies, and abolition of the production quota for milk from 2015 and production quotas for sugar from 2017. Special news is the promotion of young farmers who are intended for 2% of the total national envelope in Croatia. The Croatian draft rural development programme was sent to the European Commission yesterday. The areas we discussed at the meetings of the European Council, and in which I also see a Croatian opportunity, are a digital economy and innovation. Digital services and telecommunications are assessed by the crucial drivers of growth and productivity in all sectors of the European economy. Innovations are also assessed by the key to European competitiveness. Croatia is fully aware of the viability of reforms and investments in the field of the digital economy and research as well as of the steps in establishing a single telecommunications market. In the debate on the subject on the European Council, as well as a separate discussion with European Commission officials and the president, however, I stressed the need to build up the appropriate regulatory framework as quickly as possible, as well as concerns, that is to say, the interest that further liberalisation of the digital market could jeopardise the fiscal revenues of smaller EU members, which would further boost economic imbalance within the EU. This is a process where big players profit and the ideal is listed by an American model with 3, 4 or 5 providers and in Europe reportedly 150 to 200. However, if this model were to go through those 4 or 5 providers, i.e. the service provider in Europe, it would have legal personality in 4 or 5 cities where they probably pay taxes by our seeing things according to the place of establishment. So, the profit tax that's huge. And that's something we don't care about. The quality of digital services and telecommunications services in Europe given the population density and investment intensity is at, not at global level, but above global level. So, in this there are and I will stress that, and I will fight for it, and real healthy economic interests and also the interests of monopolies and oligopolies that countries like ours are afraid of, and even bigger countries than ours, will come out of the hands of non-small tax revenues. I call on us all to think about it, it's not a harmless thing. Last year's meetings of the European Council also discussed the process of enlargement of the Union and of the Eastern Partnership and other topics. Croatia supports the process of further enlargement of the Union, especially when it comes to countries from our region. It's just, that's what we're interested in. So far, we've closed our eyes to some I'd say inaccuracies, but there are limits. So, we expect neighbors to be correct neighbors and we won't set the conditions in advance, I've been saying it again, and I'm going to say it again, what they've been setting us up for. But beneath some limits of correctness you can't go. As far as the Eastern Partnership is concerned, you're probably headed for difficulties that broke out suddenly at the end of last year. The programme, namely the Union's strategic programme covering six former Soviet states that are today independent, were once republics. With this programme, the Union offers its Eastern partners concrete and far-reaching support for democratic and market reforms, thus contributing to their political and economic stability through the perspective of membership. Some have accepted it, it's a difficult way, it's a bigger adventure, it's bigger demands, it takes more than man and society, and some have not chosen the easy way. These others today are unfortunately in a very difficult situation and it is not nice to look at. Unlike Lucius and Georgia, Ukraine has recently given up the signing of prepared agreements with the Union. As we can see, the consequences are here. And I repeat, we are reluctant to look at them. Discussions at meetings of the European Council on two occasions concerned immigration flows within the Union, in the context of a tragedy surrounding the Italian island of Lampedus. It's a thing that may not concern us directly but it's not bad to think about and take care of. We're a sea country, a small country with a huge shoreline. In fact, when you're looking at the Northern Mediterranean, it's just a few states. Luckily, we're not on strike one. So those who want in their despair the home of the European coasts do it before they reach Croatia. Croatia advocates the creation of strong common instruments to help the threatened Member States and calls for solidarity and support for those countries such as Italy, Spain but I spoke openly at European Council meetings, above all Malta, which is the most vulnerable there, because it is as large as Krka, there are 400 thousand inhabitants. So these countries, which are particularly faced with the problem of illegal immigrants. Of course, the absorption capacity and size of these countries varies terribly. At the end of May of this year, we have elections for the European Parliament, I call on all citizens to go to these elections because they are, above all, choices that concern us very much, financially concern us. It may not be the most important thing in the world, but it's one of the most important things. We must finally take a proactive stance on the European Union, on all its institutions and on the opportunities it offers us. These days I read the news that in Zadar, there is a professional lecture entitled "How to Get to Work in the EU?" Only one person came. Maybe it wasn't well advertised, maybe it doesn't speak out loudly about people's interests, but if the speech isn't good. We need to change that with common forces. So, who did people vote for? The legitimacy of 20% of those who went to the last election is simply too little. He's democratic, he's formally fine but he's too small. And that's a problem for all of us, not a shame, but a problem. We firmly believe that the EU can be an even better house for all its equal citizens, for all well-intentioned people who want to live in the Union and in line with its high, democratic and free-willing achievements, I would say, in accordance with the highest democratic achievements of all countries of the world, there is no more orderly and demanding place than the EU, more complicated, more solid, fiscally integrated, that is neither Japan nor the United States, and that has its logic and history much more left to itself. What we have costs and it's not easy to maintain. It's a way of life. Europe today means a constant willingness to change for the better because it is the only way we can meet the challenges of the world, so change. It is a prerequisite for our hopes of a more fulfilling and successful future. It is important that we understand that, and it is important that we finally reject the illusions of rescue solutions that will appear either from the sky or from the tunnel. No wonder, no tricks just less or more hard work. Someone's more gifted, someone's less gifted, but just hard work. This path is neither short nor painless, but we are encouraged to believe that the patience and understanding of our citizens will soon prove to be profitable by investing in better Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67008	Thank you, too, dear President of the Croatian Government. We have reported several replicas to your exhibit. Let's get this straight. The first replica of the respected representative Gordana Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67009	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, we'd like to look back on one thing. The Prime Minister said the Labour Act is crucial for reforms. I agree with that, but what I disagree with is his assessment of what happened before because in 2010 when the then government proposed a Labour Act which was also crucial for reforms, then the opposition chief Mr. Milanovic signed a request for a referendum and said he was against such a law. So, according to that logic, the opposition chief was against reforms at the same time calling on the former government not to implement the reform. So that's a certain contradiction that would be very good to explain. And one more thing I would remind Mr Milanovic that it is incorrect that the former governments did not implement reforms because entering the EU, the negotiation process, the adjustment process was the biggest reform in the history of the Croatian state, probably the most complex after the creation of the Croatian state itself and the foundation of all the key institutions of the Croatian state. So, the government's priority then, its main strategic goal was to complete the negotiations and implement all the reforms that were necessary for Croatia to meet high European standards. This was done, so then the government achieved its goal. The fact is that some of the things related to the economy at that point were not done enough, but I remind you then we did not have the support of either the SDP or the then head of the opposition because what I confirmed was against a key law that was crucial to reforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67010	Replication response, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67011	Very short. Reforms aren't what you do under pressure and someone's dictatorship. So, what Croatia has implemented is the process of adapting and harmonising to EU rules that it has to adopt with certain rhythms, translate into Croatian and vote in this House. Reform is what he did I don't know Japan 150 years ago when no one forced him to. Reform is what Germany did more than ten or ten years ago, which no EU forced it to do because it was simply a matter of further competitiveness and survival. Reform must be voluntary. In that sense, what we're trying to do right now is reform. The process of adapting or harmonising or prescribing European regulations is over, it is over. So it's a draw line practically like all other countries, it's not real reforms, it's not criticism, it's simply a fact. We can do reform now and not one. As for your criticism of our position on the Labour Act, I must admit that you are partly right, yes, I have signed it, not the first, but probably the last, and for that I was criticized with the right, with the right. So it was a rather violent attempt by the then government but it's now hard to explain that things break over their knees. We've been talking about this for over ten years. So the decision was political, very open, unlike you, I can admit it. The decision was political, was it the wisest? That's the question. But now we're going back to the same. So, are we gonna support it or not? It's not about radical cuts. It's about the little changes we need, which are in the general interest, and that's where we can stop. You can do this a hundred more times, I'll give you three thousand examples but I won't, I don't have time for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67012	Thank you very much. A new replica of the respected representative, Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67013	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. Among other things, you mentioned that you put Croatia on Europe's energy map, and that was not before. I will not repeat it to you, and I will not teach you now what we have all and what agreements we have signed on the way to the EU and implemented, of course, whose bodies we have become members of European associations, you should know that because you were close to the negotiating team at least, but I will tell you what we have done in particular. So in 2010, it was built and launched by a power line, a 400km power line towards Hungary that directly integrates alongside those that already exist in Europe's energy system and enables an open and free market in energy single Europe. In 2010, in 2010 we launched a gas interconnection towards Hungary, a high pressure gas pipeline with which Croatia gets absolute security in gas supply and based on which we can join the single gas market in Europe. These are concrete projects. Mr. Milanovic, you did it in two years. In order to put Croatia on the energy map of Europe, except the other day you bring the Gas Act that you are directly moving away from that Single and Single Card market, the Energy Card of Europe. Unless you think of empty stories of various enzymes, such as the northern, southern and middle gas pipelines, which you only deceive the public into doing something, and actually nothing happens. As far as the Labour Act is concerned, where you'll be more violent than what you're doing, and that's your direct response from the union because they're preparing a general strike for you, and you say you're doing it in some kind of peaceful atmosphere.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67014	Thank you very much. Replication response, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67015	Look, in eight years it would have been really scary if you hadn't done anything at all. So no one said that. When we talk about Europe's energy map, then I'm not talking about which associations we've become a member by pure inert, by difolt, based on the fact that we've negotiated to join the EU. It's like telling me you got citizenship by birth. Well, of course, that's what everyone gets. So there's no state that's not a member of those associations. It's no one's result, no big work, it's just pure ineration. As well as negotiations with the EU where they tell you to be willing to adopt these and those laws. So nobody criticises anyone for that reason, so choose to adopt those laws and those laws, translate them into Croatian, it's not a reform, it's a harmonisation. It's harmonisation. Okay, that's what we should do. What we're trying to do is really put the country on the energy map of Europe and I didn't say, if you've ever heard it's a finished process, but it's more ambitious than yours. Simply more ambitious, so no one said that absolutely nothing was done, what was made is petty, Croatian possibilities are much larger and those projects you look at with a laugh, I would say by meanness, and malice, in the desire that they never happen is something you can't do overnight, connect to some interconnector. These are much bigger things for Croatia. We cannot do this alone, but interests in these projects outweigh Croatian interests and Croatian capacities. These are the interests of countries such as Hungary as you mentioned, not to be dependent on only one supply route as some other countries are now, and how can that be? On the Croatian coast. Did I say it was a process? I didn't. Are we working on it? We're working. So that's not what it was about. The fact that, for example, the southern flow as a direction of supply, only the direction of gas supply, so nothing special was because of prejudice rejected by the Croatian government, is not a good thing. So Croatia should be in the main direction of the current. It's not. Because they're Russians.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67016	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67017	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, a year and a half before Croatia officially became a member of the EU, your government led Croatia. You cannot say that on July 1st of last year you and your government were not familiar with the state of public finances in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Croatian public, it wonders us that in November of last year, the Croatian government proposed a budget which she knew would already be required in January or February to go into its rebalancing since the Republic of Croatia is one of the Member States with an excessive deficit and will need to change the state budget in this sense and coordinate it in a way that the deficit is below 3%. Can you explain to us and the Croatian public why you were making a budget that you knew was not based on economic indicators either, that the expected growth that you predicted in the formation of the state budget is not sustainable, it is not accurate and that you will have to go to the rebalancing of the state budget in January or February? And which is why now that this budget is being passed and changed, when it changes, is being prepared far from the eyes of the Croatian public, away from any public debate, and you last week, you know what you said in the morning, that you would contact the experts from the opposition to help you form the state budget. So have you perhaps invited any of the experts from the opposition or from the Croatian public to help you to avoid creating this kind of mysticism about the adoption of changes in the state budget and speculation, for example that you will use the other pension column to resuscitate public finances in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67018	Replica reply, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67019	So, my life is not simple, but I'm not complaining because I've been looking for this, you're making it easier for you members, all by order of the previous government that really can't be praised in the economy. He really can't. We can't get concrete growth results yet, that's the situation. I'm not going to mess up. That's the situation. But it suits me when replicators are reported exclusively by people who have left bad results behind. Bad. I won't say it's the worst government in history because history will judge all of us. It's just bad results, it's a huge deficit, and of course you've been arguing all along, and you're making a noise, that's the logic of the debate, so at the noise, at the fight. You're asking me obvious things. So you're surprised that we're bringing the deficit to 3%, that's, of course, impossible in one year. Yeah, we have to do it, so it's a political decision. I didn't speak, and I don't think it takes expertise to make a political decision that you will increase income with and with what consequences, and which expenditure you will reduce. It's always political decisions, not political decisions, not even party squabbles, but it's simply the will. If you have any idea about government affairs, then you say I can do this, I can't do this. So you've never had a public discussion about the budget or we've ever called you out for why you don't have a public discussion about the budget. You just made that up, that's kind of news, a public debate about the budget. The labour law that, absolutely and lasted and the talks lasted for months, however it does not want to stand down at all, I'm sorry it doesn't go differently. Therefore, our decision will be as it must be. I said in my speech that we would take care to preserve the country's social stability and it would not be easy. Your support isn't expected, it's not real.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67020	Thank you very much. 4. Replication of respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67021	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, I remember very well that in your inaugural speech here in front of this House you spoke and swore to God and said that you would never mention the former government but that you would only speak about your government, but here in every report and every address you make to the public you constantly and repeatedly mention the former government, and this is what you see today. But in your report, you talked about energy opportunities and attractions that are not only a guarantee of success in the Republic of Croatia but also a lot of talk about it, but you forget that legal uncertainty and tax press actually drive investors away from the Republic of Croatia, and I believe again and again that this year you will talk about Indonesians, the Catharans, the Azerbaijani about Saudis about some bright future. You also mentioned youth programmes in the future, but you forget that in these two years, Croatia has left about 24,000 young people, meaning during your government, and that you have not offered a single measure of housing or employment, which is true. And you forget that out of 375 thousand unemployed in the Republic of Croatia, more than 50% of young people are. And in the end, not one word in your presentation did you talk about Croats in the diaspora and Croats in BiH. By denying perhaps a scholarship for Croats from the diaspora this year may best be talking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67022	The reply to the replica of the Croatian Prime Minister, respected Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67023	So you know what when the issue of Croat status in BiH is held at European Council meetings, then I will talk about it, but it will never happen because it is not in the interest of Croats in BiH they can be helped in a way that has never been done before. So the less I talk about, the more I try to do projects, we don't waste more on 50 friends, households, godmothers than we concentrate on a small number of visible projects in a very transparent way, and at this point, even more than the maximum Croatia can do. And I'm not in constant conversations, constant contacts with uninterrupted contacts with the leaders of the Croats in BiH who mostly come from your party, brotherly or sisterly parties heard no complaints. We keep asking them what they need but we don't advertise too much because I don't go there to get votes. I don't remember these people once in four years when I'm supposed to pick up a handful of votes, I'm not going there with those interests. So I'm going with interest even more than interest, desire and urge to do something. And I call on those who are active and lively in European bodies to do this intelligently when they advocate the interests of Croats in BiH not to do any harm.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67024	Thank you very much. The 5th replica of the respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67025	Mr. President of the Croatian Government, you spoke of fear. There's fear in Croatia. In his opening speech, Roosevelt said in 1933, "Fearing is the only thing we have to be afraid of." Perhaps the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are afraid of the practices of this Croatian government, perhaps that fear stems from the practice of the government. You've talked about another segment very important, which is the Labour Act, and you've asked who's in the interest of shortening workers' rights, jeopardizing workers. I am now asking you, who's in the interest of some countries being more neoliberal, who's in the interest of some countries being more democratic, who's in the interest of some countries treating workers worse? Small powerful groups. There are certainly many countries that are rich in natural resources but are not related to citizens, for example, like one Norway. So I'm also asking myself, who in Croatia is in the interest of doing this Law on Labour against which certain provisions are, not the whole Labour Act, and it's certainly a good thing that you're right that it's for a debate that reduces labour rights despite almost 400 thousand people getting fired very easily, and we see every day more and more people are on the market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67026	The reply to the replica of the Croatian Prime Minister, respected Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67027	I have to admit, I didn't get the best idea whether you and I were getting along or not. You state as an example of Norway, which is twice as rich as the United States, not Germany, a country that in the next 100 years I don't have to do anything, can only take a day at a time from its sovereign fund and can live twice as much as we do without doing anything. It's not an example at all, it's an example of Germany that's a big one that's not a top-tech force like America, but it's a high-, medium-level technology power, let's say that in the last 15 or 20 years I've known a new chemical entity in pharmaceuticals, so that's what other countries are doing. So Germany was in one delicate state 10 years ago and was changing. And I said that although it is available to all of you, we will translate if there is a need for changes to German labour law and social system 10 years ago. So let's see what's wrong with that menu today that's acceptable to us and what's not. It's not any brutal neoliberal system, it's a system that's allowed more jobs but it's open to say, it's done more and it's earned the same, the wages are stagnated. It's Germany, Germany isn't London City, stability is higher. So we have to choose, this is a political decision, this is a political decision, nothing else. Are we going to do I don't know 70% of what Germany and Austria did 10 years ago and today they're competitive. But if they don't change where the guarantee is that in 10 years, Germany will be in front of France. These are all rich countries, high levels and social income per capita and social security and public spending, huge public spending, it costs. So either we change things or we don't change anything, we pretend it's this good. Why did people get fired, ato, because employers are evil? No, it's hard for people to work, not for tax press, because in Croatia taxes were easily understood, it's tax order, it's state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67028	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the replicas. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the Club of Representatives of the Independent List and Honorary Representative Damir Cain. My colleague Grubisic is gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67029	Your Honor, Mr. President, Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament. This is like we heard for the first time in the Parliament and discussed reports from the European Council meeting. In principle, there is nothing to add about these reports. So we have two, 19 and 20 December, that is, the one of 8 November, and that is to say, among other things, that there were talks about a common, security defence policy, economic and social policy, economic, monetary union, migration flows, enlargement and the process of stabilisation and accession, external relations. So there was an emphasis on Syria, the Central African Republic, the Eastern Partnership, that is, Ukraine, other issues, which were discussed, I quote on the digital economy, innovation, services, economic and social policy, economic and monetary union, the Eastern Partnership, again in Ukraine and clear migration. However, what is most important, what I have managed to get out of these reports simply, realizes that by March 2014, the European Union will propose a directive on taxation of interest income on savings. It's a done quote. And I kind of translate it to myself as a tax on interest deposited money at our business banks. Deposits of Croatian legal or natural persons are due if I am not mistaken somewhere around 180 billion kuna. So if the state introduced that kind of tax on that basis, say, you could get a billion kuna. Which can cause the recommendations remains to be seen. Those who have nothing to spare will not find it difficult to fall, others will protest bitterly. Although there are those who say it would probably be the least painful tax. It is clear that opportunities should be monitored separately in developed countries of the European Union and in countries such as Croatia. It is not the same to run economic policy, we have heard it now in these replicas, in one Germany or Belgium, not to talk about one Norway, or on the other hand in one Croatia or Greece. Right in this situation we're in, we're alone. From this situation, we'll also be pulling ourselves. The other points that I've mentioned here I don't think I might think, I'm going to say something about every one so crucial, for example. defence policy, the fight against terrorism and the strengthening of the European defence industry. I don't think that's controversial. I'd rather hear about Europe or NATO out of Afghanistan. It's too bad our potentials are kind of limited when we talk about it. Sometimes, I don't know, ex-Yugoslavia when it comes to the military industry was 8.9 forces or exporters of weapons in the world, or that military technology, so we can say the most technology. Today, unfortunately, we are who we are, military dwarfs. Unlike the former head of the Chamber of Commerce, if Tito went into a safari to lions, leopards or similar beasts. Then he would sell the tanks of Djura Djakovic to Egypt at the time of Naser. I don't know, when an Aswan dam was being built, then he would sell the turbines to Rade Končar, and he would find the job of building a settlement, hospitals, etc. for the hydro power plant, and today we're where we are. We have two, three factories, let's call it military equipment, not enough to serve our military industry, but well, it's still moving. A clear emphasis on what we are talking about today is economic and social policy and perhaps this very youth unemployment. Croatia has lost 177,000 jobs since the 2008 crisis. Where did we lose them? We lost them in the real sector. In the same period, 30 to 40,000 people were employed. Where? Upgrade. We in the upgrade of 2014 compared to 1990 have cca. 100,000 more employees than it was back then. And that costs Croatian taxpayers' budgets. It doesn't matter if it's local self-government or state, at this point with material costs somewhere around 15 billion kuna. And on the other hand, we have about 500 grand less employees than we were in the '90s. And that's why this second measure, crediting small and medium-sized economies, which is also said in these reports, is actually the key. Clearly, in a transparent way, not in a Balkan way, but this is also true of hiring mostly small ones. We have roughly in Croatia this situation today that we have 100 large economic operators who employ over 500 employees, all the way there to Konzum or what it's called, it doesn't matter, Agrokor who employs 40,000 people. These 100 large business entities earn about 50% of their income in the Croatian economy, have 25% of their employees and pay about 25% of their taxes to the state. We have 1,000 medium-sized enterprises that make 25% of their income, have 25% of their employees in total and pay 25% of their taxes somewhere. And then we have hundreds of thousands of those small business entities, from crafts to a limited liability society that generates 25% of the income, have 50% of the employees and pay to the state, which is normal because they have the most workers, 50% of the taxes. As far as this economic monetary policy is concerned, I would place an emphasis on deposit insurance from these reports, which was also discussed at these conferences. Exactly, if someone intends to tax interest, then they must protect those deposits, it must guarantee the safety of them. Croatia was fortunate, along with the problems of Croatian banks, that we did not engage in this one banking crisis. True, at this point in the Republic of Croatia about 11 business banks operate negatively. Some of them ended up in bankruptcy, winning them less 40% than in 2012, but we did avoid the earthquakes they had when it came to the banking crisis and some Western countries. No matter how adequate the capital is, as the bankers call it, about 13.15% it's threatened loans, as it is, the banks are still not at risk. And that's why it must be important to have a relationship with this small economy that is most endangered. The fact is, from day to day, they have more and more, and the fact is also that small business entities have less and less every day. Here in these reports there is also a high price of telecommunications, then it is about the banking union, etc. It would be the same if we were already talking about this banking union, perhaps it would be good to discuss evening Croatian banks' interest rates with these mothers of banks bought by Croatian banks in the '90s. I don't think there's much issue here, because there's nothing to be disputed about in these reports about the European Council meeting, but when we talk about the European Union, it's interesting to have one document about the collapse or better said the decline of credit rating and one sentence from this agency from Washington... that Croatia will, in the future, maybe this year, invest more money in European funds, but will withdraw from European funds. If I'm not mistaken, in 2013, we paid cca 270 million euros, we withdrew about 276 million euros, somewhere 6 or 7 million euros more than we paid. This year we're paying nearly 4 billion kuna, and theoretically we could withdraw 7.5 billion kuna, which is clearly impossible, but this could really make us pay more than we're going to use or withdraw. If we withdraw less money, it can tell us badly because I don't know what the budget will look like at this point, but I can tell that some investments in the Republic of Croatia will be cut in front of us in the year. When we talk about the European Union's resources, we still have a number of problems here. It's not just how these programs are written, it's not how project documentation should look, it's our problem in my court, which is what our priorities are when it comes to our money are approved by Brussels. I almost dare say that with those 3.5 or 4 billion kunas, we would have had better control of ourselves, better use of that money, better choose or value the priorities of the Republic of Croatia. I'm not going to say that it's a second-rate character, but it's not even the first-class thing that we're dominated by right now. Imagine when a city or some county suggests building a golf course, golf course by European means. So who does that help? Well, that can only help large capital. That insensitivity I would say a visibly economic moment or I don't know what to call it, it's simply incomprehensible to me. Either to build some door at the entrance to Istria 4-5 or I don't know how many thousands of square meters that really are in front of something concrete, real life not that it's second-rate but absolutely unnecessary. I think that Croatia should determine 50 or 100 key projects and these projects should not be two, two, three, five county candidates and simply insist on them, as it has insisted over many years on building the Peljega Bridge and I want to believe that this is now ahead of us, that this is a done deal and that this investment will soon begin and be realized. For Croatia, it is extremely important, it is my court, which is what Serbia has also started negotiations on membership in the European Union. True, this was not about Serbia, it was about Ukraine, and that there was a European attitude towards Serbia, that I should paraphrasise President Josipovic. In one word, Croatia must not treat Serbia as Slovenia has treated Croatia. We have a series of open questions, none of which escapes with Serbia. They'll say they've got us, too, it doesn't matter, but it's normal. It's good, the businessmen cooperate, invest, trade, and there's all kinds of open issues like the processing of crimes, the missing, the respect of minorities here, there, the charges of genocide still get better. And at the end of one sentence higher than anything the Prime Minister spoke of. It's the excessive deficit procedure that the prime minister, the president, is about to discuss today. No, the president, I'm sorry, Minister of Finance, the Minister of Finance, so I don't mind someone talking to me in Brussels. So in these four pension funds, we have what? 58 billion kuna. Should the second column be abolished? No, I don't. That's right. If those funds were to go back to the first pillar, I think that this would be at an annual level of about 5 billion kuna. The deficit minus those 5 billion would be exactly 4.7% this year, but it's better to lower part of the expenditure and combine it with the benefited internship that some presses are talking about today. I think it also suits pension funds because later they'll start paying their pensions. But the problem is that these funds are, in fact, aside from government bonds, well, Podravka and several other large companies are not investing money in something that is life-threatening and it really was about energy or some other jobs. And for the end, yes, exactly. I agree with the Prime Minister. The state should be reorganised by the state administration through state agencies. That I agree that the judiciary should also reorganise what was at the last session of the Parliament, reorganize health care, education, but God radically needs to reorganize local self-government because the situation with 556 units doesn't know who at this point is of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67030	Thank you very much. We have a set of replicas. The first replica of the respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67031	Dear colleague, you have said one claim that it is not the same to run economic policy in Norway or in Croatia or in Greece. That is true, because in the 1990s it is certain that Norway was not in the same situation as Croatia and because of the war, but also because of the privatisation robbery. Norway has not been robbed systematically for 8 years or 6 years during Sanader and is very difficult under such conditions and inherit economic policy and lead it and generally run it in Croatia under such conditions economic policy. Because there may be one joke, an anecdote. You know what the Greek tragedy is based on? It is based on bribery, and the Croatian tragedy is based on bribery and corruption. In the 1960s, Japan and then Yugoslavia were at almost the same level of economic development. Then Japan invested enormous money in education, technology and progressed. What are we doing today? It is certain that for 20 years, the conduct of the wrong economic policy, the promotion of imports, the shut-down before the prime minister said that it is difficult for us to work. It's not hard working with us. I agree in one segment with Mr. Linic. In Croatia we have a very bad managerial staff and a group of very bad company owners.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67032	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67033	... In the 1960s, Japan and Croatia were at the same level of development, I don't know. [[Specially enabled.]] But I do know that ex-Yugoslavia was out there with no intention of defending anyone in the '50s had the highest growth rate. And it's almost amazing that over this one period of, say, ten, fifteen or twenty years, one energy base was simply built, that I don't know how many millions of apartments were built, that simply one school infrastructure, health infrastructure, tourist infrastructure was laid down precisely in that period until the seventy-fiveth, eighty years, that simply the country from one lag became medium-developed and so on. True, it is not the same to lead Croatia and Norway, it is not the same to lead Croatia, Austria, I do not know Italy etc. And I agree that Norway, as you yourself mention, had no war, Norway had no privatisation, but God had not had as many kleptomaniacs as there were in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67034	Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67035	Oh, thank you. Comrade Cain, you said that unlike the 1990s, almost 500,000 people were employed in Croatia today. Unfortunately, the data is even more dramaticly poor. In the 1990s, 2 million people worked in the Republic of Croatia, while 655 000 Croatian citizens retired. At this moment, a million and 350 thousand people are working in the Republic of Croatia, while a million and 200 thousand Croatian citizens are retired. So the difference between the number of employees in the Republic of Croatia and the 1990s is unfortunately the decline of 650 000 employees from the 1990s to this moment today. It's a dramatic fall. And not to mention, no one more seriously explained the structure of the workforce that was the 1990s and the structure of the workforce as it is present in Croatia today. Also, Prime Minister Milanovic mentioned the removal of parafiscal duties and how the government abolished about 52 parafiscal charges and thus relieved the Croatian economy of nearly 400 million kuna. However, at the moment you add parafiscal pressure to Croatian citizens, you take back those 400 million kunas in a year to the same Croatian citizens through the price of water that they will pay only in one year. When you introduce mandatory licensing to these Croatian citizens, when you introduce a mandatory pesticide course to Croatian farmers and take 150 million kunas from them, and in fact by a series of measures that we are actually carrying out, in fact, what kind of parafiscal imposings we are partially liberating the economy, but we are also pressing on Croatian citizens and consumers. And by doing so, we are also reducing the competitiveness of the labour market and the very price of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67036	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67037	Yes, parafiscal imposes here at least we agree all should be abolished or reduced at the very least whether it's local self-government or whether it's a state. And I agree, too, we have several serious problems that we have not brought ourselves into, which is why the economic situation is, among other things, the way it is. In the first place, it's definitely a war, and that's where it's supposed to start. This led to a decrease in jobs by almost one quarter compared to the prewar year 1990, which led to today having a million and 200 thousand pensioners, either leading to or leading to some 380 thousand unemployed. But there's one more moment to take care of. In 2014 we have 100,000 employees more in state and local upgrades than we had in 1990. I've said before that taxpayers, it doesn't matter if it's a state budget or local budgets, costs about 15 billion kuna at an annual level. Imagine what could be done, normally if the state cost it, it's not the same thing to run a state or one under the quotes of the "socialist" republic. But imagine what could be done with 15 billion kunas on the annual level. Well, it could be built every year on a 200-point or 300-mile highway under some normal conditions, not the kleptomaniac, or under the terms of how it was done from 2000 to 2003. So every year we could have one of those new shares, or we could have employees of 20, 30, or 50,000 new jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67038	A new replica, the esteemed vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67039	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Your Honor, you're speaking of this subject, of course, you're talking about a whole series of problems that aren't really closely related to this subject. And similar to the prime minister who read his report nicely and made promises what the government will do as if at the beginning of the mandate, however, it seems to me that one problem should be discussed here, which is that today 7 months after Croatia's member of the EU in public life actually has no real awareness that decisions taken in EU bodies directly affect the lives of every citizen and, in fact, very little is known in public. The government has decided not to publish the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia before the meetings, as I imagine, because there should be some hand-in-hand in these discussions, however, the fact is that the Croatian public almost does not receive information about decisions in EU bodies at all. I am being raised by the government every day by the issue of ideological, secular and these questions about what is being decided in the EU, how our representatives represent Croatia's positions that I am stressing again concern every citizen in fact do not know much. Of course, it can be said that documents are available through EU databases, it can be said that some things are available but let's be realistic how many of our citizens really have that availability, how many of our citizens know enough languages to be able to get information qualified? And it seems to me that this is something that should be debated because these data should be easily made available to Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67040	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67041	Well, I tried to talk about these two reports. What can certainly affect, Mr. Vice-President of this House, as you say in the life of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, I have tried and particularly apostrophe and it concerns the following that by March 2014. The EU intends to propose a directive on taxation of interest income on savings. That's what I'm doing to myself as recommending the introduction of interest taxes. I also told the speaker that the deposits of Croatian natural or legal persons at the moment, if I am not mistaken, amount to around 180 billion kuna. And if the state decides to raise certain funds there may be the easiest way to get some money, it will create some recommendations for those who are saving, it certainly won't, and on that basis an additional billion kuna can be made. Although I'd be happier if that tax wasn't introduced either.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67042	A new replica, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67043	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, you spoke about Croatia's 2013 application of around 270m euros and the withdrawal of 276m euros. So, 6 million euros we're in some kind of let's say surplus. The Standard & Poor's Agency saw it well when it said that we were weakly exploited EU accession. It's most likely that's what it was about. But what I particularly wanted to point out in your debate is the debate over two things, which is the Pelješki bridge that we know when this government came forward, so the adoption of power in the state of Croatia through the choice of legal ones was a big hack, a cry in the way of resolving the traffic towards Dubrovnik just on the idea of the Peljega Bridge. We know that it went to the BIH, negotiated the corridor through Neum, etc. All of a sudden we're celebrating even though you said yourself the dream of the Peljega Bridge. Yeah? It's interesting that the chronology of such a way... Government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what I wanted to say lastly is that this is the accession of our neighbours to the EU even though we know well that before 2020, according to the European Parliament's decision, there is no new EU accession, it is possible to rise as long as it wants, before 2020, and what hurts me in particular is that we do not mention the foreign minister at all, and here is the prime minister today in his speech that we have significant unresolved, territorial issues with the Republic of Serbia. It's like we're hiding it, like we're putting it under the carpet. Well, you're in your speech, you didn't mention it, and it really hurts. We've got tens of thousands of acres across the Danube, and we've got a charengrad ad that's being ordered by the Bačka Palanca Police and not by the locals, what about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67044	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67045	Yes, as far as we have the opportunity to follow in public French consultants have recommended this Pelječki bridge as the most optimistic solution and we just want to believe that this investment will be as soon as possible in the integration of the south, the north I don't know how to express and move. Of course it all costs, clearly the Croatian state does not have that money at the moment. The figures of 250-300 million euros are mentioned, and I want to believe that the EU will not be betrayed, but that at least in that part it will simply recognise Croatian priorities and give us back what we pay at the annual level. Yes, where we need to express one concern that we will not be able to invest more in the EU or the EU this year than we will withdraw from the EU. This year, Croatia is paying about 4 billion kuna. It's huge money. I said, after the speaker, that if they were to dispose themselves, they would manage this money to do much better, but when they set priorities for us, and I mentioned that any kuna that will return, which will be parallelly fertilized with European funds, is absolutely useful but that it should also be determined that I don't know 50th or 100th of might be a priority for which a national consensus from municipalities, cities, counties and simply insist that we don't have any golfers, say in Poreč, which can only be in the interest of large capital that our citizens will probably never come to hit that ball.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67046	Joseph Leco. Honorable representative Goran Maric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67047	Thank you very much. You spoke about entrepreneurs, the structure of entrepreneurship, the structure of total income, and only for the sake of clarity of images of the situation between entrepreneurship and of Croatian entrepreneurs, several additions and clarifications and warnings to changes that occurred in the last 14 years and to which economic policy has not responded. The great so-called The entrepreneurs in Croatia used to be a thousand, today 348, 0.36%, 0.36% of all entrepreneurs earn total income 48.9% and employ only 32.9% but 348 entrepreneurs and 0.36 total number of entrepreneurs receive 54% of total Croatian profits achieved in economic activity. In the crisis it was they who fired 100,000 people and the profit of 99-2007 was 31 thousand under employment and since 2008-2012. 42,000 kuna per employee. Winning large compared to small per employee's profits has been an average of 78.8% over the past 14 years. In 2012, the profits of the small per employee were 27 thousand kuna and the profits were large per employee of 67,000 kuna. Total GDP gains are 10.3%. Isn't that proof that the Croatian economy is actually a cartel economy to which economic policy is blind? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67048	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67049	I don't know what to add. There's nothing to add here. I fully agree and thank you for this precision. When I was talking about getting it, I said 50%, I didn't say 54. When I talked about income, I said 50%, not 48.9%, but it's just the intensity of my speech exactly what you're saying. I agree completely and thank you for the supplement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67050	Honored representative Stjepan Milinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67051	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Cain, I had some thinking that I've met you well over the past six years when we've been hanging out here at home, but then today I'm surprised because I'm saying here's our colleague Caine who's European thinking and then I don't see him anywhere, but now I can't see Caine anywhere, I can't see him anymore, I can't see him anywhere, but you've agreed with each other. But I have one other thing that I noticed in your debate where you said and expressed some doubts about withdrawing funds from the EU. And in that sense, this particular place should be said to be constantly talking about the opportunities in agriculture, the possibilities of large winners mostly small, young and I want to say that I am glad to hear it because in this area I unfortunately know only losers in recent years. Well, here's only if we say that yesterday was submitted to this, the European Commission's programmes were handed over yesterday, so if we give them time to go a little bit, which they will have to spend to bring, to accept it, and then the competitions are coming up, so it could be about nine, ten months at least, and in that sense I'm in a lot of doubt too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67052	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67053	Yeah, we're getting to know each other. Me and you and I are probably gonna get to know each other or rather, we're gonna get to know each other. Don't worry, it wasn't Jakovčić Kajina who skipped or jumped me, but if he'd jumped and jumped the Istrians, that's not what I need to doubt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67054	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. Now it's the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS's turn. Here you go, dear MPs. From the bench, from the bench, it's not written from the bench, it's not admitted. [[Do you know who he skipped? The HDZ with which he agreed in the local elections and which supported him in the second round./]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67055	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. I'm going to try to shorten my debate because this is exactly the time to start another debate, a round table organised by the HDSSB on constitutional changes. So I ask that in the future we try to coordinate when the topics are this important and at the plenary session, that other jobs that are outside the assembly are consistent with that, and I promised to come. So this is certainly a small historic moment that we are discussing regarding the first Report on the participation of representatives of the Croatian government as the 28th member of the EU in the European Council. So, a small historic moment where we're going to discuss these reports in different ways, so there are two. I must conclude that, in accordance with the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government in European Affairs, they have been submitted in time, that they are a bit recessional, therefore very shrubs, i.e. very smut and short reports, so I suggest that this is my first observation for the future, that they are more thorough because I assume that the President of the Croatian Government did not only participate in the debate on migration and digitalisation as stated in this report. So, it only briefly points out, but I assume that it discussed and delivered the views of the Government, i.e. the Republic of Croatia and other important issues, especially those of the economy, so on economic issues, social issues and all those which were discussed at these two sessions that lasted two days. So, let's remind ourselves of the law, I think it would be good to remind ourselves in this debate of the law, of the government's powers, but also of the powers of the Croatian Parliament. I remind you that unfortunately we passed the law in the last few moments, so he was in effect on June 28th if I remember correctly last year, and on July 1st, we became a member of the EU and my remark was that we had to pass the law before, that we had to play before, learn, as we are now learning. So through the debate and this report we are still learning as we generally learn to be members of such a large and important association as the EU. It is therefore important to understand here in Parliament the position of the Republic of Croatia. We are 28 members, but now that the EU has 28 Member States, we are absolutely and completely equal. And in our discussions and in our positions and in our initiatives, and of course in the implementation of everything that we have signed, I think that we should put ourselves in such a position and be in one part, and sometimes we see it and it's very clearly recognizable, we must or some of us, not all deprive ourselves of something that I could actually call part of the subjective mentality, so we are absolutely and completely equal. We have transferred part of sovereignty, but we have the right to propose, make decisions and defend our national interests. The first seven months unfortunately passed in many unnecessary discussions. Imagine, for example, that we spent 6 months in a debate about, or 5 months, so since we joined the EU, that we had spent 5 months in heated debates about how to formulate the 2014 budget. We knew clearly what our obligations were and what our rights were and what our frameworks were. So, 3%, 60%, we knew all that a long time ago when we started negotiations. That here we spent 5 months discussing how to reduce the deficit in 2014 rather than how to co-operate on a European arrest warrant with EU member states. But that's the past now, and that's the problem we seem to have solved, and that's what we need to learn about. What is also, in some way, a historic moment right now when we are discussing this report, and obviously nothing is by chance, that is my view, that nothing is by chance in life, so here is how it happened, and that we are going to discuss these reports, and that, on the other hand, in the European Commission, that is, in Brussels, our finance minister is discussing the opening of this big and important mechanism, which we are going to talk about a lot more, an excessive deficit. And that is why it would be good if we had used the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government until the end of the day to demand that what the Minister of Finance would propose to the European Commission or what he would propose as measures and what will be envisaged in the recent rebalancing of the state budget, which are measures, what are these measures, I do not think it is good to listen to the announcements of the first vice-president and foreign minister who says, the Government found a solution, and that the Croatian Parliament really does not know but nothing at all. So personally, I would be very pleased if the government had found a solution and if the government had firmly held the strings in hand and if we could really discuss the rebalancing of a budget that would not rest additionally on the back of citizens as announced and that a solution was found that is quite certain that the announcement will not rest on the back of entrepreneurs or entrepreneurship climates. But I don't think it's a good idea for people working in the European Commission to know about it first, and we don't know anything about it right now in Parliament. Certainly the fact that in his report, the Prime Minister said actually some things that should be the future, but these reports should talk about how and how they discussed themselves in the European Council and, for example, what our views were I repeat, about economic and social policy, economic and monetary union, enlargement and the process of stabilisation and accession, there are literally one or two sentences in the report. So it's an extremely important topic, and we've talked a lot about it during the negotiations. We have made one decision here in the Croatian Parliament, and the document of the Croatian Parliament has been translated on that no bilateral issue if I remember well what we have with our neighbours that will negotiate or start negotiating to join the EU we will not put an obstacle to their European path. However, this is one principle declaration about details of how decisions should be made in the Croatian Parliament first and about the issue of borders because we have had this painful experience with the Republic of Slovenia but also on issues of war damage, as well as on issues of those still missing and their families. Equally, I think that we should have been a more comprehensive report is not about energy issues and certainly about migration flows. But it says that the Prime Minister said something about it on the Council. So the procedure in Brussels began, on the basis of this procedure we will soon discuss budget rebalancing and will be very interesting here and Mr Milanović mentioned the Labour Act, some reform measures from the past were mentioned, it will be very interesting to listen to discussions on changes to the Labour Act and how any of us will now position themselves at this time. I am pleased that the Prime Minister has in some way admitted that at times when the trade unions took action to sign a referendum against amendments to the Labour Act, he said he had made a mistake. It is certainly humanly wrong, it is good to admit a mistake and most important to find ways to correct mistakes. There's only one fact that we've lost time and I'm not saying it would be much better, but certainly some things would have been different if we had changed the Labour Act then. Here is my colleague and colleagues, as I said I will shorten the debate because I am leaving for another job, I think that the debate on amendments to the Constitution is as important as I think there is less hope that, at this point in time, we change the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in a way that we should because one part of the topic remains open to Croatia's entry into the EU when we are all, and I repeat do not know what time we are here, decided to facilitate the conditions for a referendum in order to be absolutely sure that this big and huge job we have invested in the negotiations will eventually be circled by the majority of Croatian voters to become a member of the EU. Since then, however, much has changed, and I still think it would be good to make it clear how the referendum can be implemented in Croatia and on what topics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67056	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67057	So there's only one explanation I don't know if it's necessary, but since this is the first such exposé and this is the first session on this subject, the distinguished representative said I wasn't talking about what I was talking about. Therefore, meetings of the European Council or, firstly, the European Council is not a legislative body, it provides a highway, it is politically directed but formal acts are adopted in Council formats. So without the European Council, nothing goes but it is not a formal legal body. And when the European Treaties are amended, the European Council is not a legislative body, and even when regulations, directives, framework decisions, such as on the European Council's arrest warrant, are not a legislative body. It's the most important body but I speak fourth time, five times is not a legislative body. Why does it matter? This is important because everything that I and others say there is actually in some way discretion, of course not to you, not to the MPs, not to the Croatian public, because ultimately the attitudes we represent are public. It is not a composite there, but because the final documents, therefore, that is, the conclusions of the European Council of European consulates, as you see them published, are giving birth through a long period of gestation to, in the end, look completely different, often completely different from what is expected. What does that mean? Yes, one document, the conclusion of the European Council is being prepared through the formats of the Council of Ministers responsible for specific issues. Migration, economy, banking, so ECOFIN, general affairs, foreign affairs. And then you get on the table materials and blueprints, or draft Council conclusions. The one who came to the table at four in the afternoon after 15 hours of discussion comes out differently, significantly different, as if ministers had never discussed it, as if they had not agreed on ECOFIN, as if they were not ministers of the same prime ministers who have, or prime ministers, unilateral governments, bilateral governments, multilateral governments. Why am I saying that? Because it's a terribly complicated process that, of course, doesn't have to be mystified, so say, nobody understands that, you have nothing to ask. A series of issues that the debate can last for hours are ping-pong between two or three countries where other countries really don't have to have any interest. But you can't go any further until it's cleared up. So it's one of the most complicated forms of consensus that politics and political organisations know in the civilized world at all, that's how it works. What happened in these two years, from the beginning of the fiscal compact discussed in January and after January, which was agreed at the end of 2011 but then in early 2012, was definitely elaborated until the day of today, it is a whole series of things. But what I want to point out here, so individual states and governments heads of state, heads of state and government on the European Council are kind of being digested and coming to the external circle of users by means of a mediator. It's not transmitted, it's not recorded. Therefore, there must be a certain level of trust that of course I mean the person representing the state there really defends the interests of the state and what we have in some way agreed. Individual country models are very different. Somewhere in parliament is really coming to every question. The example of the finance minister you cited. In some countries, indeed, what the finance minister is going to discuss tomorrow would be subject to discussion today with the commission in 15 committees and at the tide. Denmark, now, what would we accomplish, so specifically in this case. The European Commission has laid down conditions for which it has not asked us. We had contacts, they gave us three years to consolidate. So to get close to something that's optimistic, not from the first, so not this year, that's not possible. They gave us three years, they could give us two years. So, it's all the result of a long-standing torture, but it's our job, negotiating to get our country to the best of terms. Therefore, the previous decision in the Assembly on how we will go towards the commission can be a form of ultimatum towards the commission. You can interpret it that way. What's best? What is best when we advocate large projects where the Pelješki bridge is a project of 200, 250 million euros. It is financially small compared to everything Croatia has built, it is small compared to a billion-euro railway project. However, is it therefore the form of a struggle for national interests that you press the Commission or those who make a decision through the media? It's not. It can only hurt us. Therefore, those who want to like their town, their village, their family and live in the area should think about it, it can harm Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67058	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67059	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, I don't think there's too much to banish the story of the excessive deficit, the European Commission is giving us frameworks. And how are we going to get to those frames is our thing. If we're not able, then they'll impose certain things on us and that's a fact. So the European Commission has given us over the three years that we should have a dynamic budget reduction and a budget deficit. What measures Croatia will take, which reform procedures to do so in accordance with the positive regulations that we have complied with the European Union, is the fundamental thing of Croatia. So, here, let's say this afternoon, we have a debate on three pension funds and, at the same time, it's buzzing in Croatia that the main adjustment regarding the income side is something relating to pension funds. So it would be a logical thing to discuss pension funds today and not to discuss it today, tomorrow or in 10 days, through some kind of amendment to the government. So it's something that would be positively discussed. And secondly, you are all the time trying to baffle the Croatian process of entering the European Union. Croatia is the only country that has to comply and implement legislation. And another thing, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, do not forget that Croatia had a 0.8% deficit in 2008 and a 28% share of public debt in GDP. These are the facts recognised by international financial institutions, although that year the World Bank also awarded some awards to Croatia, and you can't budge it, you can't deny it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67060	The reply to the replica was respected Zoran Milanovic, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67061	I don't make fun of it. I don't make fun of it. Yeah, and what happened after 2008? The crisis we've adapted to how? [[Intruder: Crisis.]] By building a deficit. Anyone can do that. So, at times when money was cheap and when everyone came to it, and even those you wouldn't give it to in common sense, I don't mean Croatia but others, they were all great, they were all great. Then came a little stricter professor, so there missed the chance of doing what had to be done. I do not bagatelise and banalise as you have said the excessive deficit procedure and there are no positive regulations there, it is a matter of agreement and negotiations in which the European Commission, you can now gesture but these are simply facts that everyone knows about. So, I don't have to teach anyone here, and I don't want to teach them any lessons. It's just that if you don't fit into their standards that are quite arbitrary, but for anything similar, then you'll have problems. You can deal with them if you make such a decision, so it is not true that it is entirely up to us to do what we are going to do and what we are going to do. It's a matter of agreement. Of course, it's a matter and a negotiation. So let's say we say tomorrow we'll cancel the public sector pay, here we go. It's that super-saving thing. Perhaps the commission would tell us, though, you're dealing with the social consequences yourself. You want people to work for free? But what measure is that? So these are political decisions in which the other side, conditionally said the other side, assuming that we are all sides, but yet the other side must be convinced that it is sustainable, which means that you must reduce both expenditures and increase revenues. It wouldn't be possible, and it says it in the guidelines, it's quite clear that we just accumulate income artificially and say it's that, we're great, the expenditure stays the same. So both. As for pension pillars, of course we have no idea what some countries have done, what some in Croatia have often called for, to abolish the second pillar and transfer that money to the budget. That's out of the question. So there are some minor corrections possible. What the Hungarians did...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67062	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67063	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister. The decisions of the European Council, the European Commission, the European Parliament by impacting Croatia's future, but also the citizens of Croatia, are the same, if not more important and significant than the laws we make in the Croatian Parliament. The awareness of this is unfortunately still not sufficiently extended in Croatia, as well as the fact that in Croatian media the decision on Strasbourg and Brussels does not have the same treatment as here in Zagreb. I would like to join the invitation of the prime ministers of the Republic of Croatia to come out in May in the largest number of elections for the European Parliament, because in these elections, as well as in parliamentarys when they decide on the future government, they decide who and how they will represent their interests both in Strasbourg and in Brussels where the future of each member, including every citizen of Europe, is greatly tailored. This team more this report, the Prime Minister's first report also has this dimension of... significance. However, some discussions so far have been as if it were the government's annual report under Article 128. The Rules of Procedure and that is why they were more concerned with Croatia than with what is on the agenda. In the introduction, the prime minister said that we in Europe, in the European Union, are equal, that we are partners and that we are not used or not used in blackmail. This is probably one of the reasons why, at all points in the vote, Croatia voted in favour, unlike other countries that often use the possibility of voting against. And instead of taking great care of it, I'll have 16 questions prepared for the prime minister if I get there for the time being. The digital economy, both in written form and in introduction, and this is a good thing that it is apostrophe, a warning of a single market for a fast-growing digital economy with a large profit, a profit that is achieved and a question of profit taxation. We really need to consider this question, I have not heard whether Croatia already has an opinion on what our proposal will be, but in that market, large food is small, and if we do not have the right answer, we will indeed lose some profit in this large common market. I don't know, it might look premature at this point, but I mean in such common markets, European taxes as one of the models to avoid the concentration of tax payments in five cities or five Member States. Economic and social policy. The European Council called for the speedy preparation of youth employment measures, a guarantee for young people. And now we come to absurdity that both in the European Council and also in the European Parliament, SDP and HDZ representatives are voting against amendments to increase funding for young people's employment. And the proportion of young people in Croatian unemployment is up to 48%, according to some data. So that was another question why we asked ourselves so we didn't advocate an increase in those funds. Thirdly, the European Commission will carry out a detailed analysis of the economic situation towards different indicators relating to the labour market, goods, public administration efficiency, vocational education and social inclusion. This component, i.e. the indicator of vocational education for Croatia, is considered extremely important and important because it also refers to teaching, so something Europe has European... teaching. And the question is our willingness and development of the system of vocational education and teaching that we nearly destroyed 15 years ago, the question is whether the ministry in charge of this part of the job has also been given the task of this new measurement indicator and what we are thinking of doing. Fourthly, one way to strengthen the social dimension is to coordinate economic and social policy, strengthen and social dialogue at both national and European level. In this context, you mentioned the Labour Act and Germany several times. I'm not going to spread the subject today, but I have three applications. First, when the Labour Act is being discussed in the Assembly, I invite you to be present, to hear all the arguments that parts of the law cannot give you support. And if you are going to organise a translation of German changes, please let them certainly translate a system of collective bargaining that is worth in Germany right after that reform, how many collective agreements they have destroyed, how many mutilated and how many new regulations as one foreign act, whether employers and how many in the coalition contract of Democrats and Social Democrats are agreed on by a minimum captain. It seems to me to be EUR 2.17 in Croatia at the moment. The heads of state or government also stressed the importance of a rapid completion of the banking union, yet an important step towards the end of the banking union. Prime Minister who are the reasons why Croatia supports the banking union project, possible Croatia's membership in the banking union was not clear in the opening explanation. And in the end, who in Croatia will make decisions on Croatia's eventual membership in the banking union of the Government or the Parliament? The joint statement by heads of state or government has been attached to the conclusions of the European Council, which has been the case since October of the month due to the current affair of spying, the Snowden affair. France and Germany announced bilateral talks with the United States and said other Member States can join. Whether Croatia joined these bilateral talks or according to the operational knowledge of our intelligence community there was no need for that. Whether Croatia was the subject of spying or not, if what the government has done about it. Second session of the European Council, common security and defence policy. Croatia participates in several missions, EU peace missions, NATO and the United Nations. Whether the talks were launched within the government and what the government's position is in relation to the EU and NATO common defence policy that has been agreed, that Croatia is slowly coming out of a number of peacekeeping missions that we have been involved in so far. And if I have the exact information for this year, that's why we need to get around 700 million kuna out of the budget. Furthermore, in the chapter, the increased efficiency and visibility and impact of the Common Defence Policy, the European Council stresses the further development of the European fighting forces. Is this, at the outset, the creation of some EU army, the EU's European army, the European army. What is the European battle groups project and to what extent the strategy, which Croatia has to do with such announcements. In the context of the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, aggressive tax planning, the reduction of tax base and the shift of profits, which was also the topic at the second session, I would be interested in the Croatian position and position on the relocation of profits. For example, in the previous year, foreign partners made 2 billion euros in profits from Croatia, and 600 million euros were made in Croatia by our entrepreneurs in other countries. And this shift of profits especially from the financial banking sector is becoming an increasingly serious problem. It was also announced that a revision of the Interest Income Taxation Directive will be adopted in March 2014. So that's about a month, a month and a half. What positions the Croatian government will represent in the debate on the directive, i.e. the taxation of interest on savings is a kind of taxation of property. Is there a more significant change in the government's policy than before? When the banking union is mentioned again in the euro area, meanwhile, your friend Vivian Redding has also made a statement and her vision, she intends to run for head of the European Commission, to see the EU's future as the United States of Europe. I would like to hear your personal position on such an intention that the EU's architecture so much change that it really grows into the United States of Europe, and I see the banking union as one of the instruments, turning the current EU into this very United States of Europe. Furthermore, the European Council welcomed and accepted the conclusions on enlargement in the stabilisation and accession process, and I am always interested in the subject of Serbia, and I am interested in the government's position on Albania because the report on Albania was being prepared both for Strasbourg and Brussels to set Croatia in this direction. Syria as the next point where Croatia, unlike some other EU member states, has extremely strong economic interests, which is the Hajan oil gas field for which some estimate that it has over $20 billion worth of capacity. And in this context, I ask you whether it is true that Croatia signed a statement in Vilnius, one of which is not only a dozen EU members, several days before the meeting of Kera Lavrov, in which she expressed the readiness to open the airspace for the armed forces of the United States when they were still planning military action, so before the meeting, Kera Lavrov reacted to what Moscow reacted by completely cooling relations with Croatia, or Zagreb. And as far as energy is concerned, the issue of the Tab project or the Ionian-Adriatic pipeline route from Azerbaijan was announced in March 2014. Since this includes Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro with Croatia, which are not EU members, is it true that your claim made in Bucharest that EU membership, Croatia, in the EU, limits somewhat of such large projects. So, it wasn't a TAB topic at the time, but it was a topic of other investments, whether you expect or not, or in what way you will prevent possible pressures from EU member states on the project compared to the southern course favoured by particularly strong EU members, notably France, Germany and the UK. So I have come to ask the most important questions I have prepared and indeed of these answers and positions of the Croatian government that have been discussed so far, and no clear answers have been received, as well as in the future behaviour of Croatia in the European Council, it seems to me that the citizens' mood will depend greatly on the EU institutions and their way of assessing the benefits of EU membership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67064	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lesar. The president of the government, Honored Zoran Milanovic, reports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67065	Since this isn't the current clock and I wanted to hear your views, in fact, mine you've heard and you'll hear them finally, I can't really answer this number of surface-formed questions here. The more attitudes are mostly fully known. So I'd like to have less insinuation and more concrete data. Let's say, which means the fact that I was in Bucharest talking about TAP, that it's a project that isn't, that's what you just said. So, in what Bucharest? I was in Azerbaijan a few weeks ago where the Minister of Economy signed a memorandum in Croatian name, or an indicative document to which we join the project. Otherwise, it is a project that is primarily in the interest of a huge EU member, which is Italy. We are a useful collateral and it will develop depending on the needs. So it's not tomorrow on the agenda, but it simply knows the entire Croatian public. So that's one insinuation. It's not bad, it's just a lack of information. As regards the role of this Parliament, our Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, it is more important and will be more important than the role of European bodies and commissions, regardless of the importance of the decisions these bodies make. Simply the key decisions of every and formal and political nature are made here and will be made here. And I'm coming to this last moment, which is the U.S. and the fixation of the idea of a member of the commission to run for president of the commission and to go towards the United States. Look, the last 50 years, everything's been going that way. The question is, where's the border? So first, in order to be a candidate for the President of the European Commission, a whole series of facts must be combined, and ultimately, happiness. So you have to come from a country that didn't have the last President of the European Commission, you have to come from the right part of Europe, your political group has to achieve a decent result in elections for the European Parliament. In your country, there must be a government or a coalition of political orientation that you belong to. I don't see any of these criteria with some candidates, and we'd have to match everyone. The United States, no, no, no. I am not to further reduce the authority of the Parliament and other parliaments except where it is necessary. The banking union, so did I not make it clear that given the level of euroisation of the Croatian economy and monetary system and the fact that the owners of our banks are mainly mothers of a large, large majority outside Croatia in EU member states that this is essentially a rhetorical issue. So we're kind of already inside. But the decision to privatise, or sell these banks, has not been made under the pressure of the EU. They were brought long ago in a completely different political environment, that's a fact. So now we live in such circumstances, in such conditions and in order to become a member of the euro area, and this shows more than anything is limiting, in fact, the maneuvering space of the economy and the political economy of each country must meet certain convergence criteria that Latvia has fulfilled here in 1.01. have now entered inside. Those are the formal criteria. But on the other hand, let's not fool ourselves that we have some kind of monetary independence. We don't have it, given the level of Euroisation of the economy. So there they are, so these roles have long been divided, and we're all going our separate ways. But still the key decisions are made here, Mark's Square, the Government, or the Parliament, above all. And I suggest that we don't drive people in such a way that we don't turn them against the EU. In these European elections, the best results will be achieved by Eurosceptics in Europe. There are still not many in Croatia. So, we don't need to talk about Europe unreal in superlatives because the problems are numerous, the restrictions are numerous, but I also think it's actually to cut back on time. That's it. I mean, according to that 16 questions, the views are mostly familiar. It says 5.5 minutes. Is there a mistake?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67066	No, no, you still have five minutes. A colleague of Dragutin Lesar stands up to this replica display.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67067	Mr. Prime Minister, you've given three questions, even though you said you wouldn't answer. There was really no insinuations in my questions, really no insinuations. If the media misrepresented your statement, I was just quoting that statement and nothing else, and I had no intention of going with any innuendo because I really am interested in the answers to these questions. No one else has asked them or asked them, it doesn't mean that I'm alone in these questions that I might be wrong in getting answers. You gave, according to the Rules of Procedure, a report on your work at the 2 sessions of the European Council. That's the point and the subject of the debate. You've given the oral part today. My questions were to extend that report. Our views are completely irrelevant, they would be important, Mr. Prime Minister, if we had a model in Croatia to discuss these views before the European Council meetings. Then they might have. But you said that such a model, and by law, Croatia will not apply. And now our views on your work in the European Council and the attitudes that you have represented can only be subject to either asking questions or commenting whether you have done something good or less good or bad because it has passed the time. We're not talking about the future. And not every time you get a question, I know it's not current in the morning. You've had enough time to answer four, five more questions, but I think it's more polite to ask if something has been unclear so far than to draw conclusions and opinions based on unverified facts and information. You should appreciate that when asked through the question, you have a chance that some things that you didn't get here before or that you didn't think it was important or you didn't think it was an interest to explain. I don't see why you're starting with these accusations and insinuations?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67068	Replication response, President Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67069	... in the formal sense of the word, there is no accusation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're simply asking me if I stood up for something in Bucharest? And afterwards there was an event in Azerbaijan in which in some ways Croatia joined a single project. That's a complete contradiction. So, a meeting in Bucharest, it was a meeting of the European prime ministers in Central, Eastern Europe with the Chinese Prime Minister of Government, where I only spoke publicly about projects in general, not an energy project, in general projects specifically with the China Stage having nothing to do with it. So, I don't know where you connected China to the Stage, it's... These are the two ends of the world that all these projects must be managed and be within the framework of the EU project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's the basic loyalty of integration you belong to, right? And that said a few other prime ministers there besides me, so welcome, now a week ago I got a letter about and with possible Chinese participation in the Rijeka port, we'll see, so there's no conclusions ahead but you just have to set up cooperation frameworks and it's totally based on mutual understanding. That's all that happened there in Bucharest at that meeting and the public is very well aware of it. I can't do mysteries and don't do mysteries about how I behave on the European Councils, but you must know that the Croatian model of European affairs and preparation for the European Council and in general for all formats of the council is some middle model. Everyone knows this, so Croatia has simply chosen a medium solution through comparative analysis in some kind of project. You have a solution in which every detail is really discussed in parliament. Life has to happen somehow. The government must make decisions that eventually always come before parliament where the government is tested daily or every week. On the other hand, you have countries where parliament does not practically participate. Some of the greatest democracies, I mean the role of Irish, British parliament versus cabinets very small. We didn't want that system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67070	Thank you. I now urge my colleague Daniel Mondekar to present the SDP Club's position on the report by the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67071	Thank you very much, the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is the first session of this kind where we discuss meetings of the European Council where the Prime Minister presents a report for the past year. Some EU countries call such similar events European days to discuss whether in the European Council, whether maybe even a Hungarian model in a state of EU membership in the past year. I think this is more than a good format given the coverage the Parliament has for working in the EU Council and parliamentary oversight of the Government in European affairs. The European Council sets out EU guidelines and priorities. By entering into force of the Lisbon Treaty, it became an institution. The members are heads of state or government, Member States together with their President and President of the Commission. The High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and the European Council shall also take part in this, giving the Union the necessary incentive for its development, setting out general policy guidelines and priorities for this development. It does not perform legislative functions as the Prime Minister has already mentioned. The European Council shall meet at least six months twice. There are extraordinary sessions in this year, even when the euro area issue was taken, I mean almost six sessions, decisions are made by consensus, and that's why it's such a complicated decision-making mechanism. Since the entry into the EU, the Prime Minister has therefore participated in two formal, two informal councils, and when we talk about formal councils in October and December, the Croatian Parliament through the European Affairs Committee has been informed of the agenda of the European Council and we have received insight into the conclusions of the European Council of the European Council, and in the end we have received the government's views that I am not speaking first, second, third comments, Council formats, we are receiving the Government's views for the European Council alone before the European Council itself, and there is a Croatian Parliament that counts less than a dozen parliaments of EU member states where in a certain form Parliament has been informed of the position before the European Council itself. Croatia has entered the EU, the date you know but the circumstances of Croatia's entry are interesting. So it is that we entered at the end of a financial period 2007-2013, which has been interestingly reflected in the various systems that Croatia will have to use EU funds because of the M+3 rules by 2016 and will immediately have to apply new rules to new funds. We entered the end of a legitimate period, which is crucial and important to say. A legal period ending in the next European Parliament elections. So, we entered at the end of the legislative period and we came closer to half of the period to achieve the strategic objectives of key EU strategies, just look at the Europe 20 targets and 20 goals, and look at the internal energy protection of the environment, then look at the targets from a few days ago, new climate targets, the energy targets that Europe has already outlined, which must drop by 40%, and renewable energy sources go to 27%. This is a matter of openness to say equally about the enormous effort for Croatia over the next few years. We have also entered the EU at a time when Europe is a big difference. In Europe where parts of Europe still suffer from the crisis and where, in some things, I dare say so here, the Union has become primarily an economic and then a political community, but only in some things. And for us, this is my personal assessment, when you look at the relationship to the goals that were from the Lisbon Agenda until 2010 and Europe 20 20 20 2022, this is a race with time for us. As one commentator said... Politics, 'Race against the clock'. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Croatia is fighting here, we are not sitting, we are not obedient, we are not listening, we are actively participating and we are proposing. And how much Europe has changed and already mentioned policies such as agriculture or cohesion, where this change in thinking in the EU can be seen in a small part, where they have even become less social keys than they were in the previous period of that policy. On the European Council itself, these two European Councils, topics that have been discussed and were of great importance to Europe, so the digital economy of innovation and services, economic and social policy, economic and monetary union, the Eastern Partnership and the enlargement issue that I am personally afraid is becoming slow for some Member States, so here I will make it clear to some Member States, perhaps even a second-rate issue, and it is up to us to fight not to become, a question of migration, a common security policy, external relations, energy and regional policy, a particularly important issue of the Alpine region. In the digital economy, why has he been being talked about for so many years? In a Europe that is still in crisis, a digital economy that is relieved of the whole series, for example, administrative problems can create several million jobs. Europe at a price of 3.5 to 5 million, 900 thousand very quickly through only fundamental changes in, say, IT education. And here we already have a whole series of initiatives that are here and for Croatia from developing e-skills through our schools, through the Opening up Education initiative and Rasmus Plus program to an interesting novelty for Croatia, Grand Coalition for Digital Jobs, a large coalition for digital jobs because it is a European Commission initiative funded by private capital. And these are some of the things that we need to learn how in Europe work. Also, there is a very important incentive to start up, but also to develop an e-service where Croatia is not really late, and when you look at the digital agenda of the scoreboard on e-service, e-government, and also e-Health and finally the e-Citizens of Croatia are not behind at all, even the predecessors in some things. Of course, the prime minister well mentioned a common regulatory framework for, say, telecommunications, e-signature, broadband internet. During the Greek Presidency, there will probably be a political agreement and about 4G of technology and large data, hence the big date and issues of shipbuilding, but the issue of open liberalisation of telecommunications markets is being raised, the European Commission has moved what we heard on the Committee on European Affairs recently on the subject in 2015. In the economy and social policy, youth unemployment and small entrepreneurship are one of the key issues of resolution in the second half of last year. So we have an operationalisation of the Youth Employment Initiative, a guarantee for young people and an necessity which will now come change within the education sector related to, say, the European Association for Education. And when you look at Euridis statistics, it means that it monitors educational statistics and partly Eurostat for the Republic of Croatia means it means IT education, advanced technologies in education, entrepreneurial learning and through civil education creating e-citizens. You can simply read it from statistics. In small entrepreneurship we heard about billions of kunas from HABOR and HAMAG which for the first time can be... related to other fresh funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From EU funds, it is the European Social Fund in which you even have the opportunity to create jobs directly, you have the opportunity to support people who have lost their jobs net, and what is crucial is to include them in lifelong education to return to the labour market. So we have an opportunity for entrepreneurial learning, incubation, accelerators, direct job creation, social entrepreneurship as a very important factor, but also new programmes. It is not just about youth employment or entrepreneurship guarantees for young people. You must consider that there are three, four other programs from which money can be used if projects are made wisely for the same purpose. One of the things that the European Council has made clear is also the aim of removing administrative barriers through REFIT, regulatory fitness, so through cleaning up a whole series of regulations that should be made possible, i.e. to support structural reforms. Croatia is also waiting for the European semester. The cycle of co-ordination of economic and fiscal policy within the EU focuses on the first beginning of the year, the first six months, so it was named. During the European Semester, Member States shall coordinate their budgetary and economic policies with the objectives and rules agreed at EU level. In this way, the semester provides sound public finances, promotes economic growth, and prevents excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the EU, and we expect the European Commission's recommendations as we will see recommendations related to the excessive deficit procedure. And here to be clear, Croatia has completely stopped being an island by entering the EU. She hasn't been before. It has not been before, but it completely ceases to be an island and the competitiveness of Croatia which will be the topic of debate this year is seen through a framework of competitiveness with 28 other countries on the single market. I would be happy to say that EU competitiveness is what Europe is competitive towards the United States or China. We already know that by signing a free trade agreement with the US, Croatia's families are likely to experience certain advantages in consumption, but there is already, for example, a certain problem or challenges for agriculture. But we are not just talking about this competitiveness, we are talking about the competitiveness of the Croatian employer, his product and his workers who are working against his European competitors. In that sea of 500 million inhabitants Croatia must also fight. Together they will succeed or basically fail together, it is the state that gives the framework, and our framework in many ways is difficult to deal with with the rest of Europe, difficult. And unfortunately, we are not the only country as the prime minister has said, there are many other countries that are in similar problems. And it's a one-dimensional view of what's institutional. When you put the impact of the business sector on it, when you put the possibility of, for example, being in the EU parliament, there is something called Map Industry Forums, which is impossible to have in the Assembly. The Parliament cannot organise a business-political organisation with its administration, its money and its technical support. But it is also one of the new models Croatia must deal with. Croatian lawmakers cannot be lobbyists of individual industries, in some Member States they are and are expected of them. And yes, some Member States have a long-developed model to lobby along with business networks for their interests as we say in Croatia in many ways and unethical. But that's what we have to deal with. That is why there is also the European Council and the EU Council which, in the ordinary legislative procedure, can direct the EU to Parliament and the European Commission. As far as the Economic Monetary Union is concerned, the prime minister said everything. The banking union has gone far enough, or has come close enough, with a key element in establishing a single bank resolution mechanism, with the Republic of Croatia having this cautious position. But it opened up the question we just heard, which is a question of more Europe or subsidiarity in Europe. And at the moment that, we have a German proposal that goes beyond the issue of the banking union for more Europe, we have a Dutch proposal that is a political proposal to return some of the state's powers to the countries of origin, without amending the Lisbon Treaty, fundamental changes. We have a British model for a smaller Europe which is almost impossible because it touches fundamental freedoms and requires a full change of basic contracts. But these are also some topics that this House must deal with in the future with the subject of subsidiarity. On the enlargement of the Eastern Partnership, everything is said. Croatia has been available to its friends and the region with its knowledge and experience, exchanges have been taking place for some years since the translation of the acquis and beyond. We, if the countries of the region really have a goal of having a European path for their goal, will help them. Finally, let's not forget Croatia will soon be the only Member State, member of the Danube and Alpine region, which means more opportunities in terms of educational cooperation, business cooperation but also energy co-operation. And finally, Croatia entered the EU under different circumstances than the countries in 2004 "were more casual". And we have very little time to adapt to some of the models some countries have been building for decades, at least a decade of those who entered in 2004. And we also need to understand that we are not alone, that we are fighting for our share of the market for every job in the competition of 500 million people, that we are doing it in competition with countries that have developed their models equally Here, for years and that some of these models for Croatia are simply perhaps even unacceptable. [[Intruder Stazić: Bring the end.]] And that is why I believe that the Government in the European Council but also in the EU Council is doing its job very well, and this is also the way we call on Croatia's citizens to use their right to raise initiatives through the European citizens' initiative ECI, but also to go to elections for the European Parliament because this is a really important topic for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67072	I give my word to the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic, who has five minutes of time at his disposal. I'm sorry there was a mistake last time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67073	A few topics open each time, and they're all important. So in order to objectively analyse what the EU has done for harmonisation and convergence, economies and levels of development of EU member states are sufficiently back in 1970. I often used to say that the best indicator of Yugoslavia's failure is that regardless of the single market from 1918 to 1990, regional imbalances between the most developed and the poorest parts of the country remain the same. So the integration, harmonisation effect of Yugoslavia is weak or not at all in the same state, and then in a unilateral one-party state with all instruments centralised instruments or at least most of the time centralised instruments of economic monetary policy and weak, nothing. At one point, the EU has created an illusion that it is capable of achieving an environment where it can be skipped and that, for example, countries in the South are jumping very high until the start of this unfortunate 2008 crisis, Greece and the like, without underestimating, but this crisis has put it back almost to its initial positions. And when we look at one of those when it comes to countries of a similar profile, a very relevant macroeconomic indicator, income per capital, 1970s today between Western European countries, it's less and less the same, as if nothing has changed with the extremely important Irish that jumped that made a quantum leap that became a rich country, all other countries are more or less in proportion to plus-minus 10, 15% where they were. Both Germany and Italy and the UK, I say not literally, but almost like that. So, when we look at the European Union on that side, it's like it wasn't there. By introducing the euro, the matter has been further complicated for those who, unlike Germany and the Scandinavian states who reformed their competitiveness, bought monetary manipulations, devalued the lira,... And I'm competitive for a year and then everything goes down again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The euro is coming and it's being joked and it's not out anymore. That's for the strong. That's what we have to watch. And it's not, as good-looking as it is, it's not bad for us to be so rigidly tied to the euro, no matter how good it is, it's not bad, because obviously the competitiveness in these manipulations we can't look for and we don't have to look for it. So, just in extra quality. Our balance of payments deficit if I'm not wrong right now is very small, which is a good and bad indicator. He's good because he's small, he's bigger before, and he's bad because nothing's happening. So we're not dependent on foreign capital, like Turkey, which has a deficit of over 10%. That tomorrow something changes all the investments go out. Why am I saying this? These are important topics for us. Neighbors, expansion. So, me, too, and my associates don't belong to people who count as someone on television yesterday how many Serbs or Hungarians have been employed in some public enterprise in Vukovar, that's me, but it's human low. That's why we can ask questions and colleagues on the other side of the Danube around the border complex that we have to solve. So we're not going to act like Slovenia if that's what we said, that wasn't exactly the right thing to do. Come on, Slovenia has been dealing with a complex problem, going out to sea. So the whole state of Croatia is, when we look at ourselves, so we have the entire eastern coast of the Adriatic, it bothers many, I just can't see it. They don't have to hate us, but they can't see it. So it's also responsibility on our part. The border on the Danube is, I want to believe as a politician as real as it is a technical question. And here I will expect the very co-operation of any government in Belgrade, and we have to deal with it. It's not about going out to sea, it's not about geostrategics, it's about a few acres to the left or right, the two ade we're going to ask to finally get rid of. The same goes for the border on the Union with Bosnia and Herzegovina, I stress with Bosnia and Herzegovina not some third, not Belgrade, Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that is why the efforts to define this border and to keep Zrinski grad in Croatia, regardless of what is on the other side, these are important things for us, they are symbolically important not economically important, they are symbolically important. So, the one who obstructs it just for obstruction just because he doesn't lose three voters in his village won't have my understanding, we're talking about other countries not about Croatia. So we expect him to get rid of it, get rid of it. And that's where we'll be active, so we won't be sitting. We have a bit of a stronger moral ID to look for.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67074	Time. Thank you. We have a replica of Bora Grubisic on this exhibit. Everyone else called in their replicas too late. Please, we're looking here from the President's desk, watching carefully, we'll stick to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much for understanding. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67075	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, in these last sentences in which the prime minister was speaking, I actually feel in some way the answer to what I was saying to Mr. Kajin, and these are unresolved our border problems with the Republic of Serbia or Vojvodina and with, this time also added to Bosnia and Herzegovina in connection with Ade near Kostanica and the town of Zrinski, which is still on Croatian territory today, we have Croatian sovereignty over this Ada, and I do not understand why to ask the question of Ade again at Croatia's Kostajnica, there are other issues unresolved with Bosnia and Herzegovina. But it is not a few hectares in the Kenji area when it comes to the Danube and the Danube borders and only two Ades, but rather several thousand hectares of disputed Croatia and Serbia. So don't diminish, but from this you can see the intention of making no problem. I am not saying that there should be problems for Serbia, but they should be told loud and clear that is Croatian territory both grant and cadastrian. Not like this. Also, the foreign minister said it was only important to determine the number of missing persons and their names, and that's all we're looking for. As far as I'm concerned, and as far as we're concerned, that's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67076	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67077	I mean, you want tension because you'd want to do your profits as you say, so there's no tension. A few acres of course is a phrase, we know exactly how many acres it's about. And look, the state is not a flag, anthem and a boot, nor a cadastre and a garter, it's an internal matter, so the border is arranged in a civilized world contract. These are eradicated contracts, which include rare contracts in international law where the clause rebus sic stantibus does not apply, so you can't get out of them. You can leave the European Union, out of the contract with the Holy Table and with any third country under certain conditions. You can come out of the border contract by war. So that's why civilised countries negotiate and sign border contracts. It's complicated. That's where we stopped. The only state we have a border contract with is Hungary. With Slovenians, we are now in arbitration, I hope that it will be okay, that we will finally accept this rightful word whatever it is and we have not solved these other countries, Montenegro or Bosnia or Serbia. Therefore, do not call for tensions to be known to be Croatian either. Well, that's Croatian for us. That should be settled in a contractual manner, gentlemen. It's a rule of law, not to say it's mine. If I don't have it registered then it's not mine and it's the object of the dispute, the eternal object of the dispute that poisons relations where in times of crisis, the same people are constantly skating the same political ideas and the same provocations. It's my job and our mission to solve it. And you seem to be looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67078	Please don't throw it away. I now ask my dear colleague Gordan Jandrokovic to introduce us to the positions of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67079	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The first Report of the Prime Minister on the meetings of the European Council was before us and so far in this year there were two councils, in October and December, and it should be said at the beginning that this is a new form of political action and of the Croatian Government, but we in the Croatian Parliament too, which is good for all of us, directly linked to full membership in the European Union. For the first time in Croatian history, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia can sit at the table with others, sit with the leaders of the most developed European and world countries and defend the interests of the Republic of Croatia. So it's about a quality that's long since seemed so far away, it seemed almost invaluable, but here today it's become reality. This did not happen by accident, it is the result of huge social effort, comprehensive reforms and the change of the Croatian state for the better. Full membership means that the Republic of Croatia has achieved all necessary reforms, met the necessary criteria both in value and institutional terms to meet the standards necessary for membership in the European Union. The key message of the Prime Minister is that we must start acting as a Member State and I fully agree with it, but I do not agree with the argument made by the Prime Minister in that first part when he said that we now have opportunities, he did not say so, but I think so, when we are not right to confront the Member States, with representatives of the Member States, and sometimes unargumented to defend our interests. So I'm saying you didn't say it like that, but you pointed out that that's the point that you can fight for yourself in a way that I don't think is justified. I believe that the value of membership in the European Union is that we have become part of the most developed community in the world, the most complex, the most sophisticated, that the value of our views today is that we can defend ourselves in the same place with the most developed countries in the world, which we can use funds, resources, resources and the European community, but also by making a large amount of membership in that community and making us change from within, to our legislation, our political life, our behavior, our habits, to our habits, to our behaviour in this most developed community. So, what I was going to say is that I don't think it's a good thing to be a member of the European Union because you're unargumented heroes when you can't win the battle, and it's proven in the case of lex Perkovic that you can't win that battle, but I think it's much more quality to be part of that community and in an argumentable European way to fight for your views in accordance with the Treaties, in accordance with the rules that exist within that community. And I'm also asking the same question now after six months have we really shown that we know what we want Mr. Prime Minister, have we taken advantage of these six months of the benefits that membership in the European Union has brought us. I don't think so, it's a general assessment that we haven't done enough and that we could and had to do a lot more. The question is why is it so, the question is who is responsible for it and the question is how to go forward and how to fix it. So as far as the first question is concerned, why, I believe that we are not only the Government but also everyone else, but the primary government, that it has not affirmed enough topics that promote European values and promote membership in the European Union. Compare only the agenda of the European Councils and themes dominated by the European Council with topics dominated by the Croatian political space and you will see how far away we are from what is happening in the European Union. Digital economy, economic and social policy, economic and monetary union, migration, Eastern partnership, youth employment, European semester. Compare this with the topics on which we conduct debates on a daily basis, compare this with the topics that dominate here in the Croatian Parliament and you will see that unfortunately this process of europeanisation so as to say political topics in the Republic of Croatia goes much slower than what we really need. The answer to the second question was in part and I said who was responsible for it. I believe that the most responsible Government of the Republic of Croatia is because it seems to me, and this shows from day to day, that the members of the government have not truly identified themselves with the achievements of the accession negotiations. Also today's presentation of the Prime Minister when we talked about the reforms needed to complete the negotiations, the Prime Minister then says no, these were not reforms, it was the harmonisation of the law. It's not like that. Harmonisation is one of the elements necessary for full membership. Much more important than the harmonisation of the law itself was the implementation of these laws and proof that the reforms were irreversible and that we did not prove that the laws were applicable and that we did not prove then, and yet I am afraid that there have been some leaps from what we said then, that we did not then claim and convince our partners that the reforms were irreversible we would not complete the negotiations and we would not become a full member of the European Union. So, I don't know why you put this most complex process through which Croatia has passed in a legislative sense, but also in terms of overall changes and our habits, our behavior, our everyday life, because it shows me that or you don't want to acknowledge the merits of those who were before you for something that was well done for Croatia or you simply don't understand it. And there are some examples that show me that it could be very easy to work about not understanding what membership in the European Union is really about Croatia. Three are the last cases I can talk about in different ways. The first is the economic situation in Croatia, the Agency's standard and pulse report, where in an explanation of the reduction in ratings, the government's economic and budgetary policy measures were not enough to encourage the development of the economy and the collection of public finances. In their opinion, since it came to power two years ago, the ruling coalition has failed to implement reforms that would significantly improve the country's economic prospects. The short-term economic benefits that Croatia has as a member of the EU are limited due to structural problems, and Croatia could become a net payer in the EU budget, i.e. fail to recover the funds it pays as a member of the Union. And then one finding that is quite politically difficult and painful for this government could lead to Croatia becoming a net payer in the EU budget. So I quote this not as an assessment of the Croatian Democratic Community, as a Croatian opposition. I'm quoting this as a credit rating. Another case I consider to show insufficient understanding of full membership is what happened with the European arrest warrant, with the case of lex Perkovic which we pointed out here in the Croatian Parliament that it will not contribute to strengthening the position of the Republic of Croatia within the EU. That's exactly what happened. But through this case, we have seriously violated both the government's trinity and democratic standards, legal certainty, the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia. It's no use to us, and I'm sorry it happened. And here's a third case that I'm going to point out not from the corner of the day policy, but from the corner of European values is the case of the Assistant Minister of Finance. I won't name him now. Because it points out that in some things we went back, because in 2011, before we finished negotiations on such a situation, such conflict of interest, such abuse of a political position was not possible. I ask you to bring this thing to an end as soon as possible, to sanction what is not only in accordance with the law, but what is not politically correct and moral. And through that we can also judge how much we have truly accepted European values, how much we are a European country or not. So, not through the way you tried to solve lex Perkovic calling for us to be a full member now, but precisely with our own behavior, demonstrating that we really are a full member. And here's another five minutes. I would like to say that on the very transparency of this process, the public is informed of what is happening on the European Council. I know it's a very sophisticated material, that it's not always easy to communicate all things. But I'm sure most citizens don't know what the Prime Minister is doing, what attitudes he represents at the meetings of the European Council. The public does not know how the work of the Prime Minister affects the situation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Council. Even we who receive reports through our committee can't read what your activity is, because the report is so written that it turns out that in these, I don't know, twelve, thirteen points of the agenda in two councils, you've reported only twice for the word. I don't know if it's really like that, but that's how it turns out. Or you said no more, so it's not listed, but then you do one technology by which these reports will be written because we would like to know what you are and how you spoke on the European Councils. There is also the departure of today's finance minister to Brussels. There's no transparency here. Yesterday came the first Deputy Prime Minister and announced we have a solution to the deficit, but you can't tell him. Well, I don't think that's how European topics are communicated, regardless of what they have big consequences for the internal situation in Croatia, but we can't secretly hide something from Croatian citizens, not just from Croatian citizens, but here's the Committee for European Affairs. Couldn't we have discussed it there to inform us because we have experience of mutual information through the national committee that followed the negotiations where all the topics were, all the views of the Republic of Croatia were clearly presented to the representatives of the opposition. So I invite you to report on such situations to the Croatian Parliament if not at plenary sessions but through appropriate parliamentary bodies so that we can have some information about it and express our position. And as far as I'm concerned, the third question was the question I asked. I agree that together we must all understand that we are EU members, thus adapting our policy and our political action, more to the EU itself, answering some social issues, asking some internal questions right through EU membership, and it seems to me that countries and logically are because the longer they entered ahead of us and in this last and last wave, they have more europeanised their societies than Croatia has done so far. It is an important region, I agree, that relations with neighbouring countries are important. But we're no longer part of that community. We are today a community with France, Italy, Sweden, Denmark, etc. So we need to strengthen Croatia's integration into the EU, strengthen our ties with the Member States, not endanger these relations. I believe that we must keep the public professional, but also in a simpler way to get acquainted with European topics. We ran out of European campaigns before the referendum, which we ran for many years during the negotiations. And that should be taken into account, inform citizens, talk to them about what is happening in the EU, use the means of public communication in the first row of public media, and that is the Croatian television that has to talk about the EU and the things that are happening there so that citizens know what is going on and what are the topics that dominate there. And the third question for us Parliamentarians as much as we contribute to the affirmation of European topics, how many times have we talked in the Croatian Parliament, for example, about the digital economy, about the economic and monetary union, about the European semester, about migration. It seems to me that the exposure here is something unusual, and I will commend the presentation of the representatives of the SDP club who really spoke of it professionally and in quality. And I think these are the topics that should be talked about here more and devoted to it a lot more time. Because if we in the Croatian Parliament don't talk about these topics professionally, if we avoid them. Because it's much easier to talk about worlds, ideology and the past and even corruption than the digital economy, the banking union or the European semester. That we all know very well, this is a very sophisticated and complex matter that needs firsthand knowledge. And without knowledge, we can pretend as important as we want, but without knowledge, we can't be competitive or change things for the better in the Republic of Croatia. So, in conclusion, I believe that as a Croatian Parliament, and also as a Croatian government in the first place, we must change ourselves when it comes to European topics, European values, when it comes to identifying Croatian citizens with the EU itself, and when we do so ourselves, things in Croatia may change for the better. And that is why I hope that the response to the next European Parliament elections will be greater. Of course, I also invite citizens and citizens to respond to these elections as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67080	I thank my colleague Jandrokovic. There are three replicas reported for his exposure. The first one came from the esteemed Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67081	Thank you. Comrade Jandroković, you may not even know it, but this is a significant date for the history of philosophy and logic in particular, you have today inauguration a new philosophical, or logical direction in some new philosophy school with your incredible contribution, and I will quote you. You said, "I'll answer something the Prime Minister didn't say, but I think so." You see, this is an unprecedented finding and one logical structure that will still have to be explored, and right now I can't. It looks like a nonsensical to me, but who knows what's behind it. You later talk about reason because you say the prime minister doesn't understand what it means to be in the EU. After such logical acrobatics and virtuosity, how do you talk about reason? It's the same problem. And in the end I just... Again mentions some variant of corruption etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2012, there were 43 502 thieves in Croatia. There's been so many charges. They stole 670 million kunas. And you see this team, Sanader accused 650 million kunas, HYPO, INA, MOL 41 million, FIMI MEDIA 70 million, Mountain 26 million, HEP 3.8 million, HAC 80 million total 820 million. The world's strongest corrupt team in HDZ uniform.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67082	The replica matches Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67083	So this is exactly what I've been talking about in most of my exposure, larding is the most common answer to lack of knowledge and arguments. I may have been clumsy at that moment, but I believe that through the rest of my exposure, I made it very clear what I wanted to say. Well, Mr. Jurjevic, if you're in this, if you understand a little bit of the EU, if you understand topics like the digital economy, then I invite you to talk about it. I mean, it's your right and you can do it like that. But I think that what I said and it wasn't on purpose, I think that everyone who wanted to hear the message was clearly heard. And I call you once again, let's not make a circus out of European themes because we can't say anything about them. But I invite you, and you and your colleagues, let's discuss, let's have a thematic session on the digital economy. Let's have a thematic session on the European semester. Let's all learn about it together. Because it is not simple, it requires a huge intellectual effort, it requires great education, it requires knowledge of the 21st century process, it requires knowledge of the EU institutions, it requires Mr. Jurjevic to do everything you don't know. And that's why you guys grab a line and make a play out of it right now. I'm the one who put it all together, and later I explained what I was going to say, and you guys are having fun because you don't know anything else anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67084	Second replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67085	Dear colleague Jandrokovic, I'll take 2, 3 things you said. First of all, you were talking about the relevance of the credit agency. We've already said several times that credit agencies are very often, not every time, neoliberal racketeeres and work always in the interest of someone. Therefore, we do not give too much consideration, though we are a small country that depends greatly on their grades. What I fully agree with you is an assessment of the role of HRT in education of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. HRT should devote more space to Croatia's equal membership in the EU, and it is absolutely safe to have daily chronicles on what is happening and not 20 seconds of news in the journals. I think we should understand in Prisavlje that we have become an equal member of the EU. The response to the elections depends on all of us here in the Parliament, all the parties we will be involved in calling and reaching the ears of citizens and proving to them that they need to go to the elections because it is very important who is sitting in the European Parliament. And since I didn't report for the replica, I fully agree with you, I would like to commend Mr. Mondekar's inspired presentation, my president and yours, as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67086	And this replica corresponds to the respected Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67087	Thank you very much. Well, just a few sentences and about HRT. All along the negotiations, we had big problems getting HRT to participate in the campaign, eventually turned on and made it possible without fees to broadcast those videos. But at the same time, she published sensational themes that spoke completely wrongly about some phenomena concerning the EU. This was awkward and dangerous at the time because we had to finish negotiations, have a referendum and make a qualified decision on whether or not we should be a member of the EU. But today it's even more devastating. Today, Croatian citizens are also EU citizens, living in that integration, and if they do not have information about that integration, of course they will then experience the wrong, superficially, uninterested in the final. We have recently had a Committee on European Affairs, we have discussed some topics there, and we have concluded that there are regulations and directives of the regulation that are not published at all in the National Journals, but are coming from the website of the National Journals to the EU messenger or I do not know exactly what it is called, where these regulations can be found. So, a small entrepreneur in Croatia who has learned to follow the laws through the national newspapers today when a regulation is published that becomes an automatic part of Croatian legislation but does not go through the Croatian Parliament he cannot be informed about it through the National Journal but must know that it is coming through a certain link to that European site. As far as we as the Croatian Parliament, as much as the Croatian government, as the Croatian public media has talked about it, we will be surprised when people will not out of ignorance obey certain regulations or certain laws, what will punish them then. So we all owe it to politics together but also to the media especially to the public media to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67088	Thank you. Last line, the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67089	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Jandroković, in your presentation you cited several, I think three examples of how this government,... In its political action, the Croatian government does not show and is not at European level and you have given three important reasons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would add to that if you agree with me and the way and conduct of the ruling majority when it comes to the proposal to amend the Croatian Constitution. So I would say not only that this, the amendment and the procedure for amending the Croatian Constitution is not at the level of the EU Member State, but I would say that this procedure in which the ruling majority of the amendments to the Constitution have been far below the level to which the Parliament has acted in the past four amendments to the Croatian Constitution. To the extent that the Croatian expert public, the scientific public dared to amend the Croatian Constitution, and even the Constitutional Court referred to the impropriety of the shortness of public debate that should take a few days in which Croatian citizens should be manifested about such changes to the Constitution, to the extent that even the president of the state tried to intervene in such a change of the Croatian Constitution so that he would be almost ridiculed by the ruling saying that he was late with the proposal for a change of the Croatian Constitution and that the president of the state who, according to the Constitution, was authorised to amend the Constitution. On the one hand, on the one hand, this government can declare itself a declaration of conduct, how to rule and manage Croatia at the level of one normal European behaviour, but on the other hand, these examples show that it is not up to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67090	And this replica corresponds to Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67091	Well, being a European today doesn't mean calling yourself a European and being a European. The European means to follow certain values. They can be general human but can also be political, economic, scientific, etc. In a political sense, I was saying that this government and the ministers of this government did not honestly identify themselves with the achievements of accession negotiations. I'm standing at that grade. It has its own logic. They did not participate directly in the negotiation process and did not participate on a daily basis in those challenges that people who were then in charge of the negotiations they faced daily. So it wasn't easy. We too learned from this process and the one who participated in it had opportunities to learn more. However, today, when we are a full member, I expect that this identification with European values and the results of the negotiations to seriously clap to say so to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that we do not have cases such as the European arrest warrant, that we do not have cases where conflict of interest is evident, that no one reacts to us, that cases in which, as you have stated, we are changing the Constitution by no democratic procedure. So, the EU certainly is also a procedure, certainly democracy, certainly also is respect for those who today do not have a majority here in the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, it didn't happen, but I guess it's all a process, and we'll probably get to the level that we all want together or that we think is at that level.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67092	Thank you. The debate now re-emerges the Prime Minister, respected Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67093	I agree. ... is everything, and the goal towards the process is much less important because life is a journey and not a destination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is why it is very important in this process to remain human, and when we call upon human values, then let us be a little more humble, whether Christians, believers, religious or not, let us not so. Did you visit the prison of the man who brought you into politics and pushed you into HDZ in 1997 and 98 years in which you would never have taken a break if you hadn't worked in his office? You wondered if he was guilty of anything or part of it or maybe more than what was put on him. Don't talk to me about human values and talk about what you want again, it's your right. So democracy is, I'll repeat again the only thing we have left. It is possible because a man has a fundamental sense of justice but precisely because he is so prone to injustice and lies is necessary, otherwise we would disappear. And after these discussions, it remains only hope that people, citizens, who, behold, are not discussing the digital economy and the budget deficits and the banking union, but are discussing whether they are dealing with, as the game has ended, want to go to sea, I rarely use these pathetic parables, but now I have to. They don't discuss a digital agenda where they're only interested in how much the price of impulses and roaming costs will be if they raise money to go across the border for two days for skiing. I wonder what the Czech citizens are talking about, probably about the banking union, right? So, we are to blame for it or for the ruling party, the ruling majority is to blame for the public echoing the harsh tones of debate on the agendas of the European Council. They don't echo in Berlin, they don't echo in the Bundestag. People deal with their daily problems. And that's how it is. So, just hope that this looks at a sufficient number of people, to succeed in being concentrated, to listen and to go through all these slaughters and seals of manipulation, untrueness, immorality, and eventually to make the right decision. Respect Croatia. We're not laughing about these ridiculous laws, we're laughing about the relationships we have to ourselves. And according to the people you're lighting up, take revenge on them because you have complexes. Or the servants of people who are now under heavy indictments or campaign work, the campaign leaders of people who are more left-handed than me, who told jokes about Franja Tudjman or that they worked as recordsmen in the socialist youth, and later were finance ministers. It's all complexes. Indeed, when the people say that everyone is scratched where it it itches most, not all the proverbs of the people are wise. This one, everyone scratches where it it itches most. We're all the result of something that's happened before. Me too. The only question is how good it is, and how bad it is in its nature, in its essence. So let's let the people lock themselves up. I never speak for people, people ask, people think, people feel. Hey, I don't know, I'm not so much, I'm not so introspective, I don't have that power. I just hope people realize that they'll listen, that they have time to listen and they won't get caught up in a noise. Now, it worked once in 2003. Will it work now? It is possible, therefore, that people fall for the noise again and the manipulation of those who, in cycles of 8 years, have destroyed Croatia, the eyes and her soul take out and then eventually win and work on it again. And that's possible. My mission, not a religious mission, is to make it happen. Not to prevent, but simply to be better than that, it's not easy because it's a waste of democracy, and you're on your own now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67094	Thank you. The replica stands up to this exhibition first Gordan Jandrokovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67095	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. What do you say now? I gave you my hand, Mr. Prime Minister, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, and in my debate, I was critical, but at no point did I offend either of you. I was talking about politics. You fought back in a very ugly, personal way. I'm experiencing it so you don't have the arguments for what I've been telling you, and then you bring out, which is the worst of the truth. No one brought me by the hand, I came to HDZ with a project presented to the then Prime Minister, but I'm not going to justify it to you. There are witnesses here, from Mr. Seks and beyond who they were, who know my political path, and today you have misused the subject of your report from the European Council to insult a parliamentary representative who spoke of something that you didn't like. You've made a series of accusations against people, people who aren't here. I don't understand your motives. I don't understand why you're spreading hate. I do not understand why you are turning a subject like the European Council's report into a speech that will again make Croatian media say that today's debate on European values has turned into mutual accusation and insult. And now I get it. It's right that those who say that the only reason, the only purpose of your political action, is your personal rating, your personal PR, your personal image. You don't care about Croatian citizens, either. You don't care at all. If you used today's topic to transfer it to each other's charges, you didn't even talk about world view differences, you spoke as a street hooligan, but it's your right to behave like that, which is what you expect from an incompetent little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67096	My colleague Jandrokovic, because you called the prime minister a street hooligan, I give you a warning. And now, the reply to the replica, Prime Minister Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67097	No, no, sorry, no, it's a metaphor. I mean, the whole language is in development made up of metaphors, some of which, of course, are overcomplicated by concepts so they can't be used, but I think that's what you've decided. It's a metaphor. So he said like, he didn't say I was a street hooligan but to talk like a street hooligan, but there he was wrong. I'm very direct, and I haven't said anything that isn't completely true, and it's important. So you tell me. I want things to know about me that are important to my public, to political work. I don't care about your private life. Political work, that's important stuff. And your people sitting next to you, doing 10 years ago, because you're talking, talking, you understand you have light motives, so you're trying to create an impression, you're dishonest and you're not telling the truth. And that's the point of the whole story. So we must answer for our words and our deeds because behind our words someone will be moved to some works. That's the point of the whole story. So there's no offense. You say it's not true, you came with Project '97. A year from the second floor of the ministry to the first. What project? A project to nest in the cabinet. And that's legitimate. It's legitimate, it's not punishable, but people need to know it, which is my way with all the wrongs and mistakes that I've had, which is yours, which is from your party president, which is from the finance minister because there are people who always have nice tips, world view. As far as the light is concerned, my point is that you don't have one. That doesn't mean that you are, that it's punishable. You just don't have one, you don't have a light. Your worldview is opportunistic. And people work like that... through life and citizens will judge whether they want to be led by such people or wanted to be led by people who would tell them things more directly. Because the truth is not the way to success in business or politics, that's the obstacle. It needs to be crossed, it's the hardest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67098	We now have a reported breach of the Rules of Procedure. He's a colleague of Jandrokovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67099	Thank you very much. Article 238 is injured because the Prime Minister presents things that are not correct, which are not true, thereby derogating from the rules that apply in this House of Commons. So first he can't know whether or not I have a worldview, it's no one's right to judge someone else and its worldview is the first thing, so it's very offensive. I don't know if it's offensive to you or not, it's to me because I have a very powerful worldview and I've always stood up for it and fought for it is the first thing. The second thing, he's completely untrue about the facts of my career path, and he has no right to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67100	A colleague of Jandrokovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67101	Let's finish this one more sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67102	So that you abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67103	Well, I'm not abused because I've been brought into one very awkward situation because of a man who's so frustrated by his own failures, he's trying to transfer to others now by insulting them, so it's not true. It's my right and I'm it...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67104	My colleague Jandrokovic, first of all, was not injured by Rules of Procedure 238, because there is no such article in our Rules of Procedure that would prevent anyone from telling the truth. Such an article simply does not exist. And please, I've already said that even if you're convinced that the Prime Minister said something false, there's simply no such article. And now I'm going to repeat something I've said so many times, please be kind enough to stick to the Rules of Procedure. It's not the rules of procedure every time someone says something about HDZ that the HDZ doesn't like. Please be so patient. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to another replica signed up by counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I believed that the Prime Minister would remain at the government's level of office, but he simply can't stay at it and descend to that level, in fact one pretentious phraseology of insult and demeaning and fellow members of Jandrokovic but also others from the HDZ club. So he wondered what Europe was laughing at when it came to Croatia, he probably thought of the European Commission, and she laughed at the Law on HRT, laughed at the Law on Police, laughed at the law of Lex Perkovic, and that in two years your Government the Constitutional Court suspended several laws and provisions regarding health education and introduction into primary and secondary schools, banned retroactive introduction of taxes, declaration of labour obligations to doctors, and sent the Constitutional Court a message to the Croatian Assembly concerning the definition of marriage. I think that's what Europe is laughing at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67106	The replica corresponds to Prime Minister Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67107	A respected colleague, of the hundreds of regulations proposed by the Government to the Parliament, and the Parliament adopted or perhaps more than hundreds of regulations, the Constitutional Court has, as you say, repealed or abolished 2, 3. That's great? This means that the MPs in this House are, every Friday or day when they vote implicitly, voting in favour of some law, correctly interpreting that this law is, or a general act, in accordance with the Constitution. It is the work of the Croatian Parliament which is the fundamental interpreter and the law and the Constitution, the interpreter. Others use them and judge them, and this is an interpreter. You have brought it to the Constitution explicitly with your will, consciousness, knowledge, every Friday's judgment when you raise your hand before and when you debate it, you say that this law or this general act is in accordance with the Croatian Constitution. And in these two years, the Constitutional Court, three or four times, may not have said twice that it was wrong, two times the government. Well, that's great, considering the thousands of regulations they're working on. Look how we're not bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67108	We're continuing the club debate, so I'd like to invite my esteemed colleague, Milorad Pupovac, to present the position of the SDSS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67109	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. In our society there is a high assessment of the importance of language for the nation, national identity, for the state and its recognition in the world, but unfortunately there is also a very low responsibility according to the words people use when it comes to this language and here in this House and elsewhere. This kind of discrimination, this kind of distance between mythologicalization on the one hand, and on the other hand, the irresponsibility of decoupling on the one hand can be said the same thing about the EU and Croatia. So on the one hand, we mitology, and on the other hand, we're bagatelize. On the one hand, we turn into myths, and on the other hand we throw into mud. And these are the years of our relationship with the EU and the years of our relationship with the state. It's not my place to comment on the current course of the debate, especially because I don't have time, and I'm not sure it makes any sense. On behalf of the SDSS club, I wanted to say the following about the first Croatian Prime Minister's report to the Croatian Parliament on the work of the Council of Ministers or the Council of Ministers, and thus Croatia within the European Union, thereby also on the Union's relationship with Croatia. I think you need to speak in a way that will show a minimum self-awareness given that important if not a historic moment or a historic moment. First, we became a member of 1.7 last year. Have we become a more European country from this point on or not? That's the first question I'm interested in. I am much more interested in the issue of digital economy, although of course it is an extremely important issue, but not right now for the Republic of Croatia. The second question is whether from the moment Croatia falls under some kind of European supervision and not only fell during the budget deficit but fell since, at least since 2003, 2004 and certainly since 2001. Is Croatia better, is it better for Croatian citizens in these just over 10 years as part of this European surveillance? In a series of parameters, unfortunately not. And finally the third question. What is the perspective of Europe's Croatia and what is the perspective of the Union given that the European Union is no longer the one with which we started negotiations as well as of course Croatia is no longer what it was when the negotiations began. I don't have all the abilities to answer all these three questions, so I don't even have the tendency to say I have answers to them. But I think I have a need and a responsibility to ask these questions. I don't think the Prime Minister is here to answer all of them, but I think we're here to ask that kind of question. As far as the first question is concerned, unfortunately we are not a European country, we are not a European country because of what our courts have done in line with a kind of understanding of the European arrest warrant. We didn't. Our judiciary became more devastated after that than it was before. And there is no independence for our judiciary, but only the calculations between the various political understandings of things have moved to the judiciary and the judiciary has not become more independent than, of course, our country has become more equal in relation to other countries. But that's another kind of story already. There are those here who think they're more invited to talk about this, that they understand it better. But when it comes to patriotism, I don't think there are any more invited. At least for the last 20 years, it's given me the right to say it. The same applies when it comes to international relations and the fulfilment of Article 36 of the Treaty of Accession, in particular points 7, 9, when it comes to meeting the obligations of the Republic of Croatia. The situation in the Republic of Croatia not only thanks to the government's actions but also to the action of all of us and the action of all political parties, because the issue of respect for obligations is not only a matter of government policy, although it is the primary one, but the issue of both actions and other political actors on the political scene. On the one hand, loyalty to European laws cannot be advocated without respecting its own laws at home. It cannot be called for cooperation in fulfilling certain obligations undertaken while at the same time devasting at home what has been acquired and created in the negotiations. Unfortunately, the tensions produced and the tensions that are being maintained and which have returned the country to some aspects in the 1990s show that Croatia is unfortunately not a European country. And those who call on the right to the extraordinary achievements we have achieved during the negotiations should know that it is an obligation for all of us to keep those achievements. Not only the current governments but also the former governments, not only the current ruling parties but also the former ruling parties. As far as the issues of better life are concerned, unfortunately Mr. Prime Minister, if I were to be sure that the Labour Act that the Government proposes will bring a better life to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I would be happy to accept it, but I have not heard enough arguments to support it. I see many more arguments that are doubtful. If there is a need for flexibility in the labour market and labour law mechanism, is it not in itself enough for about 80% of the newly employed in the private sector to have contracts for a certain period of time, where greater fiscalisation, where is greater flexibility? Is the law that has been passed since 2003 so rigid that it has prevented it from being fired almost, that the job is lost by bankruptcy, either by severance or by some third way that we do not know what it is and how large it is in the full range of that word, to tens of thousands of people in the Republic of Croatia. In other words, if I were to be sure that it would rebirth our economy and make it easier for our employers to create new jobs, I would support it, but I'm not sure. But I am certain of another thing, Mr. Prime Minister, which is that the renting and renting nature of the capital that exists in Croatia should be changed. I don't think it's renting if someone has a house and an apartment and that's why they need to be taxed, but I think it's renting if almost 200 billion kunas are stored in bank accounts and interest payments are taken. It's renting. And for this first, I'm pretty sure it's not renting, but it's a minimum of elemental security. Those who advocate the concept of which the property tax should be struck unselectively in this respect and who would like to produce the effect, you cannot pay the tax, sell the property, of course you would like to complete the last privatisation cycle as we have already had. If that guaranteed we'd succeed, I'm not sure. In this regard, unfortunately, Europe today does not provide an example of improving workers' rights, but unfortunately provides a large example of where restrictions and reductions in workers' rights are being provided. And finally, when it comes to the perspective of your commitment to the national interests of the Republic of Croatia neither I nor my club, and I also believe that most citizens of the Republic of Croatia have no reason to doubt because you have so far shown that you have the willingness to protect the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. But this job of protecting the national interests of the Republic of Croatia and trying to build Europe as an equal member country is an extremely demanding and long-term job. Unfortunately, Europe is becoming less and less an equal member country. Some of your replicas could identify the elements of the process that are under way. The European Union is showing less solidarity and not just solidarity to countries that are increasingly underdeveloped and which are going through a growing crisis. What is important to us is that we try to define our policy, given that such a trend is halting the increasing imbalances of the Republic of Croatia compared to other parts of the European Union, compared to other members of the Union, which is a trend. I don't have any particularly revolutionary proposals, but I think it's our obligation here in Parliament to discuss it. I think it's our obligation here in Parliament to ask for information to be delivered to us as it seems. We all expect miracles when they are European funds, and none of us will ask the question of what wonders they are and what profits they get when they are business in Croatia itself. There, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we have not become less committed with this kind of concern when it comes to the European Union, on the contrary. We think that Croatia should strengthen its membership in the European Union, we think that Croatia should build its place within the European Union but in one pragmatic and self-interest based position, as we have heard from the prime minister more than once, in economic and political matters, as well as in geoeconomic issues. If we had more independence in this regard, we could have solved some issues a long time ago and had a better position, but it probably takes a little more consensus in a number of things, including some cases that have burdened us over the past months, but we obviously don't have that kind of readiness, so we need to create it and we need to sort of fight it here in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67110	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. Branko Vuksic signed up first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67111	Dear fellow Pupovac, you have asked indeed three key questions. The first question is whether we are a more European country since 1.7.2013. The second question is whether citizens in Croatia are better in Croatia, Croatia and what is the perspective of Croatia and the European Union. You said, you made one recommendation that it was better to discuss it than to draw conclusions, which is correct. We're getting less and less agreeable, less and less for sale. For example, if the question were to be put on the agenda whether we live better or worse, most of us certainly would vote out to answer that question if we lived better. When you talked about the judiciary, all that happens about lex Perkovic is the consequence of the chaos of the devasted judiciary. We had two examples of how the judiciary works. I'm not going to say what's more negative than that. And one question that you also referred to is the Labour Act. No country in the EU has made it out of the crisis in cheap work, to the disenfranchisement of workers. I don't know if the Prime Minister has read everything in this paper to write in the draft Labour Act, that the employer has the right to quit, to quit his business, and to accept him on the second day of employment as an agency employee. Where does that make sense? What's the logic here? The logic is to hang the workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67112	Thank you. The second replica stands for Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67113	Comrade Pupovac, you have warned on the subject of the Labour Act I would only remind you that there are two aspects to the problem. The first one's procedural. The government put the parliament in a position to be an arbiter because there was no agreement between all those who had to reach that agreement. So we will be forced here to arbitration between the social partners that should have ended with a tripartite content agreement. And whenever in Croatia it was that way, it never worked out well since the Labour Act. And the other problem is content. These constant messages that, by facilitating the layoff of workers, we open up the possibility of new employment. Not only this information about a specific contract at a certain time over 80% of all employees, especially after 2003, some moment for employers to actually bypass not only the Labour Act but also the few remaining collective agreements through the Borrowing and Renting Agency. That, in the case of employers up to 20 employees, the protection mechanisms of the Labour Act are practically not valid, they do not exist because they are not applicable to them. This is also hidden from the public that these employers up to 20 employees are just excluded from much of the challenging parts of the provisions. And finally a flexible labour market. Never has a country, not a left, not a single Social Democratic Party in Europe succeeded unless at the same time developed the possibility of territorial labour migration, and it depends on housing policy, pre-school education, education system and in Croatia refuses to discuss it at all, and therefore it is not good that we here in Parliament have to arbitration on this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67114	It's the Prime Minister again. Here you are, dear Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67115	So the Labour Act is also part of the European complex. I will appeal again to what I am, reminding myself of what I was saying and asking you what would be the government's motives, ministers, for me to go with something so suicidal, self-destructive. Why would he do that? Why? Who's the employer? The employer is an average of some or some average small business person who has decided to enter some kind of adventure, put himself at risk, very often pawn personal property, which is on the current clock here one of the representatives, now there is no, commented, when he commented on a single loan that the man also pawned his own assets for the loan. So some people find it amazing because they're used to different things without anyone's property just to take. But yeah, people do that, too. So they're not all renters. Most people are in trouble. I've got a lot or at least ten friends and acquaintances from primary and high school who finish colleges and work, have drives, hire 20, 50, 150 people. They're in desperate condition. No one can make them hire anyone. They just don't know what to do with themselves. Their responsibility is great. It's the spine of the economy that's ours. It should at least be in production and services and in trade. These people won't be forced to work, they won't hire, they'll counter, they'll stop working. I always say, let's get back to the hot. What's the motive? What would be the motive of this government except that it's out of its mind to suggest something that exists in a number of other countries. Why would we do that? Because when you listen to this compassionate, sad, empatic voice, a man's heart melts. It's a huge concern for the workers, but behind it hides exclusively in my court, so political calculations. My message to people is this way won't help you. And to you fellow, I'm still suggesting that we go through these provisions in detail, not to speak at the level of the general impression. So, to worry us, I am most concerned because I cannot tell you for any of these provisions with certainty or guarantee that they will get the effect that we want to gain. It's just a risk area. But you know what the biggest risk for Croatia is? To stay with this sweet-talking beating the way it's been. And how is he now? It's not good. Why is that? I think I know why. And I'm gonna go back to what the states did 10 years earlier. When you listen to interventions here and object, it seems disastrous. So someone wants a whole category of people to turn black to make some kind of renter rich. Let's go identify the renters, let's cut their fair taxes. We're already working on it! But what about those thousands, so not tens of thousands, thousands of entrepreneurs who want to do something, make a profit, who want to be in debt, unlike those of some of the former parties, pawn their own property and houses and cottages. People do that, they pay their wages as much as they can, and they live on it plus some travel expenses. So, hard. What do we do with them? How are we gonna get them to open jobs, offer jobs? These people are going to retreat, they're going to leave, they're going to close jobs. Motive, motive is a key question that should always be asked. Why is someone doing something? Why is someone like you telling someone holy? Someone is being consecrated, so he makes a mockery of Croatia, someone he used to drink coffee with, and you and I don't know him, he's never been in our lives. Why does someone do that, motives? In this case, a guilty conscience. In this case, political motives, a desire to like. I'm worried about you. I love you. I'm worried about you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67116	Three replicas have been reported for this exhibit. Branko Vuksic first answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67117	Mr. President of the Croatian Government, we beat the workers, so you say, you beat the businessmen. On one occasion in an interview, it seems to me that Mr. Todorovic has threatened to go and close jobs, leave Croatia, that he has had enough of these pressures. He didn't close because if Mr. Todorovic had closed it, he wouldn't have closed it, but he would have sold it, some other employer would have come and he would have done the same, and perhaps more successfully, business than he did. So this kind of threat will all shut down their jobs unless the Labour Act changes. What's the motive? You've been convinced that what you're doing is right, they've convinced you of that. We who, you say, protect workers, only protect for political calculation. Our entire party is protecting only because of political calculations to profit from the elections. Because you don't believe in honesty. You're probably not honest either, so that's why you don't believe that there are honest people and that there are really people who are afraid of it. And they're afraid of it because it's manipulation. Do you know what is the situation in Croatian companies, that large capitalists in Croatia do not allow union organisation, that labour inspectors should not come to their businesses, they simply must not. That's what we said a hundred times here. That catastrophic employment is indefinite. If 80% are through a contract that's on time, if we're going to introduce agencies that will be able to hire at the moment that the workers are fired. Do you know how many receipts are in those agencies, how many profits are in those agencies? You did not bring any more thorough footage of the state of the labour market in Croatia with the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67118	The replica corresponds to Prime Minister Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67119	Here's how you run away from the subject. So you immediately came to the largest capitalist in Croatia from which I specifically fenced myself in my performance and said I'm not talking about it, I'm talking about that huge environment without which there is no Croatian entrepreneurship. But you don't mind, but it's a question of rhetorical ethics. I want you to stick to the biggest one that can't actually fail and has a special weight. So no one mentioned him, and I specifically fenced myself from it. Let's go back to the facts I was talking about. So, to beat people up. You beat, you're not real, and you promise them things that can't be promised. 80% of new employees are on contracts for certain work, for a certain period of time. How do we get out of this situation? Here's my question. I'd be the happiest because we're a lot of cousins in Dalmatia who don't work, to make employers, but not these big ones, but these middle-aged ones who retreat into themselves. I was talking about them, and you know it, so they hire 100 people tomorrow, or we close them down. That's impossible. You understand? No one's ever done that. So we need to look for transitional solutions. It hurts, doesn't kill but hurts, it's painful and takes a while. We're trying to make it possible for people to catch fish themselves, to catch them themselves. And you don't, you don't even give them fish, you tell them about fish. There's no fish, under these circumstances she's gone. This isn't politically comfortable what we have to do, this is costing and costing a political one. And maybe it should have been done sooner. So I'm going to tell you one more time, I was talking about one thing, and you immediately ran off into the third thesis and started talking about the greatest capitalist, whatever it was called, the entrepreneur, so to the man whose company is also under a great burden of debt and has to expand to survive and move on and be in debt. It's a very difficult process. And we can talk about it, but I don't care about him here and I don't care about him like that. I'm interested in that environment without which economy it doesn't have. Those people will be dead soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67120	Second replica, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67121	Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, you're looking for motive. The motive may be ignorance or misunderstanding of the Corps of Labour, Labour and Social Laws. I could give you two motives. I can also talk about the impact or over-opening of the valve that the European left has opened towards liberalism without a feedback valve, so from this liberal economy and political attitude, a part of what should not have entered into the social democracy and left. Anything's possible. But don't respect me for the lack of understanding of this matter, because in 1992, when Croatia received the first general collective contract for the economy, it was '95. The first Labour Act in Croatia, the first of '95, all these discussions were about then the same... the same argument. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And always the ruling team has forgotten the third segment of legislative provisions and frameworks. It is not disputed that employers should be allowed to operate in as good a way as possible. But there is a third partner, third party - state. So it's not the government. It's the state. What is the role of the state in the labour market? That he has a Employment Service where statistics count unemployed, end, point. That's not true. That third segment is all the time lagging out. And that, in parallel with the proposal of the Labour Act, this acceptance has been developed, which, unfortunately, will lead to the first two to three years of application of this Law on the work of increased layoffs and reduced number of people, you are right. Then the resistances and fears would be less. But look at the arguments written in the reasoning of the law, read what is written, and you may understand why we do not trust a minister who simply out of ignorance convinces some of the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67122	And this replica corresponds to Prime Minister Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67123	It's fortunate that you know all this together and that you've been elected to a council of citizens, so with the original mandate but that you're terrified of the possibility that you're now deciding on something like you said you're arbiting and I'm asking you nicely what's your job? That before that, the government in the war is exhausted with union partners, one of which has their own interests, others do not want to move by one millimeter, and you encourage them to do so. You don't discuss specific things, you don't speak at all what the law says, you call for an explanation. First we read the law. If it's not clear, the explanation. It's at least for me a method of interpretation of the law. The laws that need to be interpreted too much we have seen these days, or we have not seen, are not good laws but most of the laws are quite clear and the courts apply it, judge by the basis of the law. The foundations of the law are determined by the Parliament as well as by the Constitution. Therefore, we are going back to what is basic, so say specifically what Croatia is offering at the moment, what does the government offer? Let go of the explanations, read articles that do not have a large majority of European countries. It's not ignorance, it's just like that, it's no big mind job, it's no special knowledge of that matter, it exists everywhere. What's the role of the state? The role of the state is therefore government as a representative of the state at this point is that when everyone is stalling, when everyone's messing around, when everyone's emptically telling people that they love them and actually working against them. If someone said, look, we tried and now we can't. It's just that if you're going to support it, but we can't anymore, it's your responsibility, that's why people chose you. And yet you know better why they chose you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67124	Third and last replica and respected Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67125	Mr. Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to say that I do not doubt your motives, nor your government's motives. You would like to find as quickly as possible and as effective as possible how to create assumptions for the empowerment of our economy as possible, as well as assumptions for job creation. What I, of course, can put into the category of traditionally left-wing people, is missing arguments that it will really be and what I miss about this thing, whether there is only one school economical that guarantees the possibility of economic recovery and creates jobs, or whether it is the one that is based on the fact that it is easier to lay off, to reduce the balance of labour rights including wages. So, I've kidnapped two things. And I have no reason to doubt your motives yesterday or today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67126	And this replica corresponds to Prime Minister Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67127	Question, how many ignorances can be a formal logical motive? It may be the cause, but the motives are, I'm glad you don't doubt those motives, but we're going to have an Empirical, Social Democracy, so once it was protecting primarily industrial workers, and it was more qualified. They've seen Western societies break down for decades. Today's social democracy is acting under the conditions of a complete change in the structure of the labour market in which industry no longer exists. This practically does not exist more significantly in Croatia or Germany as a share. In Germany even above average much compared to Great Britain and some other countries, these are facts. So, which middle-level income country has managed to reach a high level of social security and material well-being over the last 30 years with, say, such rigid, therefore, socialist, old-socialist labour legislation, none. We have very liberal, for my taste of the liberal systems of the Baltic states that literally change according to week, according to needs, they go with wages 20, 30% down, as you noticed, we don't do that. So we're much more sensitive and sensitive in these things. But this is about middle-income countries, what colleagues from the Labour Party are calling for, who took the Western British name of the party of work or the Labour Party can afford it to countries like Denmark, Sweden has long since given up and is richer than ever, so relatively compared to others but now has social problems of another kind. It can afford Norway which is a class for itself, Switzerland which does not do so because it can afford, Germany already harder because it had to go into reform because it bothered her. That's the facts. So no middle-aged state, no society, no country, middle-income economy has been removed from that space by this approach to labour legislation, they just stagnated. The whole of Europe is talking about it, and those who have been rigid I end up in this crisis have come to the initial positions of the 1970s, these are numbers as a tear clear and that is life, that is real, it has nothing to do with sentimentalism, and you tell people fairy tales.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67128	Before we go on vacation, we will hear more points of the HNS Club and colleagues Joza Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So this is the first report which, in fact after half-yearly membership of the EU, and perhaps this report more than the following reports can be convenient for learning about the EU and learning from the EU if possible, and if it is worth the rule that in our decision-making and country-leading business, it is important to choose knowledge regardless of what we sometimes or very often do not respect but I think it is, then it is particularly important to know how to conduct EU affairs, i.e. keeping a country's affairs in the EU, because it is a very complex body and a fundamental prerequisite for them to succeed there. There you can't win on the noise, on the force, on the manipulations. Perhaps some who are big can only gain knowledge there for a clear plan of what they really want and therefore it is good that we learn as much about the EU as possible, that we perceive, of course, its weaknesses where it goes sometimes to the foreign roads because it is also not perfect and is not one-way. So what I'm going to say will always be a reflection on this subject in some way, the topic of learning about the EU. What is the content of these two reports is essentially only a small part, but including the most important things that are at all the work of European bodies. The European Council, of course, cannot cover all policies and all topics covered by other European bodies such as the Commission, such as Parliament, but in fact the most remarkable topics and these bodies cover, so that this is a demonstration of some of the most fundamental issues, the most important topics in the EU. The economic and monetary union is certainly very important and, of course, the issue and weakness of the EU that happened to it in such a crisis, it is its weakness, it speaks of that it is not a perfect body and, of course, it is important that as soon as possible, these two mechanisms, one for solving banking problems and difficulties, and the other for the control of these difficulties, and of course, Croatia cannot make much of a contribution there and is not invited. This is probably not a topic where we could point out something special and achieve something particularly good for ourselves, provide. The second topic discussed is the single market for communication, the Internet. It's a very important topic. The theme of the future. This is not only about the development of this branch, but this branch, the development and the branch is a presumption of other branches, and of course we need to use what is a single European regulation in this sense, the regulation of that market makes it possible because our regulation of that market is very, very primitive so far and therefore there is a lot of deformation on that market, a lot of extra profits, a lot of damage to the rights and interests of citizens, and therefore it is good that we simply get involved in that market and there is not much to mention too much there, but I fully support that the Prime Minister has opened up on the Council in September on that of course, and it is a matter of generous tax profits, there must be such that, of course, and small countries, those who will not have those four or five operators when it is concentrated, that they also have tax profits. And that should be said, it is not a specific Croatian interest, but it has been well said by the fact that in December the Council welcomed the establishment of a special working group to deal with the tax issues of the Digital Single Market and urged the European Commission to submit a report to the European Council. Some other topics for us are absolutely not particularly important in my opinion, and there are topics that are not well affected in my opinion or at EU level. For example, the last important content of the Council in December is a common defence and security policy that is very difficult and painfully born and it was clear that no breakthrough at that Council meeting will be because that the breakthroughs in the area of the common foreign and then the defence policies should be a much deeper political preparation that was not here and it was, in my opinion, a ritual meeting in which we couldn't even get much. But also when the EU is doing wrong or doing things slowly and then we need to be there and see what is happening, such as in terms of the European Monetary Union, in my opinion, there are surplus mechanisms which are the fruit of some political relations again. I think that growth and employment is sufficient European semester, its good setting and its good implementation, and here we have a pact for development and employment, so we have a partnership for development and employment. All these bodies need to be understood, recognized, seen which are important, which are ritualistic and see where our participation can bear fruit for the Republic of Croatia. What is particularly important, it will be the subject of the European Council only in March in my opinion, there is an area of our special interest. The energy market, the creation of a single European energy market, the single regulation of that market, is a special topic where Croatia can find its own interests. We have a work programme in the Croatian Parliament that is very extensive. I have been peeking at the Dutch Parliament's Lower House programme these days, which has only a few questions to be addressed. Three questions about the subsidiarity check, so some kind of political issue and just four issues of special so-called. Parliamentary reserves. And that's it. We should also at the level of the Government and its bodies and at Parliament level probably endure a permanent restriction, reducing these issues and seeing which of the several hundred issues or how many of us we have in our work programme, which two, three, four, perhaps one issue is particularly important for Croatia and this issue is specifically devoted and everything we do that year so that we can achieve the goal on that single issue either on those two or on those three issues. So that's what our interest is and of course we can't just manage it all. And I will conclude therefore by learning from the EU and when it works badly. Here is the reference to regulation fitness, the idea we had here in Croatia, that was the HITREEZ on reducing, reducing the number of legal and sublegal regulations, which is a very problematic job at all. How can you take out a document in a developed legal system and get to the legal void that you need to skip, in the case of Croatia, it was only fog. It's not possible to make it worse for the country's legal system. but it is interesting to monitor what will happen to this EU REFIT to see which mistakes are possible so that we do not go this way again if this is a foreign road or to extract some good elements from what is happening there. So the EU is certainly an opportunity, it also has its difficulties but the prerequisite to achieve its goals there is to know what is going on there and to know what we want. And I am afraid that in Croatia we are still far from defining this precisely, and therefore I call for full commitment to these topics, and that these secondary topics that dominate Croatian political lives are in some way driven out of it and devoted to these issues that life means. So I formally conclude, the club of representatives of the HNS will support this report by the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67130	Thank you. Before the break, we will also hear the president of the government of respected Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67131	Maybe a little boring, but since this opportunity should be fully exploited, this is a parliamentary debate. What MP Radoš said, Mr. Radoš may be the most important thing today, and that others are not offended, including what I was saying, I did not say this, the ability to distinguish itself from the irrelevant in the conditions of limited ability and the resources of money you have, people are the key thing. Of course, here I'm not going to suggest, so I'm glad you said that, which is what the Dutch Parliament does, so one of the richest states in Europe and the world, but not only the rich, but it's one eternal administration and all sorts of things, it shows that this problem is being approached by routineists. Of course, we can't go overnight to that level, we have less material and human resources, it's very important that we focus on what we focus on, but it takes a certain level of political culture and attempts and mistakes. So the Parliament is currently engaged, so maybe the government with too many things. I don't expect us to achieve what you've been talking about in a few years, but if in more than a few years we can get to what we recognize as important, it's a big deal, right now it's what we can't do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67132	Thank you. And now I'm advertising a break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. It will be the HDSSB and Boro Grubisic's club next. Here's the prime minister now informs me that at 15.00 hours he has an agreed foreign policy meeting with the Russian Deputy Prime Minister so he won't be here, of course, because he has to respect the previously agreed commitments. He'll be back after that. Bon appetit. It's a 13,35 o'clock meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67133	HDSSB and counterpart Boro Grubisic's club. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67134	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, indeed, very few colleagues and colleagues. After this break, I hope we get together even though there is no Prime Minister, so I'm a little embarrassed and embarrassed to talk about something that he's exhibited, and here I'm going to try to comment on, or in the debate, say the position of the HDSSB Club and my personal opinion. It is, in fact, a report on the meeting of the European Council held in December 19th and 20th December and before 24th and 25th October and in the spirit of those regulations that we have brought into line with European legislation, the prime minister is obliged to submit this report to the Croatian Parliament what he has done. And there was a lot to talk about, it was about both the first and second meetings and the points held in Brussels. There have been talks about, first of all, about, telling us what is most disturbing, Croatia's economic development on the unemployed, then the rural development strategy, the enlargement of the Union, the labour law, the harmonisation and harmonisation of Europeans with Croatian laws, and even those of our internal political topics of the deficit of the state budget, the abolition of parafiscal burdens etc.. In the European Union, I will start from the beginning, so there are 26 million medium and small entrepreneurs. And yet, a year or two ago, the European Parliament, so even before it is a permanent topic in the European authorities and the European Commission and the European Parliament and the European Council, has therefore discussed how to encourage this above all, as it is said in the English text, so small and medium-sized enterprises, how to encourage exactly these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to work. So it is said if each of these companies would hire one, per man, one person, to be newly employed in the European Union 26 million. If we reflect this on Croatia and Croatia, we would get for our opportunities and for our numbers an impressive, significant number of new employees and the way it is discussed in the European Council is primarily the help of banks in, therefore, the work of these medium and small enterprises. It is clear that through various injections, there has been a recovery of the banking system in Europe, and it seems to me that it has already been very certain in some countries that there has just been a recovery of the small and medium-sized economy mainly in Germany. Will we and how and how these measures that have been taken so far start from reducing health contributions from 15% to 13%, so we get a boomerang in the form of hospital losses and 2 billion kunas are set aside in, for these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and total for the economy. So, the effects of such a policy that is spoken of here by the prime minister are not seen on the Croatian economy, it is increasingly sinking unlike the European one they say is coming out and coming out of recession. What the prime minister did not say was this case that we had, and which was almost Croatia, was sanctioned, which is the application of the European arrest warrant, the change of the law three days before the entry into the European Union, so one, I would say to the violent method of voting the majority of such a law and then re-return, the return of that same law. And so here we have this case of applying a European arrest warrant. It was a matter of justice and not of the government in which it stepped and almost earned sanctions from the European Union, according to senior officials of the European Union, mainly Mrs Reding. There wasn't much to talk about. But here's what wasn't the subject of the meeting. Although it is said here that Mr. Milanovic was here on one occasion "thete-a-tete" in order to say French, the translation would literally say "head to head" or "in four eyes", let's translate in Croatian, and we could translate it in such a way as not "thete-a-tete", few people know French so it's hard, it wasn't hard to translate, says four eyes with Mr. Barroso. The rebalancing of the state budget here was already in advance, I would say, clearly, that the European Union is looking for 3% of the government budget deficit, we have 6%. We knew this before the adoption of the 2014 budget. Nevertheless, the budget deficit for 2014 is foreseen. So it is not clear to me that if the European Union is already seeking a reduction or at least a gradual slowdown by 2016, the budget deficit would have gone almost to the same deficit as it was for 2013. Therefore, in this budget adopted again by the parliamentary majority in this House, it was not at all counted on these European Union rules on the deficit of the state budget of not more than 3%. Despite all these measures that Mr Milanovic was talking about, we received a package from the agency... where it is said clearly and loudly that Croatia did not actually use in 2013 that the results expected from Croatia's entry into the European Union were not good, they were not good enough, they were not enough, and that half of the year we applied 270m euros for our monetary applications to the European Union would be far away, that we would withdraw from the European Union through pre-accession funds far more. That didn't happen. It happened that Croatia withdrew only 6m euros more than it paid. If we continue at that rate and do not withdraw more funds than we are paying, which is 600 million euros, it is not the 4 billion that Mr. Cain is talking about here, so 600 million euros when the good budget, even more than 4.5 billion kuna, and if Croatia is not able and ready to withdraw more funds, then we will really come into a situation if we withdraw as much as we have paid that it will be good. But in this case, the European Union chooses projects, not Croatia. In that case, we're not the owners of that money. We're the owners of someone else. Or maybe it's someone's goal? There's no Prime Minister to ask, and maybe he'll come and answer. But when we look at all these meeting topics, then we see that there was a so-called. and the Eastern Partnership, but the enlargement of the negotiations is also mentioned, the entry into the negotiations of our neighbouring Republic of so-called eastern Serbia with the European Union and it is said that Croatia will take a friendly position. I am not in favour of anyone who is hostile, but I am in favour of an objective and realistic position, and in any case it is not a statement given by Mrs Pusic, and also Mr Milanovic, that the search for 1200 is still the names or people who have disappeared in the war, most likely suffered, that we will be told, and then we will be satisfied with the Republic of Serbia and give it all the support we have, and we have already provided it as far as I know, that the Republic of Serbia would join the European Union, although it is known that despite all the good wishes and friendly relations of the Republic of Croatia and its officials, as I have already said, will not be extended by the European Parliament's decision last year in Strasbourg at the plenary session until 2020, there is no entry or enlargement of the European Union. That is what Mr Milanovic needs to tell us loud and clear. But before that, I don't know how Mr. Milanovic thinks about Slovenia and Croatia's relations, I guess, with friendly relations. On the same friendly principles and principles Croatia has the right, it has the right to resolve the territorial dispute, in fact it is not a dispute, it is according to all international contracts at half of the Danube demarcation, but what is grant, cadastrian and private ownership of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is over 10,000 hectares in Bačka and plus Šarengradska and Vukovar Ada. I told Sarengrad that it is ruled by the Bačka Palanca Police Department, and it determines how many forests someone can cut down and who can cut it down. Serbia's MUP is under control today. That is until it is resolved and if it is not subject to talks and agreements in the Council of Europe, but also talks with Serbia can hardly agree to such a friendly denial of Croatia from its own territories. It's nowhere to be found. No country would give up on behalf of friendly or I don't know what kind of relationship. It is hostile to the Republic of Croatia, it is hostile to the Republic of Croatia. And whoever implements that policy, it is an enemy policy towards the Republic of Croatia itself. About relations with BiH, it is not yet, along with the Ada, which Mr Milanovic tells me that I don't even know whose property it is, it is owned by the Republic of Croatia today and the Croatian police are at Ada near Croatia's Kostanica. Zrinski is in the full sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and there is no talk about it, nor is there any more discussion about it. There are other issues. It is clear that during the signing of Mr Mesic and Mile Djukanovic, there are still some minor territorial claims made by Montenegro towards the Republic of Croatia, but I think it is easier to resolve it, mainly because our fishermen in Vitalina, in Molunt, in Bokokokotor Bay, are being stopped by Montenegro, today by Montenegro, once the Yugoslav Navy. I can't even get 100 yards off the coast on a fishing boat. This has to be resolved before I say almost I would say the applications and Montenegro and Serbia and BiH. A particular problem and I have pointed out here on several occasions, and these government gentlemen are not taking into account at all, is the solution to the ecological problem of Slavonski Brod. As a condition for accession to the negotiations between Bosnia and Herzegovina must be, therefore, the ecological solution to the refinery in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what we're right about. And to appeal to Fadeev's case against Russia, we have the right to either sue the European Court of Human Rights, and we will win a dispute with Bosnia and Herzegovina, or so on. Republika Srpska, which houses a Russian refinery in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which pollutes both air and water and people and plants in Slavonski Brod and its surroundings, almost 100,000 inhabitants. And Slavonski Brod is now the EU. From this position of ours, therefore, membership in the Union itself has the right to ask such questions and solutions to countries that are surrounded. It is no ultimatum, it is no blackmail but a simple demand, a demand for its rights when it comes to the refinery of a healthier life, and Europe is particularly looking out for environmental protection and the nature of environmental factors. So, and on territorial issues we must understand that we would say the advantage Slovenia had when it was a member of the EU and negotiated, so with Croatia on territorial issues. What about hiring young people? 20,000 [[Strebec: Collateral Time.]] How so fast? [[Grebec raid: Time's up.]] Come on, it'll be a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67135	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67136	Dear fellow Grubisic, when you spoke about all these problems, you did not mention one, and we often talked here, which is the attack of Italian TV and television stations on the Croatian coast and Croatian islands. When we asked the Minister for answers in Parliament why the Croatian state did not do anything until 1.7.2013, we said we cannot hold back the Italians until we are in the EU. What have we done so far? Nothing. That's when he said, the agency said she sent a thousand protests with letters. Is this settled at that level? And when you're talking about friendship and hostility you should first when talking about friendship say that sentence let's define what friendship is. In politics, the word and concept of friendship are often used without any need. We need to maintain good neighbourly relations, but it's hard to maintain good neighbourly relations with those who still have territorial claims toward you. So it's kind of a good neighborhood that's hard to cultivate, let alone friendship. So when our statesmen declare or base some relations on friendship, it is absolutely certain that it is not state behaviour, but as Prime Minister Milanovic can say, either advocacy or a beating is unnecessary because it does not defend the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Because the Gandhiian attitude toward those who despise Gandhi does not result in any effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67137	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67138	A colleague of Vuksic and one and the other what you said is actually beginning to actually say to the weakly defended Croatian interest in the Eu. So either there is virtually no interest in this government in Croatian interests in the EU, and we only follow how everything goes together. Here's the prime minister here told us what it was, so I wish he hadn't talked to Barroso President of the European Commission "thetata" but that he had said some things there in favour of Croatia. The signal of radio and television in Dalmatia is, indeed, also on the top of Velebit being distracted by many and many Italian stations, and we cannot solve it. We've joined the EU. What are we doing? How can we not solve this when there are telecommunications agencies of Europe, etc. We have these digital systems, digitization of Europe, etc. And what are we, where is the Croatian interest shown? In fact, this is anti-Croatian or not Croatian action or not action. Good neighbourly relations, yes, but you saw for yourself that the foreign minister immediately painted herself with Vukic there and immediately declared Croatia's great friendship and concern for Serbia's EU accession. I don't mind Serbia entering the EU. But what part was for Croatia to be there amongst those who were invited to testify to the act. I guess the leading forces and the EU are clearly Germany, France, England, etc. No, we painted ourselves there and there was a statement to tell us what 1200 missing people are and that's what Serbia should do the first day after it joins the EU. Interestingly, it's not interesting, it's sad actually.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67139	And Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67140	Thank you. When you mention these problems that we have around the Croatian borders, there may be one more thing that should also be mentioned, this is the issue of the economic belt in the Adriatic, or at least the ecological component of the economic belt in the Adriatic, as well as one topic where Croatia should certainly be more active and, within the framework of now and the EU institution to represent its interests, or as sovereign still sovereign EU Member States, do what some other EU countries have done on this issue and on the protection of not only Croatian economic interests but also the protection of the Croatian Adriatic by declaring the economic belt, or at least by declaring the ecological component of the economic belt. When you talked about opening jobs, I think what we all actually noticed was that the simple government failed to make the Croatian product cheap enough by reducing the pressure on the labour price, at the price of raw materials, at the price of energy, to make it cheap enough to produce it in Croatia to make this product competitive. So, that is, the work of the Croatian government, and I think the subversive is evident. It's a continuum submergement, not only is he in charge of this government, but it is within this period of mandate as long as this mandate is going on. Therefore, boasting about the reduction of parafiscal burdens on the one hand, and on the other hand, the pressure parafiscal on the other hand, again at the price of the same product, in fact ultimately collects the product however we turn, or on the other hand, significantly reduces the purchasing power of Croatian citizens and the standards of Croatian citizens. So I don't think we've actually welcomed measures to support middle and small entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67141	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67142	Comrade Djurovic, thank you for asking. I'm so glad you asked the so-called question. Let's cut ZERP short what it used to be called. You know for yourself that both HDZ and SDP used this ZERP always before the elections. So, the protection of our Adriatic Sea either in the ecological, either economically or from the extraction, from the protection of nature, the protection of the submarines, etc. When the election starts, it starts to talk about ZERP. When other choices go that way again. But in fact, the real intention to do so, the real intentions were never meant to be. Not with either one, not with the other. It is now an opportunity that, in the European family, 28 countries and even more and peoples are finally actually through European institutions, and I was talking about ecology as an important fact and a component of European policy that we do so if we have a good will. Unfortunately, it seems to me that not only will our sea belong to Italian fishermen but it will also end the hydrants because they start with H, first voice or first letter is H. Croatian products, so that our producers will even compete, so they will be competitive with imports when you know for yourself when you go to any of the stores, supply chains that it's importable there so that I don't say trash cheaper than all our similar products. Why? You have accurately detected, so parafiscal imposes and everything that goes to the collection of Croatian products as if it were done on purpose, as if someone were doing it on purpose to actually ruin the Croatian economy and, in fact, Croatia as a state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67143	Vice President Zeljko Reiner is not present, so he loses his right to debate on this point. It's Comrade Jasen Mesic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67144	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A little bit of this debate, given the schedule of speakers and speakers, was late, given that the Prime Minister is missing, and he is directly relying on his report. I will try to say what I think is important because the Prime Minister spoke about the situation in the EU, he also spoke about current developments in the EU and also mentioned the reforms that the Croatian government is carrying out in certain sectors in order to be compatible and ready and respond to these topics in the EU. Among other things, he mentioned that they are also implementing reforms, that the government is implementing reforms in the cultural sector, which I think is total nonsense because the Ministry of Culture in 2 years has not released any single law other than 10 articles, and related to the "Croatian House" Foundation or "Croatia House" which of course has not yet been brought to life. The government of the Republic of Croatia failed with the help of the mother ministry to release no single strategic document in two years, none alone. And these amendments and additions to the laws that were passed were mainly about changing articles on how to choose new leaderships or leaders either in HRT or in HINA, or in HNK, etc. and so much closer. I am not saying this because it is not said or because I want to harass the vice-president of the government, but because the EU culture sector has 5% of its employees and they are achieving over 4% of GDP. So when you compare it to Croatian opportunities, when you know that in publishing in the Republic of Croatia there are 11,000 people, directly or indirectly, then you realize what kind of economic branch this is. When you look at that one of the few budget items in the next EU budget period called Creative Europe 2013-2020, it is the head in which the cultural and media programmes are united because the EU has seen that the correct media policy that supports and the culture shown on the media works synergyly and thus is realized... The effect of culture is closer to the citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They therefore have a better approach, while at the same time using real public media resources and in some ways automatically doing marketing for cultural institutions that, on the basis of their own income, satisfy most of the costs of the cold drive of cultural institutions. In addition, funding strategies, for example the restoration of cultural heritage, where it is stimulated to restore priority cultural heritage that has a new purpose for itself and, as such, is partly financed from EU funds, and the state is stimulated to ensure that 25, 30 or 50% participation depends on which project. In a completely different way, co-finances and suggests co-operation in international cultural exchanges, and when you add all of this together, then if you set up reforms in the culture sector, the limited and part of the budget available to you can be redistributed to those sectors of culture and to those areas in culture that cannot in any way achieve income on the market and have them. And that's strategically important for the Republic of Croatia because as a country, a people of 4.5 million people we have entered into integration practically five hundred where the issue of preserving cultural identity is a strategic matter of the future. What reforms has the Croatian Government been implementing in the culture sector for the last two years? What law, which provision in the Republic of Croatia's budgets, has been adapted to this situation in the EU to catch up to catch up with these trends in the EU. Tabularaza, amendments and additions to the law on reform of cultural institutions and speech, on the preparation of EU culture projects for funding for the EU or speech. You have one single project that was prepared in 2011 and when you write about the government's work report and individual ministries for the past two years then on the portal of the ministry concerned they write to you incorrectly and falsely, stating that they were doing what someone had done before them. I personally don't mind that these projects continue but then at least it is correct to write it so, in which the reforms are done by the Croatian Government that I know what the Prime Minister was talking about, I'm sorry he's not here. I repeat, almost 5% of the employees, only in publishing works over 11,000 people in the Republic of Croatia. Give me an industrial branch that has so many employees and achieves almost 5% of GDP. We're talking about some floscules, reforms, it's so simple. You change the culture budget by funding from the restoration of cultural goods only what is priority and what is carried out by the main institution. The rest of you are reorientating, helping to prepare EU funding projects and ensuring that the two participations that individual local administrations and self-government cannot provide themselves and thus stimulate the development of new projects. You drag them away from architects, experts, in any way, so that, eventually, from any programme, you can pull out small and medium entrepreneurship, or above all, traditional craftsmanship that is important to you again to preserve cultural identity and this part of the budget releases. You stimulate the translation of Croatian literary works and thus help Croatian publishing to enable it to go to a wider, wider economic market where it can present these literary works, not to talk about further development of the audiovisual strategy and what is now a fruit of what was done in 2010 and 2011 in international co-productions related to the production of audiovisual products or films in the Republic of Croatia. And we from that sector in two years are not one single complete law or at least a nastiness of this which doesn't need too much wisdom. It's nice of you to open a website and simply read the direction Europe is going and, of course, that's why it can keep 5% of the employees in the sector and achieve almost 5% of GDP from that sector. Well, that's what the first Irish understood. With branding a cultural product from music to the mark of a type of infant, they made a worldwide promotion and income. There's not one shirt you can buy that doesn't have that mark on it because it's branded as a cultural product and that makes a profit. What are we doing? We are changing, now we will come for the second or third time to amend the Law on Theatre and we are dealing with amending the Law on the Threatened Whole of the City of Dubrovnik, which will soon pass and this second reading of the law will no longer be compromised. If only we hadn't changed the laws, we'd have prepared a project in these two years that we could have attracted some funds to what I was saying. Two years, none. And now the Prime Minister comes to us and tells us about the reforms in the science, education and culture sector. That's funny. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67145	Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67146	Mr. Mesic, you probably didn't understand the prime minister well, or you didn't read the documents well that there is no reform of the theatre there, but for the second time we are changing the theatre law, we are going to change one article now, we changed two articles and reform the theatre, and that the theatre from the city, county and state theatre is in crisis, not only in these two years, we haven't had a problem with that. Instead of doing what the drama artists were looking for last year, or all those dealing with the theatre, opera singers, conductors, stage designers, directors, full change of theatre law, a new theatre law that would solve all problems. We're really only dealing with human problems, nothing else. We have now solved the human problem and have not solved it in Zagreb, we will now solve the human problem in Osijek, we will throw a little on the water fire, and that is the reform. First, it is not difficult to write a strategy, why the Kukuriku coalition does not bring a media strategy and a strategy in culture, because when you write a strategy you need to make a reform, you need to implement that strategy, they will probably bring the strategy to the final quarter of their mandate, so that then some other government should implement that strategy. There is another strategic document that you have certainly forgotten, which is the Law on HRT where one 15 articles have changed so that the principal director has been given the powers of the directors in communism. Only in communism did the directors have such powers. So these are the strategic measures implemented by this government. I think it's also a shame because Mr. Milanovic said earlier when he was in the Parliament that he would answer some questions in the final word, so I expect him to come back.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67147	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67148	My colleague, I believe that we will experience that day here in the Croatian Parliament to discuss reports from HRT, and then I will especially refer to what you reminded me of. Since our report has been camping somewhere around 60th point of the agenda for over a year, that's as much as we care about our own institutions, which media, which institutions in culture because HRT should actually be in some way. I believe in this Parliament's rendition that if we are persistent and if we believe enough, we will probably experience it in real terms to have a discussion about the 2011 reports. Not from '12, that might be too ambitious at this point. As for that, you well know that in the opposition, we are often told that we are neither constructive, that we do not have concrete and constructive proposals. At least 5 I have now listed them in what way to actually make certain, and not even major reforms so that the part of the funds that remained in culture could be used more adequately and meaningfully. But you know what the problem is, pal? What we can list about such things as much as we want, nor does it interest anyone, nor does it matter to anyone because in some way, they are well and absolutely any concrete proposal regarding any law we have given, none of which are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67149	And Kresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67150	Thank you very much. Comrade Mesic, you say the government and the Ministry of Culture did not go with the bill. However, I want to tell you that we are in the benches here, but we have been very much discussing the Law on Theatres. But that happened when the fire broke out first in Split, after that in Zagreb, and it went with the law as a firefighter when it went to put out the fire and there was a really big damage. This is how it was created in both Split and Zagreb, and it is likely that next week a new proposal of the Law on Theatres will come and the Ministry of Culture will probably become much more harmful in Osijek, instead of fighting together to become the European Capital of Culture in 2020, the Ministry of Culture comes and goes with a new legislative proposal and appoints a V.D. Directors where the city and county have 50-50% property. It's almost like in the INA where Hungary and Croatia have ownership too much, to come to Germany, so it appoints the President of the Administration. So the laws are done by fire and by what is done, and nothing has been done in culture, especially strategically, especially when we are talking about withdrawing EU funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67151	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67152	Comrade Bubalo, I said that no complete law has come. Those laws that have come have been amended by several articles, and these articles exclusively refer to the choice of new leaders or in the way these new leaders are chosen, in which of course the political consensus has been completely wiped out. And you said this well, I have nothing to say to you, it's really about the Law of Theatres, although it's been announced for two years. I don't know what. What is the problem of colleagues, which will continue in the future, which unfortunately neither this nor yours, my replication and appeal that these things change, will not change because in two days you will have a law regarding the protected whole of the city of Dubrovnik where I will bring you 30 letters from all professional associations. So, there is no expert in the Republic of Croatia, they have failed to find it, which will say that these changes and additions to the laws of the good that are done do not exist. It doesn't exist or will ever exist. There is no imno of all living professional associations that are against the adoption of such a law. What do you think Kukuriku coalition colleagues want to listen to us? Not just us, but those people from those professional associations? We'll see. Hope dies last, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67153	My colleagues and colleagues, we are now no longer registered on this agenda point, given that the Prime Minister said he had a certain obligation and that he appeared after individual club presentations. Here, we won't have the final word. I'll close the discussion. We'll vote on the report later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67154	Report by the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings held by the European Council in 2013. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings held by the European Council in 2013. Please make a statement. Who's to suggest a conclusion? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 85 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 4 abstentions have been reached with the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67155	We will now discuss - Final proposal of the Labour Inspectorate Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 588. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by the Minister of Labour and Pension System Dr. Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67156	Dear MPs and MPs, you have before you the proposal of the Law on the Inspectorate of Labour with the final proposal of the Law. The Labour Inspectorate, or the State Inspectorate, was full of stories these days and about the reconstruction of the State Inspectorate itself, and I must say that when the State Inspectorate was formed, that one inspection that should not have been in that State Inspectorate was the Labour Inspectorate. According to all its characteristics, it was not meant to be in that part of the state government but was to be completely separated and tied to the Ministry of Labour and the pension system. I also support this with data from the EU where in all EU countries the labour inspectorate is related to the resolution ministry, except in Poland where it is an independent body. Finally, there were 5 inspections in the State Inspectorate itself, and over 40 inspections were outside the State Inspectorate, and apparently we failed to unite the State Inspectorate in the extent to which it was intended. Therefore, this change that we propose that labour inspection be in the Ministry of Labour and Pension System is also something that is in line with good EU practice and with the effectiveness of the labour inspectorate itself. The labour inspectorate should work on two levels, one at national level where one of the basic tasks of the labour inspectorate is to curb work on black, health and safety at the place of work and that inspection must be effective and must have in its large part and the part that is related to the prevention itself. At European level, we are part of the EU, so we expect that the Labour Inspectorate will work very closely with similar inspections in EU countries, but in the countries of our environment, there is a rapid and effective cross-border exchange of information and clearly that the labour inspectorate will participate in all those legal initiatives at EU level. What are the areas of competence of labour inspection and in terms of protection of workers' health and control of work on black? In the first work each worker must be provided with adequate safety and health protection regardless of whether the contract worker works, whether the worker works on the basis of a contract for an indefinite period of time or is a self-employed person. Special attention will need to be paid to a new category of workers who are increasingly at risk in Europe and who are increasingly paying attention to that category of workers, which is home workers, so workers who work in their employers' homes on various jobs, not just house assistants, gardeners, but all other jobs they do. The EU is working on this plan to make significant steps, so the labour inspectorate is very important in controlling the work of these workers. The protection of young workers, women and migrants and what the labour inspectorate needs to do in particular is to supervise rural areas, which is very clear that this ensures equal coverage of these areas by inspection supervision. In Croatia, temporary employment agencies were established ten years ago. There was no control over them until the last amendments to the Labour Act where the Ministry of Labour became the ministry responsible for the legality of the work and supervision of those agencies. And the labour inspectorate's in his district will have a very large feature in controlling the work of those agencies. The supervision of workers performing seasonal jobs in agriculture, the supervision of workers in isolated places and workers in renewable energy production are new tasks that the labour inspectorate should cover on the basis of those tasks that the EU foresees by 2020. Our labour inspectorate has worked very little in one area that is extremely important, it will also be more important, and this is monitoring in the transport activity, which puts before us a challenge for the labour inspection to be equipped with appropriate means to take effective measures. Croatia must draw up an action plan against working on black and curbing illegal work. This is the EU Agenda, and on this plan we have established cooperation with competent inspectorates and ministries and in the EU as well as in the environment. I note that last year we had a very important Labour Ministers conference based on the suppression of work on black. The special importance of national authorities' cooperation in the field of cross-border cooperation and strengthening the role of labour inspection in order to prevent work on black and Croatian means to take on one of the leading roles, given that the country that has already had significant steps in this area and when we talk about protecting health at work and the work of labour inspection, we must say that this work has been in spite of all the problems that have been such that it has prevented in many illicit and illegal activities. When we talk about the fight against working on black, then the work inspectorate will be manifested as part of which is related to the inspection itself, so the employment of workers and work without a written contract of work or without written written confirmation of a contract of work concluded and without applying for mandatory retirement compulsory health status, therefore the control of the application. Work on the basis of simulated, different, unnamed, mandatory and legal contracts in cases where such work has characteristics of work for which a working relationship is based, as well as not reporting such work on compulsory insurance even though it is about the characteristics of a working relationship. Non-reporting of workers on an appropriate working time, henceforth, the labour inspectorate has worked in the area so far, however, it has been limited both by human and certain legal solutions. Therefore, even with this law that is before you inspectors, we are giving much more power than they had in the State Inspectorate. Unlawful recruitment of foreigners, non-payment of increased salaries to workers and not payment of prescribed public fees. Payment of wages or part of wages on hands without account and payment of prescribed public fees and any other work which is not paid in accordance with the positive regulations. It is an agenda against working on the black and gray economies on which the labour inspectorate will work in the coming years. When we talk about the illegalities established by the Labour Inspectorate within the State Inspectorate. Then according to the 2012 and '13 data. Some 15 thousand controls were found in 2012, 14 thousand 2013 to be over 1300 workers without a contract to work. When we talk about illegally employed workers, they were mostly workers from neighbouring countries, 1130 were in 2013, 183 were illegally employed foreigners. The total number of workers who worked overtime, so in 2012 and 2013, that number was almost the same as 1540, 1383 and we are clear to all that it is not true. That the simple labour inspectorate did not have the opportunity to determine the really overtime work of workers because we know what is happening both in certain parts of the economy and in certain parts of the system. And since when we determine overtime that it is only possible to get it based on the workers' statements, so the worker himself says that he works overtime past the work schedule. But what is quite certain is that with the new powers of the labour inspector we will be able to control that part more effectively. When we talk about weaknesses in this part of the system, we talk to people who have been in the system for many years. And what are the basic remarks that labour inspectors are mostly monitoring the implementation of regulations whose expert preparation holder is the Ministry of Labour and they acted in another body of the state administration, which is why one of the important tasks of labour inspection under the Convention of the International Labour Control Organisation was not sufficiently effectively carried out, which refers to the fact that the expert preparation holder whose implementation is supervised indicates shortcomings in those regulations, the observed abuses in their implementation and the occurrences which are not covered or regulated. By assembling the inspection and the labour ministry, we get a more effective system than we've ever seen before. To the extent that the only regulation, in the same way, regulated the operation of several different inspections, each of which has its own specificities, left a significant preventive advisory action of labour inspection, which is also one of the particularly highlighted tasks of labour inspection in those Conventions of the International Labour Organisation. I note again that when the State Inspectorate was formed, the only inspection that shouldn't have been in the State Inspectorate should not have been in the State Inspectorate was a labour inspection. I also base this on the practice of the European Union countries where no European Union country is within the very special body itself, but is within the Ministry itself and itself. Also, the organisational units in which the work inspector’s tasks were performed operationally, were largely managed by civil servants from the ranks of other inspection services operating in the former State Inspectorate, who knew almost nothing about the tasks of the labour inspector’s office because it was not part of their work which acted on the quality and effectiveness of the performance of the work of the work inspectors. It should also be reminded of the fact that in the short term since the labour inspectors have been acting within the Ministry of Labour received from citizens several submissions indicating the unprofessional work of inspectors and doubts about the conduct of some criminal acts in recent years, which has already been passed on to competent state attorneys. When we talk about whether the labour inspectorate worked at this time or not, I can remind you of the data we have from January 1st to 28th this year. The labour inspectors carried out or started 723 inspections of which 369 in the field of labour relations and 354 in the field of protection at work. In those inspections in the field of working relations, on the basis of the factual situation established so far in these surveillance, labour inspectors have submitted 23 indictments against employers during these 28 calendar days on grounds of reasonable suspicion of the conduct of 44 infringements and have adopted 2 solutions on the temporary prohibition of activity due to black-based work. And 3 solutions, i.e. approvals for the payment participation of persons under the age of 15 in the recording of promotional activities. In the surveillance of labour protection inspectors on the basis of facts found so far in the surveillance carried out, the inspectors made 31 solutions to the removal of 61 different illegalities, made 32 solutions of 41 prohibitions of illegal conduct and submitted 23 indictments for the initiation of 29 violations, which is in favour of the fact that the labour inspection did not cease to work 1.1, but continued to work in its scope what we did all the time and said it would be so. The new organisation of the labour inspection and this law lays down fundamental issues, which are: we establish the establishment of a labour inspectorate, the management of a labour inspector, the conditions for the conduct of inspection work, the supervision of the implementation of the regulations of the work inspector's section and the duties and powers of the labour inspector in order to protect the public interest in the implementation of these regulations. The adoption of the proposed law will create an appropriate legal framework for the operation of the Labour Inspectorate to act as an independent administrative organisation within the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. It should be recalled that labour inspections in all Member States of the European Union, I remind again, work within the Ministry of Labour and is only outside the system in Poland. This way of designing and action of labour inspection should contribute to a faster and easier achievement of one of the important roles of labour inspection towards the Convention of the International Labour Organisation, which is to curb work on black and ensure that workers get what they have earned. The draft law states that labour inspectors would also have some amended powers with regard to detecting illegality, the possibility of collecting the facts of illegalities from the work of the inspectorate, will have advisory and preventive action aimed at combating illegality and, accordingly, amendments to the Labour Act and protection at work are proposed in order to ensure that certain offences are not immediately subject to a mandate, but go first of all a warning, and if you do not remove illegality on the eighth day, there will also be a penalty. This is the most targeted towards small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are very often difficult to comply with in the regulations, and this preventive part will allow them to deal with the law without punishing them for failures that are not in this weight to be punished immediately by dragon penalty. Naturally, those most severe violations of punishment remain as they have been. We allow for more effective punishment of offenders in terms of fines at the place of the offence, i.e. the adoption of infringement orders and the adoption of administrative measures prescribed by specific regulations. As he noted, we have already foreseen this in the Labour Protection Act and the Labour Law. It should be recalled that the possibilities for preventive and advisory action of the labour inspection in so far applicable regulations were minor. By proposing this law and by proposing these two laws, in the vast majority, direct the inspectors to work, except for punishment, in the vast majority, we will direct them towards prevention which is what will lead to better and more effective control. Labour inspection is a fundamental part of the executive authority in the field of work. An effective labour inspection capable of facing the challenges of a changing labour market is an important part of a good government. Labour inspectors are important for protecting workers' rights, preventing their exploitation, preventing unfair competition and social dumping and promoting economic and social development. The economic crisis cannot be an obstacle but an incentive to improve and strengthen labour inspection, including specialist education, and we are doing so with this law and change. Following all of this, we believe that the proposed Labour Inspectorate Act covers all the important issues of protection of workers' rights which can ensure effective labour inspection. The work plan is under way and we will continue to implement the training of the labour inspector and provide funds for their work in the future. Given the number of inspectors and the number of employees in Croatia, we are missing somewhere between 40 and 50 inspectors, and we believe that their number should be increased in the future. Since adoption of the proposed law creates an appropriate legal framework for more effective and professional labour inspection, which should contribute further and more consistent application of labour and labour protection regulations from employers and trade unions to more effective judicial action, and the labour inspectorate is a significant link. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67157	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first in line is... Excuse me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67158	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are discussing a law that says in its article 57: this law will be published in the National Journal, in force on 1 January 2014. So great. It best speaks of the excellent concentration of this government that we had the opportunity to hear this morning from the Prime Minister, and the other thing I'm saying is, this chapter 3 and 4 of the reasonings of this law that are simply ridiculous. To talk about not having the resources needed is simply not true. You at the Ministry of Labour had to provide funds for these people. You could have indicated here that these funds would be transferred from the position of the State Inspectorate. But it's very interesting, you're here to talk about that nothing was right. But what I'm interested in is the assessment of the situation and fundamental issues, how many employees will you take over from the inspector and senior inspectors from the state inspectorate so far and how many civil servants and subsistence officers. If you had written that in an explanation, then this story about the necessary resources would have been completely different. After all, you yourself said that more people will need to be hired and I really want to know if a thousand sundry kunas will save the state budget and what counterparts Linic said today must reduce the deficit by 7.5 billion. But I repeat, colleagues and colleagues, this law entered on 1 January 2014, and today it is 28th, and there, in half of December, we voted for urgency because this law had to be passed by emergency procedure, and as you can see, on January 28th, it has not yet been passed. So much for the urgency and need of urgency, so much for the government's relationship with ministers, and especially for the government's president to the parliament and the parliamentary deputies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67159	Replication by Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67160	Thank you very much for warning us of the inability of Article 57, so he entered the parliamentary procedure in the beginning of the 12th. We didn't discuss it within those legal deadlines, the amendment to the government goes. It will therefore enter into force on the eighth day following its publication in the National Journal. So I don't see any problems. And on the other hand, as far as we're concerned, we're taking over 243, so 243 labour inspectors, and we're taking over 34 administrative personnel from the State Inspectorate itself. Therefore, the funds they had there have already been transferred to the position of the Ministry of Labour. Therefore, it already says there that you were looking at the budget. They'd see in the budget that these funds exist. After this law comes regulation, structure and everything else. I note that the labour inspectorate is still working and doing what I've backed and the data you just heard in my presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67161	The government's amendment has arrived, so look for it somewhere on your benches. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67162	Dear Minister Mrsic, firstly it should be checked whether inspectors have legitimate labour contracts in view of these structures. So you should control yourself first. You said, you said, and I'm saying, "The labour inspector couldn't tell how many hours worked overtime." And now we're gonna tell you you're supposed to hire another 40 or 50 new labour inspectors that will determine that I can't determine how many overtime hours have been working. Why is that? Labour inspectors don't think they're controlling the business of a powerful man in the economy. Let's try to come and let them try, and we knew, there's at least a hundred media articles on how these inspectors are doing trying in some big trade chain, not to mention not to mention a single one to control how many workers they work there, how many hours they have to work, how many hours they pay, and in which they're related to that job. So long as it is found that something cannot be established here, it means that the rule of law is not working, and that inspectorate doesn't make sense. It would be interesting to know these 30ths or how many applications it was whether they were chebejits, whether they were post-its with one worker, etc., the structure of it, not the quantity. These three hundred who were last year are also interested in who they are, who they punished or who they reported for punishment. Certainly not the powerful ones. How it will work and what chaos it will be when the agencies work and when there will be no more employment and when it will be employed through the agency. I don't think any more labour inspectors should be hired. Maybe you should fire someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67163	The Minister's answer. Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67164	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative has just said the reasons why we felt that it was necessary for the Ministry of Labour and the Labour Inspectorate to be a single body and that the Labour Inspectorate as an administrative unit, only the Ministry of Labour is doing the task that needs to be done and that is the supervision of law enforcement. On the other hand, if you've read the law, inspectors get more powers than they've ever had before. So from being able to act now even before the application came. So that they can act in a way that reconnaissances work before, that certain material evidence can be excluded in the first row we say we can also say video surveillance or some other material. And on the other hand, the way I'm inspecting the work is predicted in a different way, we're forming internal control within the labour inspectorate itself. It'll work on a territorial principle. There will also be actions to be done. Therefore, you will be judged on the basis of the report on the work of the Inspectorate next year and you will see how much more effective it will be than it has been until now and no one will be hidden and there will be no exceptions. All those who work illegally and all those who break the law will be sanctioned regardless of size.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67165	And Davor's Mlakar, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67166	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Prime Minister Mrsic's opening statement moved me to this replica for several reasons. No matter what is said in this particular case about the Labour Inspectorate, this is what I would say first of all, the question to which the Ministry of Administration is responsible. This issue speaks of the system of state administration and of institutions forming, abolishing or otherwise organising. I'm surprised that the government has decided that the holder of this law should be the Ministry of Labour, not the Ministry of Administration, but that, of course, is the government's allowed activity. I am also surprised that you did not get or know how you could get a positive opinion from the Ministry of Administration and the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so given the time in this replica, I will ask you only two questions. Did they tell you that this law that you are offering today is the result of one bad law on the abolition of the State Inspectorate against the applicable laws of the Republic of Croatia and two – the Law on the System of State Administration and the Law you will later answer, or by noding your head, you and I will try to discuss it. And let me know something about that, so before you're so easy to answer, at least think about it. This law is contrary to the Law on the System of State Administration and the General Administrative Procedure Act. Since you have all the time in this world to answer but not me, I will try in my individual debate to show you which articles are contrary to the applicable laws in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67167	Replication response, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67168	So, when we talk about the work of individual ministries, the Ministry of Labour has brought about changes to the Law on the Part-Corruption of State Government where it is true and stated where the Ministry is being set up by the Labour Inspectorate. Therefore, the Labour Inspectorate is established within the Ministry of Labour as an administrative unit. Therefore, it is we who bear the law. Therefore, very clearly and as far as you are concerned, I am therefore concerned that as far as your remarks are concerned, you may say the remarks you think but we believe that this part is the part that is important to effectively form all the inspectorate of work in the Republic of Croatia and to start doing what needs to be done and what has not been done for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67169	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67170	I unfortunately only have to answer you this way. You didn't understand at all what I told you, and you're answering for something that I didn't say at all, so I'm asking you to instruct the speaker to stick to the topic that's being discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67171	And since you didn't have any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, then we'll stop at that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67172	He didn't stick to the subject we're discussing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67173	He's a colleague of the Mlakars.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67174	I'm sorry, we're not talking about the same subject, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67175	Well, we don't talk at all about the subject we're discussing at all, so nobody says he hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67176	But I say because that's what it says.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67177	Well, I'm telling you there was no damage to the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Đuro Popioč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67178	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, we know and see that the establishment of the Labour Inspectorate within the Ministry of Labour and Pension System is actually the consequence of the abolition of the State Inspectorate and we have already had discussions on the immigration of other services that have worked under the State Inspectorate to other ministries, so this is also a logical consequence. So, technically. But we have heard here and in the introduction of several attempts of argument that tended to say the real reasons that we can hardly understand and I hold that they are not at all justified in the very proposal of the law or in the opening speech of the Minister himself. So we don't know what the real reasons are, at least as far as others and this part of the former State Inspectorate are concerned, because we haven't seen any analysis of any or any existing state of functioning of the structure, the detour, the ways of any problems, any problems with the number of perpetrators, the costs of an analysis of any kind but here is one in a series of political decisions, creating the impression that something is done. It's about form, it's about content more or less nothing. There were talks, therefore, that certain weaknesses were observed. I understood one single weakness and the remark that the State Inspectorate did not have the opportunity to participate in the regulatory part of the draft rules, the rules of law which I in personal practice can confirm that it is not true. So some of these here present but also other colleagues and colleagues from that area have always participated in the preparation of regulation, and I assume they have done so from the experience they have had in their work. Maybe it hasn't been the case in the last two years. We don't know, of course, why now the new structure of this inspectorate would be more efficient, better or not know what might be because of some powers and changes that have been introduced here and here, but it could also be done by amending the State Inspectorate Act, so it would be the same. So, if there were problems of ineffectiveness or I don't know any of them then it can be determined either because of leadership or because of the profession or because of the people who did it there, but we see now that the entire composition of the State Inspectorate that deals with these affairs is moving on to the same jobs in the ministry and that these same people will continue to do the same. Don't we think or can we even assume that everything is going to be different now because he's going to be a direct boss, one of the bosses of course to these people, and that something more important is going to change? The minister probably has too much time, so he'll be doing some of these people's work on the ground. Or is it actually the intention of carrying out additional politicization and this professional part of the state apparatus? Which certainly shouldn't be the direction we're supposed to go. For the first time, it also happens that the ministry of this type will have some sort of organisational unit on the ground. So, in addition to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Police and here we get another ministry that will have some kind of semi-repressive apparatus in place of this ministry dealing essentially, that is to regulate quality relations on the labour market if it already exists, and we don't know what its contribution is to 60, 70,000 people more in the labour market. So, but in 2 years, it happened, of course, not to change the work and content of the State Inspectorate, but here we remembered that we would end it and do one and the same, but in other form, that we would have a large ministry with no idea how many organisational parts, and basically nothing special would happen. The minister tried to talk about the prevention, more than boredom. I do not know where this is embedded in the bill itself, but rather in the proposal of the Law, it states that Article 29. that the inspector of the work during the exercise of inspection supervision may, on his request, give advice on how to most effectively apply certain provisions of the regulations, etc. So it can or doesn't have to. So it's about the complete flow of a well-organized functioning state apparatus that, of course, along with this control mechanism, has often been at hand to medium and small entrepreneurs, especially to the middle and the small, to do the instructional and not just repressive role. But here we see that here we are now talking about that possibly an inspector of good faith if he likes the employer or not, I don't know from what other criteria he can give and here's such a suggestion and help for entrepreneurs. The one you mention to the international organisation of work, therefore, states that the task of the inspectorate is, among other things, to provide technical information, advice to employers and workers on the most effective ways to comply with legal provisions. I don't understand why it was given, you didn't mention it, but here you'll probably explain it to the inspectors that they can directly charge certain fines on the spot. It's like a traffic violation, which punishment, what kind of punishment, are we aware of what kind of opportunity or trouble we're going to put ourselves inspectors, not to talk about the entrepreneurs themselves? By which rules, by which criteria, is this a subjective decision, whether these are the rules developed, whether they will carry a purse with money and exchange if that is the case. What techniques and mechanisms are designed to do so and why so at all. I'm sorry, some kind of inspection report isn't a traffic violation where the camera shoots and you see that you've driven as much and as much as you can but to make a phone call. It may also be the wrong decision or assessment of the inspector himself who works in the field of some insight. At least it should have given the possibility that here, as of course it has been so far, that something further is being determined in some subsequent procedure or that at least the one who is supposed to have done something wrong has the opportunity to eventually dispute it. But as for the dispute, so the Institute of Appeal, Mr. Mlakar spoke of it, and that's what he meant, so you returned everything that's happened in the past years when we've been doing harmonisation of the legislation that you're returning the second degree to the same institution that determines the violation. The appeal is brought here, though, to some commission, but in the same institution, 127 laws were changed because it had to be changed. That it cannot be at the same level, at the same institution, within the same governance mechanism. Although he mentioned Kadiya to you earlier today, Kadiya is judging you. Well, we changed those 127 laws to change exactly that. That's what people who sit next to you know very well what it's all about. I would like to point out something else that is going on from Article 40 below, which is that the proposed legal provisions allow for certain infringements of the rules to be carried out, that the procedures are to be opened, the proposals are to be opened, and that there are deadlines, as many as seven, 15 days as they are written in those articles, and then, at the end of each of these articles, it says that unless those actions are submitted, so the defendants and all those which appear to be in those proceedings do not exclude the obligation to submit. So, to try to interpret it, maybe you'll correct me or the lawyers, I'm not. Therefore, the inspector may not write a solution, he may not write the indictment proposal within a period of time but that does not mean that he missed the deadline, that after two years, two months or any time he remembers, he may do so and make the indictment proposal to a criminal or criminal court after two years because here he writes, in each of these paragraphs 42, it states that there is a deadline but if the inspector does not do so does not exclude the obligation to submit. Somebody explain to me what that means. Do I interpret that correctly, that at any moment after the deadline, the inspector may remember and do so. I know examples like that, if it was before in law, it doesn't mean they should have repeated it. It simply amnests this administrator who does so out of any responsibility that in real, fair and if those subject to inspection, if those who are subject and accused have certain deadlines for appeals, for that and this. And the one who's gonna do this to him has a deadline, but if he doesn't respect him, he's got nothing. He can do it in two years. This is a complete violation of legal certainty, and I argue that this is still a violation at the end of the end and security and freedom of entrepreneurship and a violation of the additional entrepreneurial climate. You were talking about that and here's the inspection going on and you're still giving instructions to the force of numbers that confirm that at the time you abolished it, you didn't pass the new law, on what basis did they do it? On what basis did they bring solutions, on what basis? If you gave them the authority to give it to them, on the basis of which laws and regulations. What will happen to those solutions if it really is during that period when they lost their powers as state inspectors did not get as new labour inspectors. I don't know if anything like that, you didn't explain the mechanism, you were just saying how many of those inspections they did, but in what space in which legal regulations. We don't know that. Here's the structure itself we see that it opens several levels and several new levels of governance. He's an interesting director of a new inspectorate who will also be chief inspector and will also be assistant minister who is a state official, so you wrote that, so a clean institution that should be professional, professional and depolitic, whatever that sounds like now. If it wasn't supposed to be, and you put the principal directly as a political figure here because you wrote it, which is the assistant minister and whose term of office you're giving five years. And you said that ministerial assistants come and go, they're political functions. What government mandate lasts five years? How? So, at the same time in many other state bodies it's completely different you don't have a complete breach of that consistency to know what the directors are, to know what the assistants are, to know who's what. Every minister each body writes its own rules and there is Mr. Mlakar absolutely right that you are in violation of a bunch of these laws that governed the structure of the state administration. This is a criticism, of course, but of course one suggestion is to make sure that when these things are written they are consistent, that they are consistent with other ministries. If something came up like this without the Department's opinion it's scandalous because they're competent to control ultimately how other bodies regulate their relationships. And if it is of course to have so much strength and will to correct what is obvious is neither correct nor correct that it ultimately has elements of certain illegalities or contradictions with some other laws and when it must already be so that you keep the law enforceable. Of course, we can't support laws like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67179	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67180	Thank you very much. You can imagine what a second-degree procedure will look like to be led by a commission made up of people who are colleagues from those who do business. Another thing anyone really thinks the commission can handle a few thousand cases a year or someone thinks there'll be only a few dozen or several hundred lawsuits on the inspector's inspection. Well, the logical thing is that at the second degree, people who are...who have the most experience and who are best able to work because all those who have ever participated in a business that is repressive so I say the authorities of the state administration know that sometimes, unfortunately, certain processes happen and because of the personal ego, the one who controls who can't accept it. The other thing is, nothing is ever prescribed by law. So there's something on the verge of what the inspector claims should do and what he claims to be who... And now it's illogical that the commission is not only in this, but in several laws that the commission will be the one that solves at the second degree of appeal of all those. It's not a fair procedure. The other thing is to establish a second-degree service at the Ministry so let's have so many people, these people will certainly have work to do. Whether it takes 2, 3, 5 or not, I don't know how many, but I'm sure these people must first of all be extremely professional with great life, work and professional experience because in the end we've seen everything here just haven't seen what conditions they have to meet regarding work experience and professional experience and the number of years of internships by the leaders of the inspectorate and the people who will be headed by the commission and their deputies. Because practically no condition has been laid down in this law and I can't figure it out. But I repeat, that second degree we're going to have several thousand items a year, at least 30 items of what the labour inspectors are going to determine, 30% will be at your second degree. So if you don't define it by law, you'll have joy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67181	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party club Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67182	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers, colleagues and colleagues, MPs. This law is the consequence of what was happening at the end of the 11th month or more specifically on the 26th of the evenings there somewhere near 23.00 p.m. when there was a debate on the formation and division of the ministry and the central authorities of the state administration and the consequences of 29.11. Now, during this period, we did not find it appropriate to pass certain laws that certain new inspectorates start operating at 1.1, which is clear and due to what some have pointed to the problem. In the law itself, the date for him to enter into force in 1.1 and for the Government to correct that part of the date with its amendment, the entry into force of this law has long passed and the law will enter into force 8 days of publication in the National Journal. Now the minister has delivered a nice lecture here today, the minors got the impression when the inspector, the labour inspectorate enters the Ministry of Labour and the pension system that all the problems of Croatian workers will be solved. Article 3 of this Law prescribes all the tasks that have been done so far and have been in the jurisdiction of the inspectors working at the State Inspectorate. Nothing new within that law when it comes to the jurisdiction of the Inspectorate and the affairs to be done. The responsibility is for what you said yourself to the Ministers that they will be able to paint, so they will be photographers, that they will eventually be able to take some documentation to prove that I think even to the state inspectorates so far should not have been the obstacle to them doing so. When we talk about effective protection, today you look back on working on a black and gray economy. I have to take one for example, for example, we have castellanic greenhouses where workers haven't received their salary for nine months. The jurisdiction of inspectors, not receiving salaries, if the employer gives them a bill of wages, that's the rate. Now the question is, someone's nine months working doesn't get paid, for those nine months there's no tax or contribution, whether it's also some kind of gray economy or working on black. At least within that it was necessary to try and find certain legal solutions so that these things could be sanctioned, this is how it's left to individuals to press charges, to run court disputes for unpaid salaries. And so the inspectors will continue to work as they have done so far and the question, you yourself indicated that regarding the report there was an intervention in 2012 of about 25 thousand controls of which 15.5 thousand from the field of work and about 9.5 thousand from protection at work. And now that we're saying that the number of inspectors is here somewhere in Article 6 that on four to five thousand workers should be one inspector and in the working legislation we change the Labour Act, we introduce a greater possibility of flexibility of working time, the possibility that workers work in the redistribution longer, in the second period will work less. And we want and we think the inspectors will be effective. And even today, we have a situation like we will and we will have when such a law changes if the will of most workers here decides to have double records of working time, that we have frightened workers who are not willing and who do not have simple strength and live in fear of reporting such work. I'm asking myself whether the current 200 inspectors that have passed with you under this law will be able to effectively monitor such work. Are they going to be able to, you are here to look at the supervision of the agency for temporary employment you open up and a new regulation that allows these workers to work longer, whether these inspectors will be more effective in monitoring this law than your words that you have said here can not be supported as a particular argument of better work and an inspector's work. And something already indicated here and now if this law enters into force 8 days of publication in the National Journal of 31.12., the State Inspectorate has stopped working alone here in the introduction and indicated that still the inspectors have continued to do their part of the job. So I'm interested today, so answer us here what work contracts and the name of the labor contract were held by state inspectors when they were doing their part of the surveillance. Did they have illegal labor contracts if they did, the State Inspectorate stopped working with 31.12.? It shows that an institution that is in a position to take care of the protection of workers and control itself is being brought into one situation that it is also acting unlawfully. On the other hand, we know that in stores, everyone knows it, for at least half an hour, somewhere and an hour workers need to get to work sooner than official hours. Half an hour or an hour later, they have to get out of that store. Nowhere has it been recorded to them either as a redistribution of working hours or as overtime work. These store workers have to keep their mouths shut and work because if they don't, then they're told they're gonna get fired. Will these inspectors who have worked and supervised them do something better in the system of trade? We also happen to have this in the textile industry and I'm still not counting. What has already been pointed out today to predecessors, which is a second-degree body, which is that the complaint is submitted to a three-member committee appointed by the minister from the ranks of officials. And now the question arises if it is the same second-degree body in a particular ministry as how objective it will be to act on the basis of certain complaints and complaints which will take place within those solutions that the inspectors will write. And something I'm particularly interested in, I couldn't find enough connection here. You say that the commission consists of three members and three deputies who, on a proposal from the Director and the Service, are appointed by the Minister, and then it is said that the variable members, i.e. deputies, when speaking about the Board of Appeal, do not have to have a certain qualification as those you appoint, so I am now interested in what are the variable members of the commission. I believe I'll get an answer based on that. I failed to get by on the law and find out who the variable members are, if you say you appoint a president, a deputy and a certain member. These are the reasons for the full uncertainty of this law, the speed of law-making and the Croatian Labourists will not support such a law, regardless of what we consider necessary and that supervision of the violation of labour rules must be highly quality and effective, but this law does not guarantee anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67183	On behalf of SDP representative Lidija Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67184	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, there's been a lot of talk last week about the reasons for the suspension of the State Inspectorate, the distribution of inspectors by the ministries, the parallel system of this surveillance, and it wouldn't be longer on the subject already spoken. The labour and labour protection inspection was one of six inspections under the State Inspectorate, and its integration into the Ministry of Labour and Pensions has been brought into line with the practice of the other countries of the European Union. Labour inspections are part of the competent ministry in almost all European Union members, as the minister has already mentioned, so only Poland is not part of the ministry. The proposed way of designing and action of labour inspections should contribute to a more efficient and professional operation of the inspection, as well as to a faster and easier achievement of the role of labour inspection under the International Labour Organisation Convention. The adoption of the law will create a legal framework for the operation of the Labour Inspectorate as an independent administrative organisation. The Ministry of Labour and Pension System has taken over 243 inspectors, which has already been asked the question, but 233 of them have been involved in the work of inspectors on the ground, and 10 of them have been deployed to other jobs, and now they will work as inspectors and 34 people from the administration. They all continued to carry out inspections in the field of work and protection at the same locations they were at by the end of last year. This legislative proposal provides for a slightly greater authority for inspectors to remove illegality, advisory and preventive action aimed at combating minor illegalities and, on the other hand, more effective punishment for committing serious illegalities with serious and harmful consequences. According to the German model, punishment at the scene of the offence will be allowed, thus increasing efficiency as only part of the sentence will go to criminal proceedings, thus planning and discharging already overcrowded courts. The number of labour inspectors will be determined depending on the number of workers in the activities they oversee and in the field of non-supervisory supervision, usually being one inspector for 4-5 thousand workers. So far, reports on the work of the State Inspectorate show that up until now, an inspector has been covering about 5.5 thousand workers on average. In the current legal framework, there were little possibilities for preventive action, and this law provides for a combination of advisory and preventive actions of labour inspectors, which is increasingly represented both in Europe and in the world. The organisation and management of the labour inspectors, the conditions for carrying out inspection tasks over the implementation of regulations, duties and powers of the labour inspector for the purpose of protection of public interest and the regulation of criminal liability shall be regulated. Jobs from the Department of Labour Inspectorate. In addition to the central office in Zagreb, it will be established as district offices in Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Varazdin and Zagreb and will also own the premises of the district offices. Due to the specificity of the inspection business, flexibility in terms of mobility and schedules of working hours is prescribed. Conditions shall be laid down for the selection of directors and the specifications and description of posts, specifying the minimum conditions for each of them. The conduct, powers and responsibilities of the inspector shall be determined and the infringement provisions already mentioned, which shall, of course, include fines for legal and natural persons, shall be prescribed. The regulations and instructions provided for by this law are for the minister to adopt within 3 months. Until the entry into force of the new Regulation, inspectors will use existing cards and badges, and a special regulation will be adopted for the detailed internal structure of the inspectorate. The setting up of inspectorates under the ministries that I stress practice and in almost all European countries will allow the specialisation of inspectors and the reduction of the surplus administration and we at the SDP club believe that this way the work of inspection bodies will be more visible through increased budget revenues on behalf of taxes and contributions, and less through payment of penalties. Therefore, the SDP club will support the draft of this law by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67185	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67186	Dear Madam Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We will not be against the adoption of this law because we know it is necessary and we know that it is the post of labour inspector at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, because it is a good practice for most EU countries, which does not mean that we are thrilled and that we are failing with this bill. Because I think this law deserved first to be well studied on the Economic Social Council among all partners. Secondly, we think the National Labour Protection Council should have said the same thing about this law. I think it would be good anyway, but we don't think that by passing this law now we've solved everything because before us there are discussions about two important laws on which the work of the Labour Inspector is based. It's the Labour Act and the new Labour Protection Act. I am convinced that by adopting these two new laws, there will be a need to also revise certain provisions of this law. What I, as well as the person who has worked in this sector for many years, was protected by work, but also by one of the initiators, or one of the participants in the negotiations on the Labour Protection Act, what bothers me is that this law fully undermines the role of a very important figure, which is an inspector of protection at work. You'll find him in two, three articles of the law and nothing more about it. It is as important as the labour inspector dealing with legal regulations, studying collective agreements, consulting working councils, procedures for settlement, etc. So, the labour protection inspector is just as important as the one whose detour I have described so roughly, and the important thing is, the job is important different from the labour inspector. So both inspectors are employed by the inspectorate, but one has a specific role as a safety inspector at work. E takes a lot more technical knowledge, much more mastering certain procedures if we want measurements in the workplace, issuing measuring orders. So a lot more experience and a lot of say less blindness to organisational regulations that increase the risk of harmfulness and hazards at work. I'm saying that the labour inspector, the lawyer, can be without a problem. However, it is difficult for a wood industry inspector to be in shipbuilding, a wood industry safety inspector to be in shipbuilding or some activities. The differences in their performance in construction, in engineering, in shipbuilding are important because each activity has a special set of technical regulations on protection at work. The law which is now a valid protection at work has instructed these safety inspectors to actively participate in the assessment of harmfulness and dangers, to work with representatives, with labour protection officers, to work with the employer's protection authorities, which is one complex content. I'm sure if you send in a pair of labour inspectors and a safety inspector to work at the firm that the statistics will be better, because one thing you'll show as an intervention and one as a prevention. But unfortunately, as the Minister said at the hearing of the parent board, we don't have enough inspectors, and especially the safety inspector at work. We're missing 50 figures in the system and we're going to have a very hard time letting the luxury of the labour inspector, the safety inspector at work perform together in companies. Therefore, I would ask, in any case, that either by sublaw or by the novels of this law, these two specific roles are not distinguished, but simply explained. Of course, your answer, Mr. Minister, may be that the Labour Protection Act and regulations provide for the punishment for what kind of failure. I agree with that, and that determines the work of a work protection inspector, but I think that figure is very valuable and very much can affect the savings in the world of work in preventive action to just mention it through two, three articles. Here, and two more details to look back on. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The work inspectorate shall carry out inspection tasks in the field of work and protection at work. Why wouldn't it be a point after this? Because it's completely unnecessary if a special law isn't prescribed otherwise. I think enough is said that the labour inspectorate is carrying out inspections in the field of work and protection at work, and if the special law is not otherwise prescribed. It can only be an exception to the military and the police. And then it can be written except in the military and the police that it's clear to everyone. You will also have to explain this to me in Article 7(2) of the affairs referred to in paragraph 1, so the tasks of the inspector and the inspection work carried out by the Director, the Chief Inspector, the Assistant Director, the Head of the Sectoral Office, the Head of the Service, is said to be regarded as having specific working conditions. What does that mean? In view of our work protection, we have special working conditions for the workplace, I don't know what this is all about. What are the special conditions of work? Please, when you turn around, if you have an answer, you'll explain it to me, and to your distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So, to be clear, I am aware of the circumstances in which this law is passed. I'd like to welcome the Labour Inspectorate to the Department of Labour. Of course I agree that there should be no position of director and assistant in relation to the job, the function, should have complete professional freedom, there should never be those schizophrenic situations that I am, after all, an employee of the minister and that I must tie a horse where the boss says so. But the place, it's also different to edit these relationships. However, I think it is the place of the labour inspectorate at the Ministry of Labour and the pension system. And of course, I conclude, we will support this law with one desire that is serious and immeasurable that indeed the figure of the work protection inspector is shown in a better and more real light than it is shown here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67187	Thank you. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67188	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow representatives. Here's one of the bill's proposals in a set of legislative proposals where the inspectorate has somehow set up and sorted in the state administration. Therefore, it is no longer an independent inspectorate of which the labour inspectors were among them but belongs to this legislative proposal to the Ministry of Labour. The articles in this legislative proposal also show that both the uniform and the card and everything forms the Minister and the Ministry of Labour. So, the inspection service is actually setting up the Ministry of Labour. The second question is, and today we have very often asked this in the morning while the prime minister was here, the new Labour Act, which is clear that he is a direct subject and an inspectorate of work. Now, we're listening to the news, we don't know exactly, quite sure that you know better because you're also proposing a new Labour Act, that this new Labour Act is let's also short-lived ZOR, is how they like to shorten it in the media and in the voices so that it is brought without the consent of the social partners. Without the consent of the unions and the talks with the unions, and as it is said by officials of this government, it is very, very necessary and important, key not to say, for the transformation and finally take-off of Croatia in an economic and economic sense. Without it, the prime minister says, the new Labour Act has no progress on Croatia. Although when we're looking at what it is, it's actually a reduction we have to say a reduction of those rights although these rights are in many segments, mainly in an economic branch like trade we know today that our employees in the sphere of trade are doing far more, longer and less of their rights than in the same commercial chains abroad. I was in Austria on one of the lakes of Austria's, parts of the Austrian sea, as they say, where I wanted to buy a souvenir or anything, a sandwich in a department store that also operates with us, and it's Austrian origin and I left at half past 11:00 on Saturday morning, so Saturday morning, the department store only worked until 10:00. They do business with us until 9 a.m. on Saturday nights, and on Sundays until 15 a.m., I think, if not more. So, what we're about to prescribe and what we need from those labour inspectors when it turns out to be a smoke suer, a cadiya is judging you. So the Ministry, i.e. You and your government, you're bringing in a new Labour Act, so you'll have your own inspection without talking or leaving or talking to the union and the general public, right? So what do we have now? He's an inspector. And what Mr. Hrelja said and what should be especially important and important safety inspectors at work. With them being specific to every economic branch. So in Slavonski Brod, we have a metal industry Đuro Đaković and a series of other smaller drives, so this work protection inspector that I'm going to say specialized and say medical term for exactly that kind of thing as if someone fell some kind of boiling bottle, with a boiling gas of 200 kg on their feet, whether or not he had that shoe prescribed with the metal ones on his fingertips. That's who works in the wood industry or I don't know in the textile industry, he doesn't know that. So, one specific person must really be and I don't think that in this legislative proposal it's fully related to this matter, in relation to this specialization, to these specific features that every work protection inspector should have, depending on the responsibility of the activity of the economic branch in which he is inspecting protection against these specifics, in fact, should be defined more closely in the legislative proposal. Clearly, the military and the police, as I say, are resolutions that are subject to hierarchy and others don't belong to this legislative proposal and are set up differently and for all the other branches of this inspectorate that belonged to the ministry, we used to talk here about those 18 points that we had last week, the opposition expressed disdain for this kind of structure because I say it turns out if it's under the resorient minister and under his authority, acting, it turns out that it might be easy to turn out and who he complains if he turns out to be suing you and the cadiya is suing you. This is why, as for those other legislative proposals that were on the agenda last week, when a minority of 75 MPs here in the Assembly because we've been counting eight completely without the majority needed, so we can fully solidify ourselves with the attitude that was last week of the entire opposition, so the HDSB Club would remain abstentioned under this bill because it is also the government itself, it has been implementing it, since the first of January 2014, without asking me again to say yes and not counting on the opinions of others, so if so some single vote this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67189	Thank you, too. We have a replica, my colleague Đurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67190	Here's a thank you, so actually, even if today's law is being discussed, the amendments to the law are actually one of the things I'd say is a political decision to shut down the State Inspectorate. I mean, like many decisions taken practically overnight without any particular public debate, without any actual preparation of the public, any stakeholders, any of those entities to which this political decision was taken and these amendments, this law as well as the previous laws were actually just about the consequences or byproducts practically and large political decisions. One large political decision to have total inspection controls from all possible portfolios, from a single state-owned body that has been functioning for a number of years suddenly redistributed to the competent ministries. It is my impression and I think that it is the impression that neither the Croatian public nor those to whom the action of these inspections will apply or will be applied are truly not only aware of the consequences but at least the real reasons why and even the political decision so quickly, so quickly and so without any clear arguments being made and so quickly implemented and so quickly the ruling majority has not only not taken advantage but has actually covered up the real reasons why it is even making it, whether they are economic nature, whether they are financial nature, whether it was the ineffectiveness of the State Inspectorate, whether it is intended to achieve greater control of the state authorities which makes us from the position of opposition whether it is above the city of inspection or what the objectives are, reach and the reasons of this whole package.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67191	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67192	Well, I think colleague Djurovic thinks it's actually quite clear. You asked the question behind the hill, you saw that this bill had already come in connection with the other inspectorates last week. Today there is an inspectorate on the work on the agenda and a new Labour Act is being prepared in the background, so the new Labour Act and a clear and very close presence of the ministries themselves if we are a state inspectorate to say we have distributed to these ministries the influence of the Ministry itself will not speak to the Minister himself but let's say, let's say, one of them is also here on the work of the inspectorates. This independence that he had in the state and how big it was but now this new structure is actually losing its independence, in order to just implement this new law and implement, so that the provisions of the new Labour Act, so that they are kept in the mold, under the control of the ministers who have taken into their care of this inspectorate as many as there are, six ministries seem to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67193	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. Davorin's Mlakar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. What we failed in the replicas, I hope we get there at least now. Let us in turn, the urgent procedure for the adoption of this law is explained by the justified reasons, referring to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Justifiable reasons if they were to use what was said throughout a set of laws that for the same reason they had the destiny to find themselves here is the fact that the abolition of the State Inspectorate has created some legal gaps that need to be filled out now. This was used by colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture by justifying an emergency procedure. You have said here that there are reasonable reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure because there has been a change in the scope of the Ministry of Labour and the pension system by the end of the work of the State Inspectorate. And then you suggested that this law enter into force on the 1st of January of this year. Today is the 28th of January law is not yet in force. Now I'm asking you if the reasons for the urgency were such, and 28 days without that law, why couldn't this law have suffered another month of such a vacuum and entered a regular procedure into two readings? This would show that this government does not regard this Parliament as a stand-by station, but that it really wants to hear what MPs have to say about the content and quality of your regulation. But we haven't gotten an answer to that question as many times as we have. I don't think we're gonna get it now. So business is not justified at all that you propose and vote on an urgent procedure. The second thing he said at the inauguration was that the law was passed for the protection of workers. I have been reviewing 57 members of the law and I have found one that might refer to the protection of workers, which is article 3 which tells you about what inspection supervision is doing and how this law is implemented. So everything you said in the opening statement is not true. We're passing this law because we're getting into the system of state administration again, and that was why I asked you about the system of state administration. It would be responsible for the Ministry of Administration, and it is assumed that it has special knowledge and people who deal with this problem, so it would be more logical to propose this law, not you, because it sets up a labour inspection. Unfortunately, you have not accepted this objection either, but as far as the protection of workers, this law has offered nothing but what the State Inspectorate has done in part of the labour inspection until now. Now what makes us think this law is wrong. That's the first question, and I told you this law that you're proposing is contrary to the two laws that are in force. One is the State Administration System Act, and the other is the General Administrative Procedure Act. I will say because I think it is interesting information, before the very accession to the EU, the government had to amend 127 laws that had the provisions of the procedure, in order to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act. And now you, following the harmonisation of most of these laws, are again making a difference and entering something into the inspection procedure of the work of this inspection of your work that is contrary to the General Administrative Procedure Act. Of all the biggest problems and the most significant objection we can make is the fact that the Ministry of Labour will establish an unadministrative unit, but a management organisation in the form of a ministry that will be an inspectorate and that will make solutions in the first degree on which your ministry will decide in the second degree. This is legally inadmissible, it prohibits you from the Law on General Administrative Procedure, which prohibits you from the basic legal principles that the body cannot solve essential rights and questions of citizens in both the first and second stages. And tomorrow, when these procedures appear in front of the ministry, you'll see what kind of problems they'll cause. But you don't want to hear about it. Furthermore, it is contrary to the Law on the State Administration System that there is an administrative organisation in the membership of a ministry which, under the law, could be called administration, office or directorship, is called the Inspectorate. And then to resolve the discomfort of such a provision, you say that the head of this work inspectorate is the head of the directorship. But then this organization of yours must be called the directorship, not the labour inspectorate. Why does it matter? Because inspectors are persons with special powers and responsibilities. So you say, by the way, only by the way in Article 7 yes and "inspectional tasks from the inspectorate section of the work of the person referred to in paragraph 1 of this article may be carried out in official uniforms or civilian clothing". I'm guessing I'm the only one who can't go naked. But if I can do both, then it's unnecessary to write. And that still means she'll have special official uniforms, which means again some expense to make official uniforms for your work inspection, and this whole norm seems unnecessary to me. At the end of the discussion of the General Administration Act in Article 42, you shall state that an inspector finds that a breach of the rules has committed an infringement which, under the law of violation, is required to issue a mandatory criminal order without delay and no later than 8 days from the date of completion of the supervision with the facts determined to take action on the perpetrator of the offence, will issue such a order. But if that order is not issued within that time limit, the obligation to issue it shall not be excluded." Please explain to us what that means. The inspector who found himself in a specific case of a supervised facility or whatever you want and the persons who break the law is required under the law on the system of the state administration and writes to you, perhaps your colleagues can refer to it there is a special chapter on inspection work that writes what the inspector is obliged to do. And he's obliged to issue a criminal order within a certain period of time even a criminal record and you're now saying if he doesn't issue that obligation stands. What time, in six months, in two years? At the same time, the person subject to inspection must respect the documents issuing inspections. What kind of volunteerism is it that if the inspector does not issue an order, that obligation will not cease and when he will carry out that obligation, it is likely that no one is alive. So let me get this straight. The administrative organisation of the ministry may have one of three forms. It can be called Directorate, Administration or Office, it cannot be called Inspectorate and even less that inspectorate that you founded as an internal establishment unit may have its own regional units in, on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I said that this law is not that contrary to the state administration system it completely destroys that system because outside the ministry that you find an internal organisational unit that will have its own regional units that I still have to admit has not been recorded in our long-term practice and neither in theory nor such a thing is possible. Given these lacks of law and the opposite of these two fundamental laws that I was talking about, we suggest you withdraw this law from the procedure and try to overwork it in two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67195	Thank you, too. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67196	Mr. Mlakar, I have to correct you because if labour inspectors, for example, work on nudist beaches, maybe I can be naked because the nudes don't take dressed people. So that's the tone you were talking about. You said one sentence that, I don't know whether you quoted or quoted the prime minister, this law is passed to protect the workers. The workers we contact and there are those workers the laborers are contacting thank you for your protection. And they say, please don't protect us anymore, maybe we'll get better. As so far, labour inspectors have protected work and workers are seen by how the working class is in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67197	Young man's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67198	A colleague, Vuksic, this story of the official uniform was just an illustration of the quality of this law. I can only imagine how he'll still be carrying official documents in this case of yours. However, I was talking here because of that serious part of the story, we didn't get and we talked before about any analytical information about what the State Inspectorate was doing so far where the labour inspection was, according to Minister Mrsic, she should never have been there, something like that he said. And I think he made a mistake here because this State Inspectorate, because of the simplification of the procedure, contained that I so rudely say economic inspections that were working together even with the police department if you didn't know and acted precisely so that today not one of the major chains would have entered the labour inspection and shut down those premises she doesn't examine whether you have enough cubicity per employee etc. Then tomorrow the market will come and then the day after tomorrow, so there was a state inspectorate. According to my knowledge, the State Inspectorate has paid more fines every year than the cost of business or the cost of wages and drive, the material costs of the entire State Inspectorate. It might be appropriate for the government to ask for that information and see if it was really appropriate to stop the State Inspectorate in this way, given that this is the consequence of how the Government says the transformations of the State Inspectorate. And I was quoting in the protection of the Minister's worker because that's what he said in his introduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67199	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67200	Thank you very much. My colleague Mlakar would not, like Vuksic, notice such a detail about the beach, but we can, we have the doctor's overtime, there may be enthusiasm in the operating halls that people work free in their operating halls, so inspectors will have to dress in, for the operating room in the green with a mask etc.. But well, how it came to come, mainly, the rationalisation of the state administration's structure as you yourself said it was through 127 laws that we passed when we joined the European Union's legislation. In fact, this turns out to be some kind of law later than that of Perkovich three days before he entered, but just not in that sense, but in this sense, the reconstruction of the state administration, the state administration. So we have already adopted everything and adapted it to the European Union, and now that we have entered the 6-7 months, we are going to change ourselves again. So, I don't know what it all looks like, but here we are, saying we're not going to be on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67201	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67202	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, that's what we were talking about. This government instead of retaining or creating some logical system, it is actually growing that state administration system and doing something and claiming to respect the laws of this country, doing something that is contrary to the laws that are in force. So, you can't, within one ministry, create a formation unit less important than the entire ministry institution, and allow this law for the first time in our history that such an organization has its own regional units and their facilities throughout the country. It's against absolutely all government standards. If they thought it might be a reflection of the foundation of the Ministry of Finance, then they failed to see the development of one and the other ministries because sometimes so-called. The state departments did not have a detour to local self-government units, but they exercised executive power from the central if you want states to the last unit of local self-government, so they also had an organization set up. This ministry, led by Mrsic, has never had that position, and it is completely unsettled that now a unit of formation has its own regional units, and let's just say the ministry doesn't have to have them. I just expect that tomorrow, given these ingenious ideas, someone comes to decide that his ministry forms such an accounting sector at the level of the administration as a unit of structure and then sets up district units all over the country. Then it would probably be caricature enough to finally distract someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67203	Drazen Pandek, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67204	Thank you. My dear colleague, I would not very much agree that this is a specific feature of this solution, this Labour Inspectorate Act, to carry out administrative proceedings within one body, then to enable complaints of a particular solution within the same body. I think that, for example. There are also units of regional self-government in employment where the head of the body decides on a decision to accept the service, and I believe more examples would be found. I think there's a court order in any case, so I don't think any basic legal principle of this kind of solution has been hurt there. And as for perhaps the unorthodox formation of this labour inspectorate in relation to the other forms of structure that we find at the Ministry of Administration, I think that most speakers today agreed that the work of the State Inspectorate in this area was not satisfactory and apparently some changes and improvements should have followed. My opinion before the proposal of this law was that all these inspections should be tied up, so this inspectorate of work with that ministry whose core of action is the area that this inspectorate regulates because there are people who should be and are most interested in doing things right in this area, so that this control is effective, they know matter, and I believe that this step is in the right direction, and the later practice will show that things are going to develop, and possibly further improvements will be able to be proposed and adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67205	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67206	Comrade Pandek, I thank you for this replica. You're saying they have a feeling that the State Inspectorate didn't do very well or that it didn't achieve its purpose. The problem is that we do everything on the basis of our feelings, once yours, twice mine, and for the third time maybe some groups of people are a little wider, but never on the basis of exact data. The fact that you have the feeling that the state inspector was doing good or bad, it's your personal matter, but you don't have the information to tell me how much in the last 10 years the State Inspectorate has charged the fines, how much inspection he's done, how much of these supervisions he's brought in or filed in violation or criminal charges. We haven't heard of it, but not one word. That's the first part of the story. And secondly, your comparison with employment and the General Administrative Procedure Act that makes it impossible for the same body to make decisions in the first and second stages is not the happiest solution, you know. Even the process of receiving the service does not have to be an administrative procedure, but these are now details that would bother everyone else. The law here is explicit, as you cannot afford to be ruled by the Municipal Court in both the first and second degree but will be decided by the County Court on the judgment of the municipal court. Thus, you cannot make a solution within one ministry and then decide to appeal to those solutions. The minimum that we should respect, and I am telling you that there will also be problems with the European Union because of these regulations, is at least to establish a special commission at the government level to address complaints in such cases. This solution you imagined was illegal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67207	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67208	Thank you very much. A fellow Mlakar, so you said someone said the State Inspectorate didn't meet the requirements, but I would turn the story to the other side. Today, the Prime Minister, and everyone's talking about these times when we have a record high deficit that needs to be rationalized more quality, better, more meaningful, more operational, and that they haven't already called the state administration. And then you have an example of the tax administration cutting the district offices, cutting them out, doing it in customs, doing it in the MUP, but one inspectorate who, frankly speaking and listening to colleagues from the ruling coalition, obviously wasn't there at all, didn't really bother to see why the State Inspectorate was founded as such and what was wanted to achieve with these inspections and why exactly those inspections all in one place. No, there's another story going on here. The State Inspectorate is cutting into several private services in the ministries. However, there's a very interesting one I'd say sharing cakes. Because this Kukuriku coalition rules according to the system that each party got its share of the cake and the State Inspectorate was a thorn in the eye that was disturbing. Because the state inspectorate could only name one director and he had to be from one party and now it's a matter of whether it is. And how can the Minister of Economy now allow himself to be led there by the State Inspectorate to be someone from the SDP and tear down his concept. Or vice versa. How the Minister of Labour can allow the inspectorate to be some kind of HNS man, and now he can't rule him. So this system is something that brings us back 30 years and it's not good. And as for the results of his colleague, Mlakar, a year before he was abolished, the Financial Police had the result of a billion-and-a-half fixed liabilities and most of it was charged. But that wasn't enough either, but the Financial Police were abolished, and then simply one system collapsed and a new one had to be built, so the Financial Police were reintroduced. But now it's gone again, but now there's some sort of system inside going back to work that should be a pandan of it. Unfortunately, so will the State Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67209	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67210	Comrade Shuker, you've actually opened up the most important topic now and it might come to the question of who is not responding to the independent control of a body that we at least believe can withstand certain political pressures. And when it was founded 15 years ago, the State Inspectorate was also for and against ideas, and today there is a tendency that either all inspections will be divided into ministries which can be defended, because each minister is responsible for his portfolio and the field of his work, and therefore he must have instruments to act until all inspections are placed in one body. There are also these transitional forms quite often what they have discussed about European experiences is not entirely true, which is that some inspections, I say, are formed within one institution economically, and that others are very specific as they were in the end line Financial Police, such as the Administrative Inspectorate continue to be within individual ministries. But no matter how this issue was resolved, it was never resolved in this way to be a formation unit in the ministry, that it had its own regional units because it was illegal. It's even illogical if you want me not to talk about how opposed it is to building a normal modern system of state administration. The question remains to whom the State Inspectorate and the control will not answer so much that the one in the stained vessels will be threatened to remove the inspection after he has already destroyed the State Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67211	Thank you. We continue the debate, Boris Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67212	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen. I admit that for this debate, this individual debate appeared after the presentation of Mr. Representative Tušak. True, he spoke for his club. But here is similar to many today who participated before me in the debate highlighted and presented numerous examples of labour rights violations not only imply dissatisfaction with the work of an inspector, I am talking about it primarily, and in this way practically also the State Inspectorate. But whatever that means, it's a clear and loud problem here about the world of work regardless, here's when it comes to change, when it comes to a new law that regulates exactly that area, then a skeptic. I also understand that in a country of high mistrust, as unfortunately our country is, and that is with coverage, let us remember the recent past, and this collective not only collective memory is very fresh and very strong, so I can explain it, or understand it, not to understand it. But regardless of when this government and then this ministry, that is to say, proposes a measure of continuity and not only the fixed measures and proposals of the form, but here we simply have a certain newspaper in the text of the proposed law, but I am going to say something at the end, with the fact that we are witnessing that the practice we are now introducing, that is, about the practice of Europe, perhaps with the exception of Poland as well as Mr Minister. But here's what's not enough reason to accept this kind of change. I just think it's a good thing that the labour inspectorate is going to be at the Ministry of Labour as an independent administrative organisation, no matter what Mr. Mlakar said about the procedure and in accordance with the other laws. I just think it's a good thing, because as our prime minister said today when he was telling the truth about some other government measures, including the fight against unemployment. So does this government, does this ministry care that we have an unsettled country, that we have unemployed, that we have exactly what we're saying and that I say so from the Social Democratic Party club, that we have an unsettled, unsettled area of protection of workers and workers. Who better to take care of that than exactly that and that kind of ministry. That's why I, with full confidence and of course, will vote in favour of this law, but with full confidence after this year's proven mistrust, because if you ask anyone who's pleased with you and the workers and trade unions, no matter what you've done and any other information please don't protect us with that jump again, but who's satisfied with the Labour Inspectorate? Who is satisfied with some other rights of employment, etc.? And you with this bill of law with greater powers, which is prescribed to me in Article 1 of Article 33 of the Law, means with the greater powers of the inspector, using new modern technologies, I draw particular attention and fight against black labour. And I think that's what unions need to talk about. Let's not forget that the labour inspector and the work protection goes there, especially in that real world of work where there's no union or union organization most often. I keep this very important, of course, that possibility existed before in the provisions of the old law, but I repeat again and draw attention to the new structure now and by the nature of things the Ministry of Labour is very interested in. With the prevention that is highlighted here, it seems particularly significant to me, and therefore this number of inspectors who have now moved to the ministry with this integration with labour protection inspectors consider it a quality higher. Well, then I think that's how they'll be able to do better on the ground, and I repeat especially where we don't have one, where there's a special flowering work on black. Who doesn't know about the examples of black work? So please nice until yesterday are workers who worked on black and employers to say so worked for local self-government units. So we have people sitting in representative bodies today, even the presidents of these councils, working on black. We know of such examples, don't we? Every one of you in your midst. But here's when certain changes need to come, when this government, when this ministry says loud and clear that it's going to fight it, then we're begging nicely with a residential fig in its pocket. That's why I just answered my word to stress it and that we have to run these things. If in this House, this House has no confidence in how our fellow citizens, our workers, our citizens, are reading and voting here. I won't say without covering the procedure, I don't know what the whole thing is. And they end up locking up there maybe now somewhere and at the bar, please nice and that's the place of social events, in a client or in a home in front of a television set, and do they even want to change? To make changes in the world of work? That's why I'm critical of you who have one such resistance because as soon as certain changes are mentioned, you're like a cartoon with all four against it. So let's get into it, let's do it, but let's have a little bit more consensus here and get as clear and loud as we can to say it like that. And especially she needs it here in the field of the world of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67213	Thank you, too. We're starting with replicas, Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67214	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague Kovacic, I agree with you and I, in my discussion, said that I was unhappy with the work of the State Inspectorate so far because he did not do his part of the work in accordance with the law what he prescribed. When we talk about change, then let's be so correct and then let's say what the changes are in this law. Take Article 3 of the Law which prescribes what work inspectors will do in the field of work and protection on the work and powers that result in comparison with the work they have done at the State Inspectorate. It is identically all prescribed from the State Inspectorate to this law. Now I'm asking myself, if the same thing is prescribed in the law that's changing it? What is the guarantee of a more efficient, better, better quality work of a labour inspector? No, we're just a group of people from 220 or 230 labour inspectors now moved to another place, and we gave the same legal framework powers and jobs that they need to do and talk about some kind of change. No, these are not changes, changes are something deeper, something to talk about, something that should have been involved and social partners, should have been prepared, and if there were to be arguments that something was wrong in the State Inspectorate to say all that is wrong, to abolish the State Inspectorate and thus clearly in this same debate and to bring a certain different structure but with some other competences, with some other provisions of the law that would create better and better quality work of these inspectors. I don't really see any change in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67215	Thank you. Answer, fellow Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67216	You mentioned Mr. Tušak that there was almost no change in this law because Article 3 as you quoted it were practically prescribed provisions of the old law. So I don't see anything bad and controversial about it, what it takes to get into this text of the law to be copied from so far literature, or from the law so far. But I also draw attention, I have already here, and quoted exactly Article 33, where these changes are seen and where certain powers are seen, among other things, please not the only one, but here is Article 33, especially paragraph 1, where new powers of the labour inspector are just seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67217	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67218	My colleague, you have repeatedly been in the debate and are now responding to the replica about exactly the expected improvement in labour inspection and that the labour inspectorate is being found by the Ministry of Labour itself. So there's something more logical than that. Of course it was different and it was different better, different preparedness that could have been done through the inspectorate, but we see whatever segment, whatever we touch the segment was not satisfied and always the inspectorate's answer was, we don't have a lot of inspectors. So if you're complaining that it's a bad product, he says he has to go out on the ground on some other stuff. This is just saying, and this whole set of laws is talking about seriousness, and that is what you're warning the ministry and the entire government itself to look at the moment where the worker and the worker are present today and to respond to the current moment with concrete works and not with one abstraction. There's been a lot of rights before and no one cared here anymore, we didn't talk about those violations of law. So we know that the workers in the 21st century slave chain are slaves, but I guess it's important that something was written in a certain paper law and that no one cared about it. We now have a responsible person, so far the whole process of how the minister is going ultimately, regardless of what is not directly evolved in it, he is responsible for how this process of work takes place, or who violates workers' rights and all that is related to the process of work. And I'll tell you one more thing, how there's been a crime of default. Well, that looks like some kind of nonsensical at first glance, so we've had a work-related violation before, but if the inspector were to come to the employer why you didn't, why you wronged him right, he said no, I didn't harm his right, I just watch I don't have the money now to pay and buy some properties etc. So we were just the creators, the beginners of this crime to respond to this moment and reality in which we found ourselves, or employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67219	Thank you. Here's your answer, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67220	Well, here's a thank you, fellow you, of course, gave me creams and kind of reminded me of what I forgot. Of course I agree with what you said and what I forgot to say in the debate, so right now this kind of structure through the Ministry of Labour, it's the responsible part of the questions asked by some MPs how by now I know about the case and it's true that somewhere the work inspections didn't go either the labour inspectors or they weren't effective, so here's the chance that right here in this place tomorrow, please nicely ask such questions, we now have full legitimacy and we have to ask the question and so who exactly ask the question. So far it could have been here in one way or another, it could have been vaguely answered. Here's a chance to ask questions loud and clear tomorrow from the opposition and we from the opposition, because there we are all equally interested in an orderly world of work and ask nicely to get clear and not ambiguous answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67221	Thank you. Boro Grubisic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67222	Dear counterpart Kovačić, you have been expressing really rare optimism from the ranks of your Kukuriku coalition, so I haven't heard such an optimistic debate in a long, long time. I haven't actually heard any debate on this side except here's yours. But let's start with the inspectorate of work in the past tenses. I, as a doctor, have filled out very often reports of an accident at work. And you know how many cases were in those reports where the labour inspector had to write in the section who was responsible for the accident. He was always an employee responsible, never an employer or anyone else, he was always a careless worker, so that's what it said, but in court it turns out different, the court has a court and has an expert, and then 90% of it ends differently. So, I agree with you that there were problems with the labour inspection, so you say the fight against working on black, so whoever works more, 380 thousand unemployed, is getting less and less work for labour inspectors. Furthermore, you said, here's your colleague with a fire about the Penal Code against those who don't pay their salaries and don't pay their contributions, so how much money is there today, so here's Castle, here's Reese, here's the Immunological Institute, people work, don't get paid, where are criminal charges against employers and the majority owner is the state, so we're gonna sue or whoever, huh? Fifteen thousand people don't get paid, the majority owner of the state, who are we going to prosecute, Minister? I don't know who else? So, they really don't do their jobs, and eventually, you say black work, here's Djura Djakovic's director, he's generally opened up and Drito's simply d.o.o. for importing weeds, medicines, pharmaceuticals, and I don't know about Zagreb. What's the labour inspection doing? Nothing. What's he gonna do in the future? It is truly very commendable that you think that now that this move and this administrative redesign of the labour inspection will be better. You're optimistic, really, but without the right optimism.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67223	Time. Thank you. Here's a reply from your colleague Kovačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67224	Here's a thank you for this replica. I'm not as optimistic as you've pointed out, I've even been in my debate quite clever because you've made me a little bit, I'm not hard to get angry but they bother me, this area, this area of the world of work I especially care about, so in this my optimism and my brilliance. This doesn't make sense to me what you say, the number of unemployed and working on black, and now we just need a fight against working on black, so every job, today is a sacred job, right? Well, every job we need. Well, whoever's working on the black gets a job for this job at the Employment Service. So if everyone was employed, who would talk about working on black today? Or this gray zone, a gray work zone that we weren't talking about today, but we could talk about it. And the number of newly unemployed, or you're talking about 17,000 people who work and don't get paid. Oh, shit, that's terrible. I was alone for eight months without pay. That's terrible. But let's remind ourselves that this number recently was 80 grand. That's not a good answer. Here, I'm not happy with this answer because I'm not looking for an alibi in that, not an alibi for this government, not for this ministry, not for myself as a representative of my club. But it's a fact and it's reduced. And of course I'll be the happiest when it's 0 and when this number of unemployed gets drastically reduced. And it's not true because I'm something, too, this one I know from the field of protection at work, it's not true that he's always a responsible worker. I let that happen often, I know a lot of cases where there was an employer. The second question is now court practice, lawyers, we know the flow, please nice, but this basic application, I know a few examples, and it's been 10 years and over, so it hasn't always been all against the workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67225	Time. Thank you. Next replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67226	Mr. Kovacic, Ciro Blažević, the coach of all coaches has one saying when he talks to reporters 'if I ever die', he says. So if you ever come back to power, you should be given a term of six years because it takes you two years to prepare. Two years to prepare for you to start working. You said now that this government, I quote you finally says or says it's going to fight work on black, the opposition raises its voice. Well, it's a good thing you didn't remember in the last third of that last quarter when you were in power to do something. Well, you remembered early to protect the workers. And how do you protect the workers? You say we have the Rigid Labour Act. So now you're bringing in some kind of labour law? As your employers dictated on your basements, such a labour law will be. Now you teach the opposition how we raise our voice when you introduce them to the country of order. So what order? Administratively. I'm not personally, when I was talking about those agricultural laws, these 18, I'm not against the State Inspectorate transforming. The way the radio was supposed to break him up. And how the labour inspectors did it. The problem is that inspectors in no segment do business as they should. Inspectors do, but they don't do a good job. But you remembered in the third year of your term that you needed to change something. And exactly there, you used to be advocates of that Labour Act, now you're advocates of this Labour Act, which HDZ has proposed, perhaps even in a milder version. And now, all of a sudden, when, as the Prime Minister here said, we beat the workers. Well, they need someone to beat them up when you're crucifying them on the cross. Well, at least somebody beats them. We don't fight, we know their troubles. That's what a union leader said, I don't remember which one, if Prime Minister Milanovic were to run into a road worker, he wouldn't recognize it as a worker. That's how you work in the Kukurik Coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67227	Thank you. My colleague Kovaciq's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67228	Thank you very much. Here's after this upset in showing this replica you made me think for a moment about what would be very bad for Croatia, which is that you would come to power and I would be part of the opposition. Of course, I don't have the right to wish for it, but hypothetically, if I were a writer, I'd write such a futuristic novel, and that would be interesting. You can't take the right to represent workers and what's left of work and workers. It's not you and this alibi, or our e-mail, that you can't use any of your verbal acrobatics and winding us out.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67229	Drazen Djurovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67230	Thank you. So here's a colleague I've been trying to figure out your call to consensus, to constructiveity, but I haven't been able to figure out exactly what exactly, frankly speaking. When it comes to the renegotiation of the State Inspectorate, do you have any example of an analysis that showed, which would give black to the white-clear elements why the institution should be abolished? Or we can talk about a general perception of the dissatisfaction of citizens with the work of the State Inspectorate. If we're going to talk about general perception, we can discuss the general perception of the citizens of the working Croatian Parliament. Are we going to consider ending it as a coincidence? Or about the general perception of the satisfaction of Croatian citizens with the efficiency of the Croatian judiciary? Which we can't stop, either. And if we're going to take some quantified data from some of the analyses that were so far gone, then we should see, I think a measure like this will certainly be in the time that comes around this Croatian society's head. We'll get even more efficiency, even more mess, even less the results of these inspections that are now directly monitored as virtually the bodies of the ministries. And on the other hand, when it comes to work, about work, about working on black, about fighting the gray economy, at the time of the recession in which Croatia is located, I do not believe that our focus should be on it at all. I really don't believe it, I don't believe in your thesis that if we succeed in waiting for anyone who works black to take a place for someone who works by contract. These times require a focus on very different measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67231	My colleague Kovaciq's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67232	Thank you very much. Well, when you mentioned that I mentioned a consensus that would be necessary, but above all, I was referring to the arrangement of labour rights. And in this second part, when you respected that this was a proposed solution based on a certain perception or as you've already expressed yourself, I remind you, and that last week was what we were talking about when we talked about this whole set of inspections, that the analysis was done. And one thing I particularly remember about that is one setting that comes from that analysis that a total inspector is and lacks speaking in general. The second observation was that they did a lot of cabinet work in the offices that they were too little in the field. And please, that's nice. This is if we take a picture to the field of work, then we can do it in particular, and we need to especially highlight the labour inspector and the safety inspector at work must be where the work is done. In the end, these are European experiences, we keep saying it, I don't know here it wasn't said in the opening but as far as I know the data and now I repeat it again, Poland doesn't have such an orderly labour ministry means complete Europe, so it's saying something. Yeah, well, I'm asking nicely, and why we don't have that public conversation, and we need that, so we're all MPs, right, so I guess we can listen to it and then pass it on to this House of Commons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67233	Thank you, too. And final Minister Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67234	Thank you very much. I'm sorry that one good initiative is trying in a very strange way to say populist because everything is not good, everything this government is not good but is the opposite. Well, let me assure you, first of all, about the organization of the work of an inspectorate. Austria, the smallest number of unemployed, is the country's organised social dialogue, labour inspection is within the Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection as a special management inspectorate of work headed by a director who is directly responsible to the minister. They have 20 district offices that are directly subordinated to the central inspectorate. So the same thing we're predicting. Belgium, the labour inspectorate is located in the Federal Public Employment and Social Labour and Social Dialogue. Bulgaria, the General Labour Inspectorate, is located within the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Cyprus, the labour inspection is within the Ministry of Labour and Social Security at the Office for the Control of Labour at the head of the administration is the director directly responsible to the minister. The Czech Republic, the state office of labour inspection, was established by a special law, as we do, as an office within the Ministry of Labour and Social Care headed by the president appointed by the minister and directly responsible to the minister. The State Inspectorate consists of regional offices. Denmark, the labour inspection, is located in the Danish Labour and Environment Authority, which is the agency under the auspices of the Ministry of Employment headed by the Director-General responsible for Employment. Estonia, the labour inspectorate was established by special law as an agency within the Ministry of Social Affairs headed by the Director. The labour inspection shall be responsible for the Minister of Social Affairs, who shall direct and coordinate his activities and shall exercise control over the work of the Labour Inspectorate. Finland, labour inspection is located within the Ministry of Social Welfare and Health within the Agency for Protection at Work. France, a labour inspection in France, operates within the Ministry of Labour, Agriculture and Transport, is primarily responsible for the Minister of Labour. Greece, the labour inspectorate, is located within the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection, headed by the director and working under the supervision of a special secretary appointed by the government. Ireland, the Ministry of Labour, entrepreneurship and innovation is responsible for the work and within the ministry a labour inspection is established. In Italy, the labour inspectorate is located within the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy as a special administration. The ministry determines the national priorities of the work of the labour inspectorate, the director is directly responsible to the minister. Latvia, the State Labour Inspectorate is a state institution whose legal status of jurisdiction and regulation established by a special law, noting, the same thing we do. The State Labour Inspectorate is directly subordinated to the Ministry of Care. The Ministry of Care shall be responsible for preparing protection at work, health policy, and the inspectorate shall ensure the effective implementation of this policy. Lithuania, the State Labour Inspectorate is the body of the State Administration acting under the Ministry of Social Security and Labour of the Republic of Lithuania. At the head of the inspectorate, the Chief State Inspector of Labour is responsible for the Minister. Luxembourg, the Labour Inspectorate and... acts as a special administration within the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Solidarity and Economy responsible for the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Solidarity. Hungary, the Hungarian Labour Inspectorate is a body that corresponds directly to the Ministry of Social and Labour. Malta, The Authority for Health and Safety of the Body, which in this work is independent of the Government but is financed from the area and is under the supervision of the Ministry of Health. The Netherlands, the Labour Inspectorate is organised by special administration within the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. Germany, which we like to compare to Arbeitsamt, is the administration operating within the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare, oversees 16 regional inspections. Each regional inspection shall be responsible for the work of the competent regional government. In Poland, only labour inspection has been established as a special independent body which oversees the application of labour regulations, labour protection and corresponds directly to the Fair or lower House of Parliament, which is the authority of the Supreme Authority in Poland. Portugal, the General Labour Inspectorate and the Central Inspectorate, which is subject to the responsibility of the Ministry of Employment. Romania's labour inspection works within the Ministry of Labour, Social Protection and the elderly. Slovakia, the National Inspectorate is a special administration within the Ministry of Labour and Social Care and has regional units. Slovenia, an inspection of the work of the Republic of Slovenia established as an administrative body within the Ministry of Labour and Social Care, is headed by the chief labour inspector responsible for the minister. The Labour and Social Security Inspectorate in Spain is a special administration within the Ministry of Employment, Social Security which is responsible for the control, respect for work and social legislation. Sweden, the labour inspection is organised within one of the five departments of the environmental protection work body established as an agency under the supervision of the industry ministry and employment and communication. Great Britain, the ministry within the ministry, operates a special Committee on Health and Security, a public body with crown status, under the supervision of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions and are responsible for the minister. Did all these countries do this because they want ministers to control, that they do not trust that it can be effectively controlled and that it can function effectively. So I absolutely reject any insinuation that I have heard here that now the Minister of Labour or someone else will order or control the work of the labour inspectorate because the countries of the European Union would not set it up in their countries. The Labour Inspectorate is an independent body that will work better and more efficiently and for which the minister will be responsible to work and effectively implement the law. But the minister won't be the one to order you to go here, go there or don't go there. And therefore, if you have read the good law of the director of the labour inspector, we call it a public tender. That he has the position of assistant given the rights and given what he has... But he won't be called a politician. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's chosen by public competition. His assistants will not be appointed by the government but will be chiefs of the sector they have been before. When we talk about powers,... the law which makes it very clear, therefore, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of Ministrys and other central bodies of the State Administration, Article 10. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the day of the entry into force of this Law, the State Inspectorate's Offices within the framework of the section laid down by this law shall be taken over by the competent ministries now that I do not read them. This Regulation shall enter On the date of entry into force of this Act, the Ministry shall take over the equipment, the lettering and other documentation, the means of work, the financial resources and the rights and obligations of the State Inspectorate and the civil servants found in the taken over transactions. At the time of entry into force of this Act, State officials of the State Inspectorate shall continue to work on the work on which they are found and retain salaries under current regulations until the adoption of the Labour Schedule Act under the Regulation referred to in Article 13(2) of this Act. This Regulation shall enter The departments that take over State Inspectorate’s tasks shall continue to carry out the tasks undertaken under current regulations until the adoption or amendment of the specific laws governing their implementation. Therefore, the work of the inspector until the moment he was formed as a special administrative unit in the ministry is absolutely legal and they were working and doing their job, I also gave you a report on what they were doing. When we talk about the commission, we took the commission from the State Inspectorate, so the way to work to make a decision in the regional unit and the complaint to be considered at the central unit, so the State Inspectorate has been since the State Inspectorate, and it didn't bother anyone, now suddenly it bothers. Therefore, the commission that we are proposing here, a commission located in the State Inspectorate, and that is a commission composed of people from the State Inspectorate who did not make a decision at the first degree. And on the other hand, when we talk about this variable member, given that the members of the commission are a legal profession, then this independent member of the profession is the one that, for which the complaint is expressed. On the other hand, a further objection can be made to the administrative court and to all that goes beyond that. Article 3. So we exempt, therefore, the honourable representative of Hrelja, from the areas in which the labour inspectorate does not operate, which is, for example, the area of working relations in the field of education, in the police, in the military, to establish a special system for them, and that is what we have provided for by the Labour Protection Act to return protection to these segments but will be linked within the systems themselves. And as for the special conditions for inspectors, those are the conditions they receive under the collective contract. Therefore, these are not specific conditions for that inspector to meet, but these are the specific conditions that they have during their work and in the performance of their work and therefore receive a certain fee. Yeah, we're going to specialize in some work protection inspectors, so we've changed the way we work, so we're going to go on a territorial principle, and that means that there's not going to be any more inspectors on our own, but there's going to be more inspectors, so we're going to work a completely different way. Of course there will still be controls that are, but there will be a completely different way of working. And why we've put that criminal order can be filed, but in some cases it can't be submitted later. What if the inspector gets sick, and it is clear that a criminal order has to be filed, so it is in those cases when it is clear that a criminal order has to be filed, and the inspector cannot do so for some of his reasons. Therefore, the law itself ensures that the law is implemented, that the law, therefore, and all the laws that fall within the work of the Inspectorate of the work is very effective, and when we talk about the State Inspectorate, I think I have made it clear to you that the European Union's lack of experience that the labour inspection should not have been in the State Inspectorate, and, on the other hand, the State Inspectorate if we wanted to unite it, then we should have brought it together at the level of all 40 inspections that are currently operating outside the State Inspectorate. In any case, we feel that we will function more effectively in this way, and we will also report to the Parliament on what happened in the year at the State Inspectorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67235	Thank you, Minister. We're moving on to replicas. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67236	Mr. Minister, here I will repeat myself, personally I don't mind, and it's even logical for me for the labour inspectors to be part of the ministry and you've counted, and at first we realized that Poland alone is not part of the Ministry of Labour or is not responding to the Ministry of Labour. So it's unquestionable, I don't want to discuss it at all. So it doesn't bother us by form alone, it's the way he's worked so far and the time when this change is brought. She's too late. So we are plagued by practice and we are disturbed by the atmosphere in which you bring these changes, and the atmosphere is negative for the workers because you know what the unions think, what most workers in Croatia think. You know as well as I do that most of those who pleaded for the general strike have pleaded for the general strike. So it's not the ones who chose you to do what you do for them, and it's absolutely certain that we have four eyes open when you bring any change. I don't think this change will bring any negativity in itself, but it will already pass this law that you see, the Labour Act that you're proposing, which will probably be passed because the Prime Minister said we have to do it and we'll do it. It is absolutely certain that here it is seen in the very law to prefer agencies, to prefer employers, or capitalists, and it is not exactly as the Prime Minister has previously said that this government cares for that middle class and small employers. 260 large-scale capitalists hold jobs in the Republic of Croatia, thus it is known who is affected and it is the biggest accident for this law as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67237	Thank you. Answer, Minister Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67238	Well, clearly, as soon as the Minister of Labour is able to turn away the discussion of the Labour Act and the Labour Protection Act. We'll have plenty of time here in the Parliament and on the committees to discuss the law. Changes are necessary, changes should be made and, in any case, when we talk about the Labour Act, it must preserve jobs at the moment, it must enable new jobs to be opened, it must enable us to restructure the labour market quickly, to become competitive, that we can be competitive in the European Union, but also outside the European Union, and all of these are changes that are clear that at these times they can look like this or in such a way. I'm sure when we talk about workers' rights, we haven't touched workers' rights, severances remain the same, cancellation deadlines remain the same. So we'll have plenty of time to cross-reference both our discussions and our knowledge of what this law needs to do, but in any case, it's time to do some things because we have to move forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67239	Thank you. Gold shower, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67240	Thank you, Vice President. Well, dear ministers, when you've listed the countries and it's not disputed that labour inspectors should be part of the ministry, but you probably lost a sentence in your slip. When you spoke about Austria, then you said a country arranged with social dialogue. Now, we have the Union's representative law, it's not in line with the social partners. Pension Insurance Act, Labour Act, Labour Protection Act, this Labour Inspection Act. There is no more social dialogue in Croatia. Your portfolio includes social dialogue. When it was the last meeting of the Economic and Social Council, when these laws were discussed and on what basis would you believe that these laws are in the citizens' interest if they were not discussed with the social partners. It is not enough to have a 14-day public debate, publish on the website and make their remarks. In order for a particular social consensus to occur, the state to move forward then needs something much more to do with the bill, to agree, to respect certain arguments, or to say on the basis of the facts, to come out, which is why certain arguments from the other side could not be respected. That's what we haven't heard from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67241	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67242	I see you only have your social dialogue at one high level, so at the level of the Economic Social Council. It's one dimension of social dialogue, but social dialogue is much more and much deeper than what you're talking about right now. So, when we talk about these laws today that we're going to discuss about pension laws, they're being debated within the bodies of the Economic Social Council, they're being discussed with social partners, and it's clear that since we're talking about social partners, you only have one social partner, and you don't understand the other. So they're government's equal social partners both. So we listen to each other. And when we can, we can reach consensus, and when we can't reach consensus then the government takes responsibility to bring certain legal solutions. When we talk about the Law of Representativeship, then it's a law that hasn't been passed in 15 years and we even got foreign consultants who were trying to get that bill. We took the responsibility to pass this law, because that law is just as important as the Labour Act and the Labour Protection Act, and that's what we did. And we said after a year we'd watch what it was about. And this law, yes, is in line with the social partners but it was a problem that certain union centres around certain parts of the law failed to agree between themselves what solution would be in the law. Therefore, when we talk about social dialogue, be fair and then talk about general social dialogue. The government also talks about those cases when it comes to helping. We've been talking to the pyrotechnics lately, where the government was the one who was the Moderator. We're talking and we've got unions around the Immunological Institute, about the greenhouses. So it's not like there's no social dialogue. But social dialogue is not only the Economic Social Council, but it is also social dialogue in both the sectoral councils and within the Ministry of Labour and within other ministries.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67243	Thank you, Minister. Drazen Djurovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67244	At the beginning of your presentation, you brought out states and how these inspections of work are located in certain countries. And indeed, when it's likely that's how you put it. I don't know. But whether these countries had a tradition of such solutions or those countries as the Republic of Croatia had a tradition of some 15-year-old solution, and then they decided once in a fast flight overnight not to do so anymore, but to do so in another way. What am I saying? These intolerable eases of the formation and disappearance of institutions in this brief history of our country in just 23 years of countless institutions have arisen and disappeared. I think it is almost a unique precedent, and I believe that there are no such examples in Europe at all in the EU space, that in one country, so many institutions have grown and disappeared in such a short time. And yes, but we had one institution that existed for 15 years and a debate about two weeks, a political decision, a quick transition, 12 new amendments to the law, and here it is. Now we have something else. That's the model that's going on in this case, and maybe this will be good, and maybe it won't. But we don't have guarantees that there will be or that it won't be. But this unbearable ease of eradicating and creating something else and one fundamental administrative, legal, social, economic uncertainty for both citizens and users, both for the economy and for everyone. It's not good. That's actually what I wanted to point out.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67245	Thank you. Answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67246	Well, you'd better not have answered the line, because you're contradictory to yourself. So, if the EU of 27 countries has that solution, just to tell you that Austria, I did not, it did not come out. So, I wasn't a lapus mint, so Austria itself is an orderly state. Yeah, but when we talk about their labour law, then their cancellation deadlines are completely different than ours and there's no reason to cancel. While our Labour Act is quite different, yet Austria functions in the way it works. The labour inspectorate in Austria is an institution that lasts 40 years if not more. The inspection of work in the former country and in modern Croatia was within the Labour Inspectorate, within the Ministry of Labour. Therefore, it was not easy to change now, but it was easy to get the Labour Inspectorate into the State Inspectorate. That was easy. Yes, therefore, we are only correcting this by which neither workers are satisfied nor unions are satisfied nor employers nor we are in charge of law enforcement. And with this we ensure that it is better, that it is more effective and that it does what needs to be done, which is to protect the interests of workers, but also the interests of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67247	Thank you. And the last replica of Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67248	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I'm glad you said there would be no political appointment, but that the directors would be appointed to a public competition. And I'm glad we won two public competitions in Croatia. Because when the SDP calls a public tender, then it's not a political appointment, and when HDZ called a competition for directors of the administration, that's why. Today's assistants and the supervisory boards of state-owned enterprises were then political appointments. So you know your colleagues and colleagues today we have two public tenders. So when it's a public tender for SDP, then it's not a political appointment, and when it's HDZ, it's a political appointment. So much for our political correctness.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67249	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67250	So, the Labour Inspectorate as well as other units, so you know that the director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Employment Office, we want to list more names of people based on a public tender. This is about the profession, so there will be a public tender and people from the inspectorate will compete, so those who if you saw the conditions of the competition then you see that the future director must have a 10-year experience in these areas. Therefore, we want and want that labour inspector, or that director of the labour inspectorate, to be the one who is really professional. And maybe it bothers you that he's five years old and then you won't be able to replace him.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67251	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67252	Final proposal of the Labour Inspectorate Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 588. The debate on the text of the law is over. The government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I beg your pardon? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that the majority of votes 113 votes in favour and 3 against the vote have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the Government's representative to introduce us into the amendments. Amendment No 1. to Article 7. Dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67253	Thank you very much. Therefore, in Article 7(1), the assistant director shall be deleted, this amendment shall delete the words of the assistant director in the provision which shall indicate the persons performing inspection tasks in the work of the Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67254	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Please make a statement. Who's for Amendment number 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that, most of the vote, 85 votes in favour and 31 votes against, we have accepted Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has become an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67255	Article 9 shall be amended and shall be replaced by the Chief of Sectors designated by the Director in the event of the prevention or non-prevention of the Director. The above amendment regulates who may replace the Director in the event of his or her prevention or absence.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67256	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 2. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote 85 votes in favour and 31 votes against Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has thus become an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 3. Honored Minister Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67257	In Article 10(1), the following paragraphs 2-6 are deleted: In the previous paragraphs, 3, 4, 5 and 6 which become items 2, 3, 4 and 5, the assistant director shall be deleted. Since the deleted tasks of the assistant director are deleted by this amendment, the provision on the establishment unit managed by the assistant director and the words of the assistant director to whom the head of the office, head of the service, head of the department and head of the branch are responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67258	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to make a statement to Amendment No. 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 85 votes in favour and 30 votes against Amendment No 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has thus become an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 4. Government of the Republic of Croatia, Honored Minister Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67259	Thank you very much. In Article 11, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, the words of the Assistant Director shall be replaced by the words of the Chiefs of the Sector, paragraph 3 shall be amended and shall read as follows: Those amendments shall, instead of the assistant directors, regulate the specific conditions for the performance of the tasks of the head of the sector to monitor the implementation of labour regulations, i.e. labour protection regulations, and shall more clearly regulate the specific conditions for the performance of the tasks of the other sector chiefs in the Central Office of Labour Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67260	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 4. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment number four of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour and 30 votes against Amendment No. 4 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and becomes an integral part of the final draft of the Law. Please, Ministers of Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67261	In Article 17, paragraphs 3 and 4, the Assistant Director shall be replaced by the words of the Head of the Sector. Since the work of assistant directors has been deleted, this amendment shall regulate the powers of the Chiefs of the Sector to decide on the exemption of the inspector, i.e. the objection.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67262	I am opening a debate on Amendment 5 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement to Amendment 5. Who's in? Thank you. Does anyone mind? There is. Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 84 votes in favour and 30 votes against, have adopted Amendment 5 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number six, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67263	Thank you, Mr. President. In Article 40, paragraphs 3 and 4 are amended and read as follows: "The President, i.e. the Vice-President of the Board of Appeals, may be a civil servant who has completed a pre-graduate, graduate university study or an integrated pre-graduate and graduate university study or a specialist professional study of law with at least 4 years of working experience in the affairs of the labour inspector and passed a state expert exam for the labour inspector." A Member, i.e. paragraph 4: "A Member, i.e. a member of the Board of Appeal, may be a civil servant who does not have completed a pre-graduate, graduate university study or an integrated pre-graduate, graduate university study or specialist professional law study if he fulfils the other conditions set out in paragraph 3 of this Article." These amendments clarify the specific conditions to be met by civil servants in order to be appointed president or member of the Labour Inspectorate's Board of Appeals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67264	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment Six. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making amendments to Amendments 6. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour and 30 votes against Amendment No. 6 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and has become an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number seven, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67265	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Nomotechnically, the legal text is improved in such a way that the provisions on the suspension of the provisions of the State Inspectorate Act which do not apply to inspection tasks in the field of work and protection at work, as well as to labour inspectors are referred to as a special article.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67266	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Amendment number 7. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am giving to declare Amendments No. 7. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 84 votes in favour and 30 votes against Amendment No. 7 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and thus became an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 8, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67267	The new Article 57, which reads: "The days of entry into force of this law shall cease to apply to the provisions of the State Inspectorate Act relating to inspection tasks in the field of work and protection at work and to labour inspectors." Article 57 so far becomes Article 58, the explanation is as for Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67268	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Amendment number 8. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment number 8 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour and 30 votes against Amendment No. 8 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and thus became an integral part of the final draft of the law. Dear Ministers, we are now going to the amendments to the Legislative Committee. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67269	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67270	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I'd like to make a statement about the final... The amendments were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia within the deadline, so they... All right, all right. The amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia within the deadline have become an integral part of the final draft law, so we do not decide on it. I'm closing the debate on the bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. The adoption of this law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, which is 76 votes in accordance with Article 252. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please make a statement. Who's for the final bill? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 84 votes in favour and 29 votes against the adopted Labour Inspectorate Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67271	Now, please, colleagues and colleagues, let's move on. My colleagues and colleagues, can we continue? Here, thank you. Now, according to the agreement of the clubs, we're going to go to a united debate of three final drafts of the law. - Final proposal of the Pension Fund Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 526 - Final proposal of the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 527 - Final proposal of the Pension Insurance Companies Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 524 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. You've received reports. Minister Miranda Mrsic and his associates are also with us. Minister of the Introductory? Short, please, come in. [[Intruder Mrssic: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67272	Thank you, well-respected MPs and MPs. It's too late, but I think we've discussed these laws for the last time in a late period. Therefore, we have before us the final proposal of the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, the final proposal of the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and the final proposal of the Pension Insurance Companies Act. What is the fact that 4 compulsory pension funds, 23 voluntary pension funds, of which 6 open and 16 closed pension funds and one pension insurance company operate in Croatia so far. Mandatory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings at the end of 2013 included a total of millions and 692 thousand 218 members, while the net assets of compulsory pension funds amounted to around 58 billion kuna. Voluntary pension insurance at the end of 2013 included a total of 227,000 231 insurance, 204 thousand 506 insurance companies in the open and 22,000 675 in closed pension funds. The net assets of open voluntary pension funds amounted to 2.21 billion kuna in December 2013, while the net assets of closed voluntary pension funds amounted to HRK 494.6 million. So we want to achieve a more orderly capitalised system that will ensure a satisfactory level of social security for our citizens of age. The final proposal of the Mandatory Pension Funds Act shall regulate the accumulation phase of the mandatory pension insurance funds based on the compulsory capitalised savings in a comprehensive and comprehensive manner. This proposal clearly defines the following: conditions for the establishment, termination of the work of compulsory pension funds, the risk management system, supervision, audit and reporting. The paper is also an opportunity to exercise the right to retire under the Pension Insurance Act for insurance workers who have achieved an insurance internship with an increased duration which the applicable law could not achieve. Standards are introduced to determine that the new fund members who first enter the system and who have not chosen their own pension fund whose members they wish to be will be allocated in a way that each fund will receive an equal number of unallocated members. So far, one who has the most members has received the highest number of unscheduled members. We are introducing three portfolios A, B and C that are adjusted to the retirement age of the members in such a way as to provide the members of the A and B Funds with the possibility of investing in a more risky asset that brings a higher contribution while limiting investment in the minimum risk of assets to the members of the C Fund. Fundes A and B are allowed to participate in infrastructure projects up to 10% of the net assets in an individual project in order to increase the involvement of members' assets in infrastructure projects and thus also the economic development of the country. Their investments in these projects can reach up to 15% of the assets of these funds in total in all projects, which is a significant potential in relation to the total value of the funds. The law regulates the way in which the assets of pension funds are managed with a view to reducing the risk of falling values with an obligation to increase the dispersion of assets. More specifically, the new law regulates the keeping of personal accounts of members of compulsory pension funds and the evaluation of their total assets. This law limits the possibility of investing pension funds up to 2% after one investment compared to the net value of the total assets of the funds and the possibility of investing the assets above 10% of the shares of the companies so far in order to increase the investment of funds in the development of the domestic economy. The final draft of the law is more precisely the work of the Central Insurance Register and the exercise of the supervision of the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency at these institutions and we prescribe greater obligations as regards the companies themselves for the management of funds. The objective of the proposed Voluntary Pension Fund Act is to further develop, improve third-degree savings, ensure that as many people as possible of the Republic of Croatia who wish to save in the third pillar as possible, this law specifically regulates the establishment of business activities, supervision and, in particular, prudential supervision related to voluntary pension funds and pension societies managed by them in relation to the current law, the pension society would allow the establishment and management of open-end investment funds with a public offer to cross-border operations of closed and voluntary pension funds management companies in other EU Member States. It shall be possible to pay out pensions other than through a pension insurance company and through funds if the payment is temporary, the value of the assets shall be less than 50 thousand kuna in the account and provided that it lasts at least five years. A partial payment of up to a maximum of 30% of the amount in the account of a member or more but not more than 10 thousand kuna to a one-time payment if the member is over 50 years old and there are less than 10 thousand kuna in the account. The level of the underlying and minimum amount of capital is determined, permitted investments are regulated, investment limit and over-investment of voluntary pension funds, definition and indirect and direct supervision of the operations of pension societies, voluntary pension funds, depositaries and other entities through the verification of legality. The final proposal of the Pension Insurance Companies Act proposes to regulate the pension payment phase from compulsory and voluntary pension insurance, based on unequalised capitalised savings, in a comprehensive manner, the operations of pension insurance companies are regulated in accordance with European standards, the harmonisation of the provisions of the Activity and Control Directive of the institutions for occupational pension insurance, which has not been the case so far. This final proposal for a law shall, in an entirely precise manner, regulate the business and pension insurance companies precisely define the subject of the operation, which is to pay the tax on those types of pensions, and distinguish transactions directly or indirectly related to the business of a pension insurance company. More specifically, the subject of the arrangement of this final bill is the establishment and operation of pension insurance companies that pay pensions under compulsory and voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings, pensions on the basis of a single payment of persons to a pension insurance company, pension pensions under a voluntary pension scheme and purchased pensions under a voluntary pension programme, then a pension programme of compulsory and voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings, pension programmes on the basis of a single payment of persons to a pension insurance company, a voluntary pension scheme and a voluntary programme for the purchase of pensions and pensions, pensions and the purchase of pensions and pensions. This proposal clearly defines the legal forms of a pension insurance company, the organisational requirements that must be met by a pension insurance company in accordance with the standards of European regulations, the supervision of operations following the principle of takeover and the directive on the supervision activities of institutions for occupational pension insurance, ensuring the thorough harmonisation that is necessary and sufficient to ensure mutual recognition of the system of authorisation for work and prudential supervision, so that pension insurance companies can work in Croatia both outside Croatia and vice versa. The strict rules of promotional activities shall be laid down and rules of conduct shall be laid down to resolve complaints of pensioners. Finally, in relation to the offer of pension programmes, this legislative proposal also extends to two new voluntary pension programmes for workers and employees under strictly prescribed conditions and under certain circumstances. In relation to the payment of taxes or other charges, the means to which pension insurance companies are designated and which are the basis for determining pensions, pensions and pensions, the opportunity to transfer them, or the payment of that material, will be governed by a special tax law. The Mandatory Pension Funds Act complements a provision that allows members of the pension society's administration to choose from the board of directors of the stock exchange and regulates provisions relating to the termination of validity and withdrawal of approval for the work of the pension society and members of the management and supervisory society. The other two legislative proposals are in line with the latest amendment to the Directive on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational pension insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67273	Thank you, Minister. We have two replicas. Martina Dalic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67274	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Actually, one question. I'd like you to explain a little bit that I understand better. You have also said in the bill of reasoning that one of the newspapers in this law is the possibility that insurance companies who have completed an internship with an increased duration exercise the right to retire under the Pension Insurance Act can now exercise the right to retire and under this law. I actually wanted to ask you what categories of employees that apply to.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67275	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67276	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67277	Thank you. Ivan Shuker replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67278	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, very briefly, since both the prime minister and the finance minister today said that the second pillar of the pension will not take part in saying so in the recovery of the excessive deficit, I'm interested in your answer, won't it, won't it? Short, clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67279	That's what the prime minister and minister said.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67280	Thank you. These weren't exactly classic replicas, but acceptable. Does anyone on behalf of the Committee want to take a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Grubisic-Kain. There's no one here. They're losing their right to debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Vanja Posavac, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67281	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will also support the Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Pension Funds and the Proposal for a Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and of course the Proposal for a Law on Pension Insurance Companies. Since the law is in the second reading, I will continue my debate on all three laws, however summed up on what I consider to be the most important. By following the movement in the pension insurance system on the basis of individual capitalised savings through the multiannual application of the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, the current application of that law pointed to the need to separate the two existing systems of individual capitalised savings, mandatory, voluntary in two specific laws. In this way, further development and improvement of the individual capitalised savings system will be possible, with a view to improving the future social security of insurance in the light of EU entry. This legislative proposal precisely regulates the conditions for the establishment and termination of the work of pension funds and pension societies for the management of pension funds, their organisational structure, core capital and dispersion of membership property investments in order for the system to be stable and without earthquakes. In addition, a detailed risk management system is prescribed which the pension society must contain, the way in which the company works, audits and reporting on the work of the company. They shall be introduced within the existing system of three new categories of pension funds a, b and c which differ according to the retirement period of the members by restrictions on investment and investment strategy. It is also prescribed to keep personal accounts and asset valuations where the contributions paid to the pension fund and the transferred accounts are recorded in favour of the personal accounts on behalf of the member, and the funds in the personal account of the pension fund member are his personal property which cannot be subject to enforcement or insurance against a member of the pension fund or part of its bankruptcy or liquidation mass. Such funds may also not be subject to an application or insurance against depositary or any other person, nor enter into the bankruptcy or liquidation mass of depositaries or any other person. The minimum basic capital of the pension company for the management of a compulsory pension fund of 40 million kuna, i.e. an additional increase in the amount of the lowest underlying capital prescribed by law, which regulates the establishment and operation of voluntary pension funds, should the pension company also carry out the management activity of such funds. The paper, as mentioned in the provisions of the proposed law, is therefore also capable of ensuring that insurance companies who have completed an internship with an increased duration during their working life and are entitled to pension under the Pension Insurance Act can exercise the right to retire from the second pension pillar. As regards therefore the Voluntary Pension Fund Act, what is important, therefore, is that voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings on 31 May 2013 covers a total of 219 830 insurance companies, of which 196 676 insurance companies are open and 23 154 in closed pension funds. The proposed law therefore lays down the scope of its application and the EU rules which have been transposed to national legislation. These provisions prohibit the business of pension programmes and the management of voluntary pension funds without the approval of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, the management of pension societies' registers and voluntary pension funds, the publication of a list on the websites, legal forms of pension societies, the distinction of the basic activities of the pension society, the category of activities of the pension society in the Republic of Croatia, and the obligation of prior authorisation to work and territorial determination of the activities of the pension society and the possibility of working at EU level by establishing a branch or directly on the basis of the freedom to provide services. It is also established by law the level of underlying and minimum capital, as well as the capital requirements for a pension company which manages a closed pension fund with defined incomes. Conditions shall be laid down for a member of the pension society, the criteria to be taken into account when assessing the suitability, suitability and financial stability of shareholders or members of the pension system, management company or direct or indirect holders of qualifying shares. Membership in a voluntary pension fund, open and closed, the way members of a pension fund are entitled, the possibility of a temporary and life-long payment of a pension pension by a pension insurance company or an extremely voluntary pension fund, and the way in which members registers are kept is prescribed. And of course, in this respect, the Pension Insurance Companies Act, namely those laws, the proposed law, is being regulated in a whole and precise manner by the business of pension insurance companies, precisely defines the subject of the business, which is to pay the tax on those types of pensions and distinguishes transactions that are in direct or indirect connection with the business of the pension insurance company, are prescribed legal forms of the pension insurance company and are defined to increase the basic capital of a pension insurance company, which is in accordance with the standards of the Member States prescribed by European regulations. It is also possible for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to intervene with a decision on a proposal from the competent ministry in the event of a notification by the European Commission on controls and adjusted amounts so that, in the event of a need, it can react without delay. Organisational requirements to be met by a pension insurance company and the obligation to establish a comprehensive and effective risk management system shall be established. In relation to the offer of pension schemes, the proposed law extends it to two new voluntary pension programmes for workers and employees under strictly prescribed conditions and under certain circumstances. The new voluntary pension programmes are pension benefits and the addition of pensions through the introduction of which is, to some extent, decommissioning the Generation Solidarity Insurance System by enabling the employer to pay off the new pension system. In view of the above, and in view of the fact that the administrations will, in effect, agree to the pension system and these three laws, the SDP club will be established to support all three draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67282	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HNS club Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67283	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support the adoption of all three laws. Of course, I will not repeat what we heard at the opening and from the minister and everything that is in the good part, and in the introduction of these laws is clearly and resolutely said but I intend to highlight four items for which we in the HNS Club consider to be crucial under these three laws and to make some progress, the safety of users. What we always feel is necessary in the introduction of a law of this type of law to say that it has its importance primarily as it relates at this point to a million and 100 thousand users or members, that it is mandatory pension funds, so that it is about 58.2 billion kuna of net assets, and that in the last year, in the mandatory pension funds, 4,96 billion kuna has been paid, that 40 billion have been invested in government bonds, slightly more than 7 billion in foreign securities, and only 6.63 billion in the domestic economy. And that is what 6,63 this law essentially now opens up a space that is extremely important and crucial not only because of recession and economic situation but also for the need for Croatian citizens' funds to be invested where it is most needed, and that is the domestic economy. One of the key things of this law is to open space, increase the possibility of investing in the Croatian economy in Croatian companies, open space and the possibility that so far not only the pension funds have not only individually but also the joint one, that they can take over strategic companies up to even 80% of the value of companies, which means strategic decisions not only 51% and 50+1 shares, respectively, which means majority ownership. And this is the space I believe that pension funds will, after I believe, realise and enable and be a contribution to us as legislators to pass this law, and pension funds or societies by their management to contribute to the development of the Croatian economy not only infrastructureally but in the right sense, both the production and the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship that they will be able to invest with this law. When we talk about investing in the economy, then we are always talking about risks that have been equally regulated so far not only through the control of HANFA but through a legislative framework that was one of the strongest and best controlled when we talk about pension funds. This law, this package of laws on this issue, raises another scale for another degree of minimum control and investment of control and risk and raises an even greater scale when we talk about governance and all those involved in the management of funds. Also, this law, which I would also like to emphasise on behalf of the HNS Club, and to stress that it requires the management of portfolios to play an active role regarding the active role of investment, the active role of risk control and the active role to be not only investment in bonds but also to be investment but also control when it is managed on the capital market by the user. What's also important is that in the mandatory funds so far there was only one portfolio for the distribution of funds. These laws allow an individual choice of a, b or c category to be made. This law ensures that investments are based on essentially the life cycle, the ability to choose a higher risk of investment in shares, greater profits when young people are working, who have the opportunity to capitalise their assets a little more. It also allows that if they do not want their funds to be modelled and they invest to make that clear and put them into category b or c immediately, it also makes a commitment to pension funds that those who do not have the responsibility and responsibility of investments and risks and schedules in a way that is most adequate and most necessary for those who have individual capitalised savings in pension funds. And I'm going back to making more investment in the economy. It is one of the biggest gains of this law that I believe will be realised, I believe it will be seen already this year in application because only a new way of managing a much better quality organised that these laws make sure that these investment risks are minimal and that they are also for those who invest in pension funds and also for citizens of the Republic of Croatia who expect economic growth and new employment to be much greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67284	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Martina Dalic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67285	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. So here is the fact that today we have still absorbed the topic that has been going through the last few days about whether or not to suspend payments temporarily or permanently in the second pillar, then this debate of ours makes some sense. It threatened, of course, at one point, given the announcements that came from the government that this debate also doesn't make much sense. However, what I wanted to say at the outset is, in fact, one time frame and a time frame in which discussions concerning the financial system and the laws governing the financial system are usually organised in the Assembly. These discussions in some ways always fall at a time when the assembly is empty or in times when there is no concentration for this matter anymore. I wanted to draw your attention to that, Mr. Vice President, because in the laws that regulate the matter of the financial system organization, there was banking, there was a fund-making work on matter that was complex and of interest to a large number of citizens. And then very often in this House you can hear debates where MPs are wondering if it is possible to have such or such solutions. We do, and these solutions are usually adopted in the Croatian Parliament. That is why I think that given the scale and complexity of the matter relating to the financial system, it should not be allowed for such discussions to take place when they remain closed only in the assembly. Because I think they're of interest to a large number of citizens. This one specifically for a million and 700 who have bills in mandatory pension funds and, as the minister said, another 220 thousand who have bills in voluntary pension funds. As regards these laws, the law governing the system of compulsory pension funds, as already pointed out, introduces a newspaper to introduce portfolios in view of the limitations of membership and the restrictions on investment. We believe it's a positive and good feature of this law. However, we also find that there are significant risks that could lead to future and possible problems in the functioning of the second pillar. It is, of course, provisions concerning the investment limit. One such provision is a provision that says that the limit of investment in the securities of one issuer increases from the current 10 to 20% of shares. That's 15% in the case of investment in investment funds. This specifically means that the Croatian pension system, the second pillar, could absorb 80% of the total issue of a single single issuer, provided, of course, that it meets the criterion that the net assets cannot be greater than 3% invested than that of the issuer. However, the 3% today is a billion and 700 million kuna. Such changes to the limits in relation to the current ones open the possibility of a second-degree risk to both one and one single issuer. Which is what it is, at this point, of course you can't see, and in this particular case, it's not clear, but we need to be aware that such a change is being introduced. The current system and the current 10% limit, of the 10% exposure according to one issuer, is prescribed by the HANFA Regulation, which means that it also has certain flexibility. Now this 20% is entered into the law and represents, of course, the possibility that pension funds are more invested in equity securities, but are at risk of having that concentration high on individual issuers. However, what is even more interesting about these investment limits is the introduction of the possibility that so-called II. The pillar may invest, without any restriction, in securities concerning projects financed or securitised by state infrastructure projects. It is clear that this provision, therefore, that pension funds without any restrictions and restrictions on investment can be purchased and held in their assets by securities financed by infrastructure projects, that such a provision is motivated by the creation of space for pension funds to actively participate and participate dominantly in an operation known as highway monetisation. However, in this way, the second pillar is transformed into an exclusive public investment financier. The long column, by definition, is open to the risk of the state, but now additionally, without any restrictions, opens it with the risks of individual state projects. Risk management then becomes almost impossible in the second pillar, as it is possible to imagine that second pillar pension funds in the dominant part of their assets have securities concerning infrastructure projects. Is it likely less or more, it is difficult to assess there, but such a situation can be imagined, and it is the task of funds in the second pillar to manage the property that is owned by our individuals of Croatian citizens in a way that maximises future anunities, to maximise the source for our future pensions and in a way that includes sound financial management. Such investments question this task, and in particular because it is the task of the State to provide a framework and direct the managers of these funds to manage these funds wisely and safely. The state here is actually sending them a completely different signal. And the third question regarding this law is why the reduction of fees is not actually delayed until 2016, and why the reduction of compensations received by management companies is not prompted and not immediately begun. Part of this package is the Pension Insurance Society Act. The Pension Insurance Society Act introduces a major change in the way in which future anunities will be indexed, i.e. future pensions of pensioners from the second pillar. The requirement is introduced to index those pensions in the same way as those in the first pillar. However, the second pillar and the source and payment of pensions from pension insurance companies is a completely different kind of process and a completely different kind of pension. The guarantee companies must also have the possibility to make contributions in the structure of their assets to which they will be able to make the indexation. If the indexation is carried out as in the first instance, then there is no property and there is no kind of property in which pension insurance companies could invest to achieve exactly that indexation rate that they will have to pay. The current law stipulates that future anuitys are indexed to prices and the truth is that even today, there is no instrument that yields the same rate of price growth in assets. Therefore, today there is an obligation in the existing law that it is the state that should issue bonds indexed at prices. It has not been done by the state so far, however, it is a failure and it is a process that can be repaired, but there is no class of assets that could be issued and to ensure the contribution that implies the pension indexation rate as in the first pillar. The technical consequence is the possibility of annuities from pension insurance companies being less than they should be because they will simply take this risk into account in the amount and calculation of the annuities. There is an opportunity for pension insurance companies to invest 20% of their technical reserves in real estate. There's no such limit anywhere. Very rarely, pension insurance companies are allowed to invest in real estate because real estate is a very non-equity instrument. If such a possibility exists, such as exists in Switzerland, then this limit is much lower and is situated specifically in Switzerland at a level of 7% of technical reserves. The reason for this is simple, pension insurance companies have a continuous obligation to pay off annuity and must keep their liquidity and keep their assets in liquid instruments. Obligations of pension insurance companies are safe, they are not as if I were to express ordinary pension insurance companies whose obligation may or may not occur in certain parts of the insurance. This and allowing such a high limit to invest the assets of pension insurance companies in real estate increase the simple risk of the functioning and business of these companies in the future. Finally, this law opens up the possibility for pension insurance companies to pay pensions as family and disability, i.e. as can be paid out of the first pillar. This is completely contrary to the idea, ideas and construction of the second pillar because the height of the annuity and because in this way the link between the actuarial calculations and the amount of pension savings funds to be transferred to pension insurance companies is actually interrupted. The result will be simply a minor annuity. How much smaller, according to some estimates and some expectations, even up to 50%. In conclusion, although this package of laws also makes some positive changes in the second pillar, it also opens up a number of places for increased risks, both in relation to mandatory pension funds in the second pillar and in relation to future pension insurance companies. We believe, therefore, that these changes that I have made here are not good and do not work in favour of future pensioners who will receive pensions from the second pillar. And that's why the HDZ Club will be against this package of laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67286	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67287	Thank you, Mr. President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Croatian Labourists have little, not little but significantly different views when it comes to the second mandatory Mirovinski Fund, and I will explain it on the basis of certain arguments, but also on the basis of certain facts, because this model is only being developed here in Croatia while most of the countries to which the World Bank has imposed such a model of a second compulsory pension pillar abandons such a model, and no country is intended to introduce such a model for financing pensioners in late times. Why? Well, primarily because it causes certain problems and threatens the first pension column. This is generation solidarity, because, based on the introduction of the second pillar, 5% is reduced, which is clearly reflected today through the regular financing of pensions for which we lack a significant part of the funds and what is most important for the second pension pillar in which 70% of state bonds pay a lot of big interest on the basis of the debts you took from the second pension column. This way will have far-reaching consequences for part of the pensioners because they will have to happen that these from the financing of 15% of generation solidarity in some future period will experience significant reductions in funding because they will not be able to finance such pensions from the state budget. And who does the second pension column suit? We need to talk about this openly. It favours financial institutions, private financial banks that the state has ensured by its decision that 5% will go to pension payments without worry. Who else will benefit? Those who have an average salary in the Republic of Croatia, and only 30% of the workers. 70% of the workers are under the average pension. And the moment the payment from the second pension fund will be made for them, they will realize that they were cheated on on the basis of the amounts they would receive. You can see that today, but you'll see it tomorrow. Because we tried and simulated certain calculations by calculating that the increased value of pension funds or capitalised value is somewhere 26% of what the fund members paid. And it's nice to see on those scores when the workers get the amount they've been saving in that second column. But for example today, a man who's been paying for 20 years and couldn't because only 11 years there's a fund. But we tried to simulate what that would mean. 20 years with a minimum salary will be paid at the second pension rate of 160 kuna if he goes into early retirement. If he goes into retirement, he'll have 190 kuna. A worker with 7,000 gross wages or that is somewhere around 4900 kuna net salary in early retirement will receive 370 kuna, and in the full retirement pension of 440 kuna. Clearly, if the payments are higher and all those above the average salary they will have significant benefits because it is a significant financial asset. But I'm talking about the 70% that won't make it happen. We therefore believe that regardless of what is happening here, there is a certain change in the second pension column or the mandatory fund that it should be transformed from compulsory into a voluntary pension fund. Since certain members were paying it is their own property and no one is allowed to touch them, but it should be possible for them to choose whether to continue with this property and the amounts they were paying continue to save in a voluntary pension fund or to return their savings to the first pension pillar of generation solidarity, and then they would in some way set up a system that is in developed countries of Europe and ensure decent pension payments for which the state and should ensure normal pension payments with which people in their late years will be able to normally afford their age, not to dig through containers, and not to seek social aid. Because from a model like this, all those with smaller incomes won't be able to finance themselves. These are the basic reasons why Croatian Labourists do not support this model. We think it's high time that this model was completely different from the facts, based on the arguments, not on the lobbyists of certain financial institutions that are selling fog for something that's going to happen in 30 years, and we don't know what's going to happen in 2 or 3 years and we're telling nice stories, and something else is going to happen. And then when they realize citizens with small incomes that they've been cheated on, who's going to blame them? It will be their fault who passed such laws. When it comes to a voluntary pension fund, then we have one basic remark, which is article 135, which speaks about state incentives, and we see no reason as long as there is a system such as this that there are mandatory funds to be financed and that the state further allocates 15% of the funds to 15 thousand kunas to those who invest in voluntary funds, believing that all those who have part of the financial resources should not be encouraged to save more and that the state in such a situation when it is under excessive deficit and excessive debt still encourages them. This would make sense if there was only the first pension fund and there was a mandatory pension fund and there were other voluntary pension funds then and this kind of incentive would make sense. As long as there is such an institution, it helps those who have extra funds at the expense of all taxpayers who set out in the budget. And these are the basic two reasons that Croatian Labourists will not support these two laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67288	Thank you. Now we'll take a short break of 10 minutes and then we'll continue with the replicas. [[It's 7:00. 15 o'clock.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 19, 25 HOURS]] Comrades and colleagues, continue with the replicas, Branko Vuksic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67290	Here's someone before saying it and leaving how few of us are in the assembly, how we're discussing it a little while ago but the main thing is to say it, yes. Here, Mr. Tušak, you can see how two parties agree when large capital needs to be protected, when money institutions of HDZ and SDP should be protected, and when HDZ banks and SDP are in the same positions. That's what it is, and it's going to vote like that, it's going to go through with a few votes here in the background against, I hear the HDSSB supports the same thing, so then we're going to be white crows. First of all, it was a suicidal move to establish a second pillar. In a country that has almost as many pensioners as employees. What happened to that move? Generational solidarity comes down to the Church. We know how big the pension debt is. But no one will say, you hear we've made a mistake and I think the same left government has made a mistake, now the left can be literally in the left sense. Yeah, two lefts say so. The government seems to be living in a fictitious world as it was living in a fictional world when we warned, don't reduce contributions to health care, health care is collapsed, health care is falling apart in Croatia but it was sent to the Prime Minister, we won't change anything, what we're going to change, the minister is fantastic, the doctors are leaving, there's no medicines, there's no toilet paper, everything's in catastrophic condition and this government is all great. The government stays, it's like this, probably thinks it's still four years old because it's a preparation period. So it's not enough of these warnings, we really need to collapse everything, then they'll probably wake up the sleeping ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67291	Thank you. My colleague Tušak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67292	Thank you. Well, fellow Vuksic, it is. No one wants to resent financial institutions and everyone speaks in gloves and no one has mentioned today what happened in funds related to certain investments in the center of the bank, Credo Bank, Ingra, Nex Group, IGH or Magma, we don't talk about it. Which is going to happen with a more risky investment, which is not what we're talking about. But we tell that story very nicely that those same financial institutions told. In the future, pensioners will live in prosperity for ten years on the basis of the second pillar. No, they won't live in prosperity. They will continue, even more and more, to dig through containers. On the other hand, certain rights are reduced when it comes to the poor and the accounts, covering the accounts for both gas and electricity, pensions will be even less and pensioners in the future cannot expect anything better through financial institutions will benefit only those with higher incomes and they will benefit and will become increasingly poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67293	Thank you. Srdjan Gjurkovic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67294	Thank you very much. My colleague, you've put some pension laws in the context of digging for trash cans to talk about some virtual numbers about situations where you invest in something, so it will or won't be. I think when the report of the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency is also taken into account, when analyses and average contributions are taken into account, the full way of functioning and regulation, and here it is clearly said that regulation with these laws and funds and those managing those pension funds is extremely sharp, penalties and sanctions are extremely large. They suggest killing that the security of investment and, in particular, a million and 700 thousand who invest in these individual savings are extremely important, important and that there is a certain trust and so far there has been no problem in not talking about 224 thousand those who are in voluntary pension funds. I therefore believe that independent political ideology should be taken into account, the way in which access to this pension column especially this, changes to laws that do not protect banks and financial institutions but literally provide space for citizens to go to their pensions to have security, have the opportunity and annuity, have the opportunity to receive contributions that are competent to ensure their pension quality and your approach, and therefore replicam is not adequate and is not necessary and I think that what is most important is that citizens deprive you of their trust on the one hand to banks with their savings and, on the other hand, by investing in voluntary funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67295	Thank you. My colleague Tušak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67296	Thank you. Well, I didn't use any virtual figures because the facts say that in 11 years capital gains are 26%. It's numbers. If you don't trust me, calculate how many total assets are and how many members of the fund have been paid so far. And when you talk about investment security, 70%, over 70%, about 73% of the investment is in government bonds. So the state is in charge of these same funds and pays a lot of fat interest, and on the other hand it lacks financial resources because it has to be in debt. So I don't see any reason that you would in any way support. And when you talk about it being funds, not banks, the founders of these funds are private banks, and it's not state funds and it's not state funds. I could accept your fact that there is some different control regardless of what there is an institution that controls it, but also a question of what can happen in total, so I simply don't see any reason for this mandatory fund to exist because it has not been accepted in any European developed country, so I don't see why it would be in Croatia, and those countries that have been in transition leave such a model. So if they leave, come out of times of crisis, come out of recession and economic problems, we're still just going deeper and deeper, it seems like they're crazy, and we're smart or something else entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67297	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HSU Club, Zeljko Schamper, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67298	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. Today, there are three pension system laws and two that regulate the mandatory and voluntary pension insurance system on the basis of individual capitalised savings under pension reform. Since the Croatian pension system is arranged as threefold, it is necessary to see what results it has achieved, in particular, in the first pillar, that is, the system of generation solidarity. Under the pension reform of 1 January 1999. The new Pension Insurance Act, which regulates compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity, is in force. The main motives for making a new law were demographic problems, but also the unsustainability of the current Pension and Disability Insurance Act. After 15 years of application of this law, due to many restrictive and unfair provisions, especially as regards the problem of current value pension, the average pension today, 663 thousand new pensioners is only 37% of the average salary. Compared to the old pensioners, it's 19% less than the annual savings of the state budget of 3.5 billion kuna or slightly more than 1% of gross social product. These figures are good for the state budget, but bad for the pensioners and must not be forgotten and remain in the shadow of these discussions these two Laws on individual and capitalised savings. The current Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, as proposed by the Proposer, is divided into two specific laws that should allow for further development and improvement of this type of savings in order to improve the social security of future pensioners. In addition to this separation of laws, new conditions are prescribed in the risk management system given the new investment opportunities in the investment strategy, which are... b. The law prescribes a way of managing the assets of pension funds with the intention of reducing the risk of falling values by dispersing investment, according to that people's "do not put all eggs in one basket". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is prescribed to consist of the assets of the Peace Fund as well as the restrictions in respect of the type of assets invested by pension funds, categories a, b and c and in which the property is prohibited from investing in the savings of pension fund members. The criteria for the selection of funds will depend on the time or number of years to meet the conditions for retirement, so the assets of younger members will be invested in more risky financial instruments that bear a higher contribution, while members who are missing 5 years of retirement will be in a fund c with conservative investment of their assets. After 12 years of implementation of this savings system especially now at the moment of financial problems of the budget and state, we need to see all the shortcomings and look at the perspectives of this system. The first thing that was wrong in the second pillar was the intrusion of volunteers who in 2002 had between 40 and 50 years of life and put a difficult decision before them whether to join or not. It was a bitter experience for those who joined, but after 6, 7 or 10 years of savings they had to retire. Their damage was from 500 to 1200 kuna compared to the one that remained in the first pillar. A membership with below average salary and a smaller number of years of savings was their big mistake, and the first such solutions also brought great damage and brought mistrust to the system of individual capitalised savings. The error was only corrected in 2011 immediately before the parliamentary elections when members of the group received the right to return with their savings to the first pillar, but unfortunately around 1200 retired women were not retroactively compensated. The second big mistake was that the members of the second pillar were left out of the right to supplement under the Law on Supplements from 4% to 27%, although by 2002 they regularly paid 20% of the contributions in the first pillar, and after enrolment in 2002 15% as a third and what was not good was the investment of the assets of pension fund members because they did not meet the basic meaning of the second pillar, which is investment and the promotion of the economy. Something similar happened in the '90s to us pensioners when workers bought shares of their own factories that they had built for years, and the money went not into development but into state spending. According to official data on all four funds, there are around 58 billion kunas, of which about 70% are placed in government bonds. It involved too many institutions, it could also do HZMO without the cost of compensation, high wages and stimulation. All of this pension reform and the cost of transition was carried out on the burden of the state budget, and the most damage is to the retired generation of new pensioners who were retired after 1 January 1999. This generation of pensioners is today 36 to 37% of the average salary whose pension is insufficient for normal life. At the same time, we often hear that future pensions will be over 60% to 70%. It would be great if one day it did, but apparently a generation has forgotten, which has mostly built our beautiful and today, with such low pensions, still retains its unemployed children and grandchildren. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please listen to one forecast from one of our economists about the fate of future pensions that says: "The peace from the first pillar of generation solidarity will be even more modest and will serve at best to combat poverty while the goal of retirement from the second and third pillars should be to achieve incomes that would be suitable for a decent life in the third age. As a result, there is a need to increase the contribution to compulsory pension insurance and continue to stimulate payment into voluntary pension funds." That's what he said and stayed alive. For the future of the second pillar, some questions should be asked, above all, what is the future of the second pillar from the perspective of user social security? The World Bank model is very insecure because it depends on the situation on financial markets, internationally linked and poor movements at one end of the world affect movements on the other end of the world. Thus, the 2008 crisis also negatively affected the assets of pension funds in the Republic of Croatia, which is known as the casino economy. Secondly, all the analyses so far show that the combined pension from the first and second pillars is paid only to those who receive above average wage. So far, only two ex-managers have remained as second pillar users. Those who receive the average wage and less than that cannot count on better pensions that they would only receive from the first pillar. What are the government's obligations to support the second pillar? For the Republic of Croatia and its state budget, there was an obligation to finance the transition cost and to allocate about 5 billion kuna, and even more so as to burden the state budget, especially now in the zone so-called "the euro area". Excessive deficit. The state doesn't have those funds, it has to borrow dearly and pay high interest. From that point of view, the future of the second pillar is questionable. Return to the first pillar would create a commitment by the State to pay off future pensions from a public pension system in which commitments are gradually and tolerable. What are the national obligations relating to the social protection of pensioners from the second pillar? The State that introduced this mandatory pension insurance model will have its future obligations to control pension funds and their investments in order to maintain their value, control the calculation of pension payments, takeover of pension payments in the event of the financial failure of the insurance bearer, social assistance and material protection of the users of these incomes, which will not be sufficient for a decent life. In conclusion, as far as the benefits of the second pillar can be seen, at least so far they have only had its contractors, pension societies that manage pension funds and their owners. Croatia may have made a mistake when it accepted and agreed to introduce the second pillar by supporting its funding by issuing state bonds, which has already created a high public debt in 12 years that will only increase and last for at least the next 30 years. The issue of membership and sustainability of the second pillar only makes sense if members can obtain greater pensions from the combined system than pensions from the first pillar only. The members of the second pillar should be informed in the future about the amount of their pensions in view of the amount of their salary and the number of years of investment so that the calculator can decide on their own membership as decided by the volunteer group for 40 to 50 years. As a result, the second pillar of the pension system should be voluntary and certainly not at the expense of the current members who are constantly being told it is your private savings, it is your future pension or no one can take it from you. In view of all the options of the excessive deficit solution in which these days the second pillar is the most involved in HSU, we think that in 2014 the second pillar should be thoroughly reviewed and the members of what pensions they can expect with an emphasis on the height of their salary and the number of years of savings so that when they retire, there will be no great disappointment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67299	Thank you, too. Replica Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67300	Dear counterpart Schemper Croatian Labourists think that they should not be questioned but that the second pillar should be abolished. You yourself said there was a mistake in 2002 when the coalition was also called the so-called coalition. The left coalition that fell for the World Bank stunt is known to be fighting for Croatia's poverty, which is why it imposed a second pillar. Watch out, there's a huge number of billions of kuna missing for pensions. And then what we're doing, we're reducing the mandatory pension fund, the paying power of it, and we're giving in private hands money and then we borrow from it and we're making a debt that, the one we owe to the state that paid in private pockets to someone who makes good money. And we cheated especially on those who were very few years old, I was at that age when I was able to identify myself, I didn't believe, of course, that I didn't trust the World Bank and that government, so I didn't fall under that propaganda, I took another pension fund, but I was only in mandatory retirement. It's very clear, it doesn't need to be drawn, generation solidarity is almost gone, it's not going to have to pay for pensions. So if there's no more pensions to be paid out of, and now there's nothing to be paid out of, and we're persistently insisting on it, banging our heads through the wall, and that's a reinforced concrete and we say, no, no, but one day, we're going to one day these people who are now receiving the church, who can't put an end to the end, you yourself said that 37% of the average salary is the pensions of new pensioners and how to comfort them now. So we're going to figure out another 15 years if the pension second column pays or doesn't pay off.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67301	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Shemper, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67302	Well, dear colleague, I'm really worried, and in my debate, I've made it quite clear, what about this generation, I call it a forgotten generation. Because we've been suffering the consequences of what's been since '93. until '98. the old pensioners were damaged and immediately with the damage the current value of the pension was calculated and that was such a mistake where it was not corrected with those amounts which old pensioners received their compensation. So today we are talking about the future of II. But we forget this generation, and we all know it's a difficult time, but 19% difference, that's between old and new pensioners 470 kunas difference. You're saying that I should end it completely, but there are probably about 25% of the employees who might think, as one colleague told me, I have 350 thousand savings and I certainly think of taking this opportunity from the second pillar. However, these do not have much, about 60 to 70% of people have an average pension below the average salary. And so all those who have below the average Croatian salary can hardly be satisfied with their future pension. And that's why I stressed that we should review II. A pillar that should be voluntary and still be entered by those who feel that it will be favorable for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67303	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB Club Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67304	Thank you very much, deputy president, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It's already late, but we've had our first reading and surely we've said a lot, some things have been corrected, but clearly that the material, it can always be done. Because looking at and what's happening on the market, looking at and assessing the risks sure it's important to put a lot into the legal framework. And surely that time before us will be certainly quite dynamic. Because seeing that, just through the final draft law on mandatory and peacekeeping funds, the final draft law on voluntary pension funds and the final draft law on pension and insurance companies is managed by our future, managed by, I would say, future social responsibility but also by savings. Two things are very important here, but it is also important in what circumstances Croatia is in. When we look at the real estate market, when we look at the downturn of the number of employees but actually bring in the number 1:1 number of persons employed and those retired, it will certainly be harder to pay off pensions. But looking at the Croatian credit rating that falls from month to month, looking at the excessive deficits and limits that we get and which we must round in the next two years are certain that there will be a lot of challenges for Croatia. But it is also clear that controlling the excessive deficit will have a significant impact on the interest rates that the Republic of Croatia will pay on loans but also on bonds. These are the questions that have been put before us. Issues related to pension societies, pension funds that certainly invest a lot in the capital market in the Republic of Croatia but also invest in government bonds. And then we come up with one question that our fellow citizens trust. Do they trust foreign banks and insurance companies and pension funds in their predominantly owned or really trust the state? I'm glad the minister initially removed the possibility immediately when we talk about II. the pension pillar to nationalise the second pension pillar as it was done in Hungary or Poland. But also in Slovakia, giving is now down from 9% to 4%, they went to a more reasonable, not radical method because they have just estimated that their citizens, also from Slovakia, believe the same thing to banks and provide companies and assess the risk of what they create for some future time. But we also know that at this point, the Republic of Croatia is paying just about a good part of the pensions, not from what is paid from our salaries but from the loan, from the bonds that are being placed. Therefore, it is very important that these pillars work well, that the mandatory but also the second pillar also has a certain regulator to control how they risk. Also, looking at this legal framework that we have in Article 146 of the Assessment and the Auditor, it is a little too long in Article 146, seven years that one auditor can oversee society for seven years. In the HDSSB, we estimate that this deadline should be reduced as well as the change of auditors who will control the business of the company in Article 146, we believe that it should be limited to a smaller number of years because they are precisely controlling everything that happens in society itself and whether the company is acting on all the parameters defined in this law, whether it directs the property of society in one real way that is just limited by this law. We also know that HANFA controls societies, but we know that the number of people are insufficient to control each segment and show that fair value, and we believe that in these societies, the property needs to be shown at fair value. Also, I think it's a speculative article 8, the company's core capital is 40 million kuna, but it's one thing for us, it's that that capital can't be financed from a credit arrangement. It's hard to check the source of the funds that comes in to secure the underlying capital, so I believe that exactly the good part of these foreign companies is from credit arrangements initially financed their core capital and I believe that the source of someone's core capital is not being questioned. It's important to us that this capital exists. Whether or not the source will be a credit arrangement, I believe that you have an surplus in Article 8. Risk management and risk dispersion are difficult to assess especially when we look at Croatian bonds and the assessment of yields as well as the risks that follow from this, but I think you have developed this risk management and control of society itself well, but I believe it will be from Article 197, which is the supervision of the society strategy and the control of the society strategy and the adherence to the social strategy, it will be very difficult to control and I think that you may have exaggerated in this Article 197, although strategies must be controlled for the society itself. I also think you did one good thing in Article 87. When we talk about the cost of pension funds, and in particular Article 56, the policy of rewarding the management of society, because we were all witnesses in America and a lot of looking at individual funds that were playing with other people's money, paying significant premiums and rewards, and they actually invested in real estate. The real estate market in America was then witnessed that these rewards were not real, as well as the property of society. Therefore, I think these restrictions are important, and I think that especially at a time when Croatia is being paid daily and cutting wages, that we are not talking about the number of employees in certain societies, that we should be taking special care of the remuneration policy in society because in these managements we have most of the young people who manage other people's money, I would say also often service the business banks of the queen in their portfolio and service their portfolio. Therefore, this risk management is important, but also a policy of rewarding in society. Therefore, we in the HDSSB welcome the article 56 which is certainly important in order not to pay large premiums, and we were all witnessing that this was happening. But what will be difficult to assess, this is exactly the fair value of the assets because looking at the Croatian capital market that is falling, so when we talk about the most valuable shares that are HT, INA and others, and that are the very ones that make up most of the Croatian capital markets, then it is difficult to find something exactly where there could be greater contributions. Therefore, even in the coming years, it is certain that these funds will be difficult to obtain so much funds and accumulate so much funds. A few years ago, a colleague spoke of the offerings of the past year. It's a good thing that the system to A, B and C model has been distinguished when we talk about the one who has more than 10 years of age and transition, to a pension that is 5 years old or who is close and is also a limited investment in the market or investment in assets, in that model A to 30%, model B to 50, or in model C, I even think it's too much 70% investment in assets. There may be another need to consider whether this is an overinvestment, as counterpart Dalic also spoke earlier about the operationality of the assets, the operation, because the liquidity of the companies is important and timely payment of the liabilities. Such societies can only fail to pay off commitments once and then enter into a problem from which there is no exit as well as a business bank, and we have all witnessed what has happened in the banking sector in the past 10 years or 15 years. I also want to look back on these doubts about the second pension column and the takeover of the funds that have just been paid to that second pension column. Our Constitution and Article 3 discusses the incompetence of private ownership and this is also the private property of all those who have paid so far. I'm not saying that you can't make a correction to legal regulation, the one since 1.1.2002, and change the legislation, not to pay 5%, but to change that ratio. All of this can be done by you ministers and this government and this majority in the Parliament. But it is always good to leave it to our fellow citizens to choose and decide whether their 5% will be paid into another pension column or in some way others will decide on their fate, their future. Generation solidarity is important, but I think it is also important to pay attention to the monetization of Croatian roads and provide the possibility that these funds are involved, because we believe in the HDSSB that this is a real source, a real source for the next time that it is very much bringing and on which liquid assets and funds can be available that can certainly contribute to a better standard for our pensioners in the coming years. Therefore, by looking at these legal proposals, we can say that there are both good things and bad things. I'm sure we don't just want to criticize the HDSSB. We want to participate constructively in the debates and give suggestions, as well as in every article, because we just see that this is the management of our future and the future of our fellow citizens. But looking at the ratio that I was talking about at the beginning that the number of pensioners and the number of employees 1:1 then certainly to encourage employment, work on economic zones, work on attracting European funds and all that can multiply exactly employment is precisely the key to success for next year, next decade, and not that the state is directing the takeover of the second pillar. I think it's a good decision at this point, not to take a second pension stake, but to leave it to our fellow citizens as they decide in the election by deciding on a second pension stake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67305	Thank you, too. Replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67306	Dear Mr. Bubalo, we need one trap set by you and many others set up for Croatian citizens. We're one of us who advocates the removal of the second pillar. It's not nationalization, it's not taking, it's not stealing. It was done by some other authorities. Mr. Shemper was saying what was taken from the pensioners. So it's the property of citizens who were paying, no one can touch it. If it is abolished, then it becomes a voluntary savings and you do with your savings whatever you want. There's a mandatory and voluntary pension fund and then your savings. So no one touches 50 or something billion kunas, and you say all the time that someone's gonna nationalize it. They won't nationalize it, they can't nationalize it because it would be an international scandal to do it. But it can be lifted and returned to 20% because it's necessary. This is closing your eyes to reality. You say cut, increase, etc. You don't have to. And 20% is small, too little to pay for pensions. Or cancel any pensions at all, so we don't have to. Let him do whatever he wants, so it'll all be voluntary. But this is it. Therefore, when Labourists advocate to abolish the second pillar, it does not mean that they are touching other people's money because it is their money, it is, not touching other people's money but we are proposing a model that means you have mandatory and voluntary. And you with your money, with this 50 and something billion you do whatever you want. So let's not distort the thesis, the words, scare people with nationalization. Well, I didn't think Linic was going to go to Brussels now and say we're going to take it from the pensioners, so here's what we've done with the debts. This is how it turns out when you do, that Linic will take something from someone. Well, he can't take it except with a sock on his head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67307	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67308	Thank you very much, colleague Vuksic. Orban didn't go with a sock on his head, so he nationalized those funds, and so things can come to people's minds. Well, looking at Croatia where it is, I wouldn't be surprised to see such a move and withdraw next year. So we separate two things in HDSSB. It's the present part and the view of the future. A view of the future, Prime Minister Milanovic or Minister Mrsic may suggest that the view of the future is not 5% but 2%, to be paid into the second or to be zero. But the view of the future and Minister Linic and Milanovic and anyone in this government can't be that what has been capitalized so far says tomorrow we take it. This is Article 3. A constitution that defines that it cannot be taken. Therefore, we in the HDSSB not only advocate that it cannot be taken, but also when we talk about the future, then we say let our fellow citizens decide whether those 5% will remain in those hateful foreign banks, providing societies or give their trust to the state and this pension system that we currently have. But we certainly know in HDSSB that pensions have to pay off, but we also know that there are a lot of items in the budget that we have and when there have been budgets saying where the deficit can be reduced, and these certainly are not pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67309	Thank you. Silvano Hrelja, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67310	In your debate, you said something about private property or private property and to conclude that it is a great happiness if you have a lot of, a lot of money in that private property, and a little bit of luck if you have little, if you have saved a little money in that private property. But why do we worry about it so much today, about three percent, about freezing. The process today lives in Croatia, it happens. According to existing legislation, people give up their property on their own initiative and commit themselves because of small savings, and the great damages in the accounting of personal pensions give up their personal property and accept a simple pension, so pension from the first pillar or generation solidarity on a fully voluntary basis. It's not something to come up with, it's happening today. They give up their private property because the employer either did not pay their wages or did not pay regular contributions, etc., and they take what is more favourable to them, a pension from the first pillar of generation solidarity that we consider justifiable and a contribution to the social security of our citizens. For now, there are only two people I know that are two managers who paid their payments to the first pillar maximum, so it belongs to the second pillar and there is one man who came to me with an unwarranted second pillar because as a pilot he paid enough for a high pension from the first pillar, but he was taken some 300 thousand from the second pillar and he did not receive it, he should have received it at least in 60 or 65 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67311	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67312	First of all, I certainly wish our pensioners good health because a sick man only has one wish, and that is to be healthy. But looking at our pensioners who are really hard to live on, and I would agree with you, and I estimate that it will get harder because the prices are growing, the consumer basket is growing, and our pensions are kind of at the same level. But again I say, when we talk about the second pillar and the capitalised savings, we are in the HDSSB always to let citizens decide whether they want to or not. So that's what's primary after all. I hope we won't have this topic in the Croatian Parliament soon, and I'm glad the minister confirms it. Therefore, when the time comes to discuss this, then we will give even more attention, and now we are just suggesting our opinion. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67313	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Silvano Hrelja, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67314	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to say something about the amendments that I signed and signed on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU and put into parliamentary procedure. With another clarification from his colleagues, he doesn't listen now, but it doesn't matter, one explanation you all know when faced with numbers, all the emotions are gone. So, these people when they retire and someone calculates that they will get 200 kuna pensions in the second pillar, and at the same time even with a better formula now that they belong and 27% to what they singled out only in the first pillar that they will lose 700 then all stories stop. A man chooses, when he's already right, which I think is good, for what's better. So it doesn't stay unsaid. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the HSU has three amendments to the procedural nature which are related to the latest article of each law saying that the law should enter into force on the first day following its publication in the National Journal. I don't think there's any need for that because all the time we haven't established such a level of urgency that you'd have to come in the next day after the publication in the National Journal and I think these laws deserve the fate of all the other laws, all the normal laws that take effect on the eighth day of the publication in the National Journal. It's a small part of the problem, a small part of the story. Most of the problem is amendments to the final proposal of the Pension Insurance Society Act. In fact, I asked for all possible information to be credible in my debate, and I also came across a phonogram from the government session where it was said that all these three laws and the proposal of the Pension Insurance Companies Act in the first reading debate had no more serious objections. I must draw attention to the fact that representatives of the Club of Representatives of HSU and in their first reading made serious comments regarding the proposal of the Pension Insurance Society Act on two intruders who entered this law. These two intruders are pensions and pensions. Namely, the pension rent is regulated by the Property Insurance Act and persons through life insurance programmes where the possibility of paying out the pension rent is also foreseen for the experience. And there's definitely everything clear, if it's paid by an employer then taxes are paid because it's considered gross income, if I pay my own life insurance, then it's for me free of every tax and there's no indication of pension income or other income because I'm saving for age. We're pushing that into the Pension Insurance Society Act here, and I think there's too few criteria that can define a pension rent. Namely, as far as pensions can be paid most here, for example. So let's tell one manager in the INA or the HEP? He can be paid two, three million kunas for how long? For five years, for seven years, for ten years. It can be worth it. What's his tax status? We don't know. And let's not expect that he can and must resolve the Income Tax Act, not necessarily. We should have pointed that out. In the second part, in part of the retirement programme as it is called here, although none of the others are a pension programme, you can hold me by the neck as much as you want, I will never admit that pension programmes are because they are not pension programmes because no kuna contributions are paid for these programmes. We know that pension programmes are exclusively related to the payment of the employer's contributions on a longer period of time over the years. So, the programme, as is called the collection of pensions here, is regulated by the special law that we have brought here in the Croatian Parliament in two readings, and has entered into force on 27 December 2013, and it is fully regulated in terms of the programme of retirement or lifelong severance, and it is all done in some way in difficult talks, negotiations, agreements, whatever you want with a restoring ministry, so we don't think there's any need here to define this as a special chapter in the Pension Insurance Companies Act unless there's a job for the only pension insurance company in Croatia and the only retirement insurance company in Croatia, even though it's unusual to say in this Assembly speaker is a Raiffeisen mode in which you can only calculate how much pension from the second pillar if you save 10, 15, 20 years, right? They also dealt with the programme as said here for the purchase of pensions, but they did so unauthorizedly, they made one-time payments to the employer where 30% of the exceptions could have been declared by the addition of pensions. So we have a special law, we have everything arranged in a special law, and I don't see any reason why this Pension Insurance Society Act is burdened with these two intruders and that these two intruders are called pension programs because they are not according to their origin. I can't be, if there's some severance that, and it's a lifetime of severance, which is contracted by a worker and an employer as compensation for early retirement, so we're talking life pay, then it can't be a pension program. If we have again on the other hand the product of long-term life insurance savings and I opt for a pension rent either for a certain period or again we can't talk about the pension programme because I repeat another kuna of pension payments, the payment of contributions didn't go through that institute, that is, what I called an intruder. Therefore, I, Mr. Minister, appeal to you and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to review these amendments once again, given that I am openly telling you, it is my duty to defend my views and I will not at all hesitate to go to the highest institution of the Republic of Croatia and in order to maintain the constitutional principle of legal certainty that one institute is resolved by one law, that such an institute in competition can be dealt with by ten such institutions with the same programme and do its own competition but we are not going to do the competition of the same institute between the two programmes. Finally, the purchase of a pension is treated as a company and what is another pension insurance company than a company and more than 150 articles are prescribed from the Company Act in these laws. What are we talking about? We're not out of the system. Here 150 articles that could be easily deleted and applied directly from the Company Act and nothing would be missing and nothing could fail. I therefore appeal to you to correct the mistake. I'm not saying this is about bad intentions, but I think this is inadmissible because it kind of derivates the constitutional principle of legal certainty and the transparency of the interpretation of the law. After all, I went to the Constitutional Court to consult on this, so you can understand. I didn't send anyone, but I went to consult, and it was passed on to me as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67315	Thank you, too. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67316	It's late, we're not going to pollemize, so the thing is we're treating payments in fashion, what should be demystified mode, so we're always counting on classic retirement positions, so when you pay out of the second pension column in fashion, everyone counts on how much pension we're going to be. However, we allow these amendments to the law to offer pension insurance companies a different way, so you can decide that you will enjoy that pension for ten years, so that you do not want to be followed for life, you will be able to decide to share it with your family, and then there will be one addition to your pension from the second pillar smaller. So the calculation of what we're going to look like is on whoever decides one day, and it's gonna be me who decides what I'm going to do with my assets coming from another pension system, so I'm going to decide what I want with those funds, which is how I want to enjoy my pension. The underlying capital is clear, it can't be a credit debt but it can only be a deposit, so a solid currency because then it turns out that we're paying off a loan from a company ourselves. That's what we're talking about about getting pension funds, this year it was 4.46% inflation, according to the data that I have 2.2 so the funds have earned above the cost of living, which means that one day my pension from that will be above the cost of living. I agree with those who are 40 to 50 and those who were in the benefits of a work experience should not have been in the second pension column at all, and we are doing it these days. We've already announced that we're going to go to a new system of benefits, and we're going to get these people out of the second pillar because they don't have anything to do in the second pillar, they just can't be long enough to capitalize the savings. And as far as pensions are concerned, it is unlikely that the finance minister will miss the opportunity to tax pensions, so I have no doubt that it will be incorporated into the second law, and it will be, we have already agreed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67317	Thank you, Minister. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67318	Final proposal of the Pension Funds Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 526. The debate on the text of the law is over. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 199 of the same Rules of Procedure, I am voting on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 83 votes in favour, 28 against the motion to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the proposing representative to explain the Republic of Croatia's amendments. Dear Minister Miranda Mrsic, Minister of Labour and Pension System. We're going to amendment number 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67319	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67320	The Honorable Ministers can only read the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67321	Okay. Thank you very much. In Article 21, paragraph 1 is incorrectly referred to in Article 20(6) of this Amending to an appropriate legal provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67322	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement on Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that, most of the votes of 83 votes in favour and 28 votes against, we have accepted Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which has become an integral part of the final draft of the law. Ministers of Amendment No. 2, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67323	In accordance with the provisions of the applicable Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, a member of a pension fund whose pension rights are governed by a special regulation governing the rights of the pension insurance of persons employed, police officers and authorised officials or whose pension is determined under that Regulation under more favourable conditions than the conditions laid down in the Pension Insurance Act. The total capitalised assets from the personal account of a member of the Peace Fund shall be transferred by the Central Insurance Register to the state budget at the time of his retirement by persons as if they were secured only in compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity under that special regulation. This provision therefore proposes the transfer of funds from the personal accounts of these pension fund members to the state budget immediately and not at the time of their retirement, but allows them to choose the remainder of the Peace Fund within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. However, if members of pension funds are not declared to remain in the Pension Fund, the Central Insurance Register will transfer to the State the total capitalised assets from their personal account, and the HZMO will, after obtaining the right to retire, determine pensions as if they were secured only in compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generational solidarity or according to specific regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67324	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker debates on behalf of the club. Here you go. Set up a pay phone for a respected representative on behalf of the club will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67325	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. A little more than three days ago we discussed this law in the Croatian Parliament and assuming that the government does not have much space to do what it will do, I am well-intentioned and in terms of the protection of this High House referred a very simple question to Minister Mrsic. I asked him, Mr. Minister, will the second pillar of retirement be touched? He said no to me. Why am I saying that? Because colleagues and colleagues if you look at the act by which we are working, which is our Rules of Procedure and if you look at its Article 174 paragraph 2 and 3. then you will understand that this amendment is very difficult to discuss, and later I will explain why. But what does our Rules of Procedure say? He says the assessment of the situation and the fundamental issues that need to be regulated by law and the consequences that this law will take place. We have not received this explanation in the light of this amendment. It also assesses the source of the necessary means to implement the law. Look, colleagues and colleagues here, this isn't about 10 thousand kunas, this isn't about a million kunas, this isn't about 100 million kunas, this is about right now, even though we don't have the right information for some stories about over 5 billion kunas. The second thing, we, with this amendment, are very much changing the meaning of the provision of the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds. We, a group of people, and counterpart Dalic, asked whether the people with the benefits of a work experience changed by this law were in a position to receive pensions from the second pillar of the pension, the minister replied. So given that and that answer, we are now in one position to eliminate one group of people from the second pillar of retirement and practically the second pillar of retirement only remains for those who are practically at the time of the law's entry into force, and these were all those who were under 40 years old, and all others volunteered to enter that second pillar of pension or become members of compulsory pension funds. And we deal with it with one amendment, without the possibility of parliamentary representatives giving their opinion, without the possibility of parliamentary representatives discussing it. Although Minister Mrsic knew on Tuesday that this would happen. Because simply by the structure of the budget and by the financial and fiscal capacity of Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs, the government could not go to anything else. So, the Croatian Parliament has been denied the debate. To discuss one very, very important thing. If the Croatian Parliament remained, then 80,000 people remained, even though in the light of this amendment it was necessary to state how many people are in the second pillar of the pension provision. It was also necessary to state in the light of this amendment the amount they entered into their private accounts in II. Retirement rate at 31.12 if it's impossible to do with 30. January, then we'd have one complete picture. And since that's not what we're practically offered to say for something that's in the fog, which we don't know. The second thing, did anyone ask, regardless of the legal provisions, that people, according to whom they have an underprivileged employment, receive pensions in accordance with the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act, and in principle they do not receive a direct pension from II. Retirement rate, at the time of retirement, of the funds they saved in II. The pillar in the pension practically comes into the Croatian budget, i.e. at the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. No one has asked them or asked them, but a very, very cunning provision has been proposed here. Not to declare those who are in favour and to read exactly so as not to say it wrong, but to say within 30 days "...from the entry into force of this Law, those who wish to remain in II are declared. Retirement rate.". And you basically eliminated anyone with this question, and people didn't know or know or have time to do it. So you basically eliminated them, you changed the law, you changed the basic meaning of II. The pension rate for one large group of people whose name is the Croatian state, because that is, to be understood these are employees who mostly receive their salaries from the state budget and the budget of units of local self-government through those decentralised funds. So we eliminated them with one and a half acts. We are aware that the government is in trouble as it is. However, colleagues and colleagues here have another danger in this amendment. And why this item 3 is particularly important here. Article 174? Because now look at me one time all the things that these people have done, saved over the past 11 years by decree we're transferring to the state budget. And so far it's been that the moment they get a pension, those funds will be transferred to the state budget. And what are we doing with this act? Not just one group of people get the right to be in II. We are making a decision to burden Croatia's budget in the long term. Because whoever's in II right now. The pension rate and the retirement pensions are based on the Pension Insurance Act for those who have the benefits of a work experience at the time he retires will lack the funds taken in II. Column... That's a fact. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now. In accordance with ESA 2010 and this is the rule by which Croatia must manage its budgetary accounting and accounting, such an event must be foreseen in the budget. Also in accordance with the Fiscal Responsibility Act that we discussed yesterday in the Croatian Parliament, it is also necessary, that article famous 3. I think that paragraph 7 that we talked about yesterday, also the legislator has to predict it all. Nothing was done. However, the minister explained very briefly, he said nothing, and the government will thus reach 5 billion or how many millions of kunas, so in the coming years the government will provide itself with 400 million kunas of original income. And the government thinks that's how it's gonna work out. However, colleagues and colleagues I ask you what will happen in 2016 when there is no more payment from II. Retirement rate saved by 2014? Because it is foreseen that what has been saved by 2014 will be paid in 2014 and 2015. So the budget is in trouble again. The budget will lack 2 billion kunas. So this is a one-time solution, a solution that offers nothing good and a solution unfortunately only paints how public finances are run and how laws are passed in the Croatian Parliament. Also, colleagues and colleagues, according to our Rules of Procedure, in Article 200, is said to be subject to an amendment of such a nature to significantly amend, or to amend or withdraw significantly from the final draft of the Law, the Parliament may decide to postpone the debate in order to give MPs sufficient time to prepare before deciding. We are not even offered this, even though other colleagues from the opposition clubs would likely want to discuss this. And, however, it would be very good to discuss this to warn everyone about these fiscal traps that this provision of the law, which the minister has so freely explained, I mean read, offers. Because I repeat to you in 2016, there won't be that 2 billion and 800, and in all those years when people are going to retire to the benefits of work, there will be no money to be paid from the second pillar of retirement. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Democratic Community can therefore not support this amendment either, can not support this bill and I will be able to speak more about everything when the budget rebalancing is proposed. However, so much for how consistent someone is, as far as they're concerned. Because I repeat two direct questions were raised on behalf of the HDZ Club by the minister. The minister answered these two questions in diametrically contrary to this amendment he was explaining today. I don't know what happened from Tuesday night to Thursday night, because that amendment we got yesterday night. So we can't talk about Friday. What changed in 48 hours? In addition to clouding the eyes of the Croatian public, clouding the eyes of parliamentarians and, unfortunately, forcing the ruling majority in this House to work past the Rules of Procedures who voted on their own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67326	Thank you, too. There are no more reports for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment number two. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that amendment number two. The governments of the Republic of Croatia accepted most of the votes. 83 votes in favour, 26 votes against and one abstention. And it becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 3. Honored Minister, explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67327	Thank you very much. An error of reference to the law shall be corrected instead of an appropriate provision of this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67328	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Amendment number three? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I am giving to declare amendments number three to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most 84 votes in favour and 26 votes against the accepted amendment number three of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and thus became an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number four, Honored Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67329	It is necessary to delete paragraph 3 in Article 240 which defines the basis for calculating the guarantee deposit for 2013 since the proposed law did not enter into force in 2013. In accordance with Article 112 of the final draft law, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency will define the basis set out in paragraph 1 of that Article for 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67330	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Amendment number four. I'm closing the debate. Please make a statement. Who's for amendment number four of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 84 votes in favour and 26 votes against, have adopted amendment number four of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It became an integral part of the final bill. Dear Ministers, we are going to the amendments to the Legislative Committee. The first amendment to Article 3 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67331	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67332	Thank you very much. The second amendment to Article 246
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67333	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67334	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to the amendment of the respected representative Srdjana Gjurkovic. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67335	Amendment number one, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment. The fact that Article 32(2) of the final draft law is unnecessary is because the same substance is already regulated in paragraph 1. is not correct. Paragraph 2 prohibits a member of a pension society’s administration or procurator from being a member of a management, procuring or member of a Supervisory Board in a financial institution. The above paragraph regulates similar but different matter and does not apply to membership in the Supervisory Board at all. As a result of the more high quality and corporate management and the avoidance of conflicts of interest and the illicit and harmful influences of one member of a financial group on the other, in particular the Mandatory Pension Funds Management Society, more than one financial institution should be limited.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67336	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67337	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67338	Thank you very much. Amendment number two of the same representative, the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67339	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The prohibition to receive compensation in the Supervisory Board for the relevant persons of the pension society is necessary in order to prevent conflicts of interest, since the same persons investing the money of the fund members in the shares of the companies must lead exclusively to the interests of the fund members and in no way the possibility of obtaining a fee in the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67340	Amendment holder, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67341	I am withdrawing the amendment, although I believe that anyone who answers on the Supervisory Board has the right to compensation of either that 100 kuna, 2000 or 5000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67342	Thank you very much for your retreat. Amendment number three of the same MPs, the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67343	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, the proposed amendment would allow the assets of pension funds to be invested in unlisted stock companies or limited liability companies up to 2% of the fund's assets, and the condition of investment in such assets would be determined by the Agency by a special regulation. In some countries, pension funds can invest up to 5% of the assets in unlisted companies while in Norway, Sweden and Finland pension funds can invest in unlisted companies up to 10%. It is necessary that pension funds invest and less unlisted companies with the aim of developing smaller medium-sized business entities. The government does not accept this amendment because in the Republic of Croatia, a very large number of stakeholders are included in the regulated market. The existence of inclusion conditions for the investment of pension funds is motivated by inclusion in the regulated market, which is very encouraging for the development of the capital market and promotion of transparent business. Unlisted shares and limited-response companies may be indirectly invested through shares or shares of alternative investment funds. In the Republic of Croatia there is also no investment of sufficient size which could not be placed on a regulated market, which would justify the introduction of such a provision and could therefore serve to invest in non-transparent and non-prudential companies abroad instead of investing in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67344	Thank you very much. A statement by respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67345	I withdraw the amendment because the law provides with this new proposal the possibility to invest more in stock companies by pension companies, which is crucial for the development of the economy that the capital of domestic workers investing in pension funds is returned to the best and best quality through the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67346	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, we are now going to the amendment of the Club of Representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67347	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67348	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Thank you very much, no more amendments. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 82 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 1 abstention was passed by the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67497	We continue with - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of Contracts between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on Social Insurance, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 596. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You've received reports. The Minister is with us, too. Here you go, Minister, intro.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67498	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Very, very short. Therefore, interstate social security relations between the Republic of Montenegro and the Republic of Montenegro are currently governed by a valid contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in social security, which has been in force since 1 May 2003. After gaining independence, Montenegro proposed the conclusion of a new contract. Negotiations started in late 2011, and we signed a contract on 24 July 2013 in Montenegro. The application of this Treaty will have an impact on the quality and proper social security of citizens, i.e. on the insurance of both countries that have achieved a period of security for both of them during their working days, and will raise the quality of cooperation between the two countries. The contract regulates areas of pension and disability insurance rights in respect of which the collection of periods of insurance completed in both countries, health insurance and health care, unemployment rights, family allowances for Croatian workers who live and work in Montenegro, as well as Montenegrin workers employed in the Republic of Croatia, where the collection of the period of insurance is also arranged in the event of the need to meet the conditions for the acquisition of rights. At the time of the law, by confirming the contract, the contract is not yet in force, and in order to be able to enter into force, it is necessary to confirm it by the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67499	Thank you, too. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Jasen Mesic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67500	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. So, as regards the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Montenegro on Social Insurance, in general, in addition to what Mr. Minister said in the introductory word, we can say that it is actually more or less a type contract, as it is very often signed between the Republic of Croatia and certain countries on social security. In principle, it is certainly good because it gives additional security in principle of reciprocity, whether for workers from the Republic of Montenegro, or in Montenegro who work there or live there or also for workers from Montenegro to the Republic of Croatia. This explanation shows that the minister was in Podgorica in July 2013 when the contract between the Republic of Montenegro and the Republic of Montenegro was signed. It is estimated here that there will be no additional funds necessary for the implementation of this law, we hope that is correct. However, it is quite certain that it might be better, given that this was signed in July that we had discussed it before and this is one of those cases when it is recommended that the adoption of the law really goes in an emergency procedure because there is no need to go really into two readings in order to see this possibility for both workers in Montenegro and for workers, the citizens of Montenegro in the Republic of Croatia can apply as soon as possible. In that sense, unlike these other laws that we had the opportunity to discuss today, the HDZ Club will support this bill, namely the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the contract between the Republic of Montenegro and Montenegro on social security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67501	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HSU club, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67502	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. My motivation to report for this item of the agenda is not that I excessively sought hair in the egg in this contract, i.e. in the Law confirming the contract between the Republic of Montenegro on social security with the final draft of the law, but rather the practice I am facing, so I appreciate that regardless of late time it would be useful for a few MPs, to enter the phonogram, to enter into the minutes of the Croatian Parliament something to say. I have discovered that with our neighbours, social insurance contracts do not give equal rights to Croatian citizens, especially when a proportionate part of the pension is applied. Let's say our citizens who are receiving pensions from the Republic of Serbia are more deprived than those citizens who are receiving their pension from BiH, not to say how cut off all our citizens who receive only pensions from BiH or have already been a relatively long time ago, so those who have become pensioners after the application of the social insurance contract, so after 2002, they are practically victims. I've talked about this many times, the victims of their pension systems. If their pension systems say they'll pay off their pensioners' value in bonuses, that's what our pensioners never get. For example. it is often from Republika Srpska such a case and our pensioners have no compensation whatsoever. Furthermore, in these situations, there are embarrassingly low parts or overall pensions from BiH because we do not have that other safeguard mechanism that we have some minimum pensions for the pensioner regardless of where he made the contribution. So I appeal to you, Mr. Minister, and to the Croatian Government to start opening up a little bit and to do social agreements reviewing because it is not possible for someone who was equal in 1998 when there was no social insurance agreement due to the application of this contract to Bosnia to have one right, so it does not lose its acquired pension level, and in the application of the social agreement with Serbia he is significantly 500, 700 kuna has a lower pension because his exchange from Serbia is significantly lower and nothing obliges the Croatian state to fill it in. And another detail, a very short time ago, at a celebration in one of our organizations of HSU, a lady came to me and said well when you're going to sign a social agreement with the United States. What's wrong with you, ma'am? He says no, no, I know I have to pay taxes either in America or in Croatia, it's normal for me. But look, I have 7 years of internship in the Republic of Croatia without a social agreement to me that 7 years of internship doesn't mean anything, so I just can't get any swearing by that 7-year internship, and if a social agreement were signed then I could get at least 7 times the lowest of about 350 kuna. But much more important than that, then I'm a Croatian pensioner and then I don't have to pay $1200 in health contributions. So the interest of our citizens who commit to living and after they retire, I don't know from the United States or Canada to make social agreements with the United States, and so some big countries are big. I know it is a tiny bug for them, although it is not a small number of US citizens who are declared from Croatia. I've read as much as 400,000 recently. For them, however, it is a minor problem. I would also ask that our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because I know that once even an initiative was launched to restore that initiative, and for the benefit of our citizens, we sign a social agreement. And if we can't, then let's sit down with the headmaster of HZMO at least to admit to them that the value of the internship that they don't have to pay that kind of health contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67503	Thank you, too. Here's the minister's answer right away. No more reports. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. For today, we're finishing our work, thanking the Minister for his cooperation. Tomorrow we will continue to work with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 571. Have a good night. Session adjourned at 20.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-28-0.u67504	Final proposal of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on social security, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 596. The debate on the final text of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I'd like the result of the vote. I find that it is unanimous with 104 votes for the passed Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on Social Security in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Dear fellow MPs, distinguished colleagues continue with the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. I can see my hand in the air of a respected representative, please.
