ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92944	Your Honor, Mr. President, I followed your lead. I'm not sure I understood it very well, but I'm sure something you suggested comes out of our Rules of Procedure. Given the particular importance of the topic on which clubs agreed on the text of the Declaration, and since you have now made the proposal that we have heard for the first time without any previous or previous agreements between clubs, I am asking for a 10-minute break so that the HDZ Club is manifested about your proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92945	Dear colleague, if it takes a break to agree on the versions that I made, we'll take a break of 10 minutes. That's what he said I'd make sense. If you stay with your people, we'll stick to the Rules of Procedure. We'll discuss it in accordance with the agreement of all clubs after we've done the two agendas we announced today. I suggest that if you insist on a 10 minute break so that the representatives of the clubs agree on how to adopt the Declaration because it is necessary to adopt it today. Thank you very much. I suggest we proceed at 9.45. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] No one asked. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who asked, tell me, and I'll give it to you, just tell me who was looking for a fellow Shucker? Who, when? ... Well, yeah, but there's no deal. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No one's answering.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92947	No, no. May I have your word, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92948	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92949	My colleague, Mlakar, asked for a 10-minute break eight minutes ago, given the new situation that we can agree on how we're going to set up on your proposal. And therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure, you are obliged to give him on behalf of the club five minutes to state our position.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92950	A fellow Shuker, ahead of the Croatian public, was given a break to try to arrange for club representatives to work on the declaration. If it's a break, then we'll give it a break, but on a new request, so everyone who wants a break should check in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92951	Dear Mr. President, I repeat the request for a break of 10 minutes after which I will speak for the club on behalf of our position as I told you in my first request for a break on the basis of the proposals you made at the beginning of this session. If you don't understand me correctly, for the first time, I'm repeating the request for a break that gives us the right, perhaps to concentrate, which gives us the right to speak five minutes after the final break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92952	Thank you very much, I heard. You'll get a break, thank you very much. So Davorin Mlakar HDZ, Jadranka Kosor, Petar Baranovic, Dragutin Lesar, Branko Vuksic, Hodzic. ... Dear MPs and MPs Mlakar, Kosor, Škare-Ozbolt, Dragutin Lesar, Vukšić Branko, Nedzad Hodzic, Josip Salapić, Mile Horvat, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović and Cain. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do you need a break to make a deal or can you start the exposure immediately? Would you like to start the show on behalf of the club immediately? No, I don't. Yes or no break? Okay. I'm setting the station now at 9.55. Thank you very much. It's 9:00.48. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:55 A.M.]] I'd like representatives of the clubs, first of all HDZ and respected representative Davorin Mlakar. Here's your colleague, Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92954	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It's just a matter of fact. On the basis of Article 234 of our Rules of Procedure, the Bureau of Parliament and the only Bureau of Parliament may decide on a different time of discussion than otherwise prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament you are the first among the equals, but you are only the first among the equals and you cannot take the right to decide on behalf of the Presidency of the Parliament. The Bureau of Parliament has made no decision on how to discuss the item on the agenda of the Declaration on the case of release to the provisional freedom of Vojislav Seselj. The HDZ Club participated with other clubs and I would say very constructively in making the text of the declaration. We agreed to the declaration yesterday morning or sometime at noon, her final text. Since then, we have waited and expected to agree on how this declaration will be discussed before the Croatian Parliament. Today you come with proposals that go with the goal of not having a debate on this important issue for the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, we are in a hurry because we know that on the agenda of the European Parliament there will be a similar declaration. The European Parliament will also be able to hold a debate on this declaration and you are preventing it in the Croatian Parliament. You have business opportunities to put on the agenda immediately and discuss the text of the declaration and that is what HDZ has asked from the beginning. Instead of these tricks from fixing a break to how our proposal will be discussed, let us give the text of the declaration agreed by most clubs and open a debate on this declaration before the Croatian Parliament, because the Croatian public has the right and chose us to hear what the political options think about concrete things. Instead, you threaten to take the debate either into the evening or at a time when the Croatian public will not have a chance to be familiar with the text, political views and opinions of the political options in the Republic of Croatia on this particular matter. The HDZ proposed that a debate on this declaration be opened immediately today after the entry into the agenda. You do, I have to admit from us the reasons you don't want to accept. You want to hide the debate on the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia which is best obvious in this declaration. If Croatia had a quality foreign policy that went to protect Croatian national interests, we would not have these declarations, it would be unnecessary. But precisely because the executive power, the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia were unable to respond properly to cases that occurred or this particular case with the UN tribunal, you are now preventing parliament from pleading on that foreign policy. We therefore propose what we have proposed from the beginning, that after the entry into the agenda of this declaration, you open a debate on the text of the declaration and give an opportunity to all clubs and all representatives to give their opinion on it. If this is unacceptable to you because you want to hide this disastrous foreign policy from the Croatian government in front of the Croatian public, then we suggest that you open the time to the clubs to present their opinion on this declaration in time as provided for in the Rules of Procedure and to reach a conclusion that we oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to come in 7 days with a report on the implementation of foreign policy and to open the debate in the Croatian Parliament. That's what we're proposing, that's what we're going to insist on, and we don't know what you need to do to get past the text of a declaration that speaks about the political attitudes of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92955	Thank you, too. I'll answer eventually. Let's get this straight. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92956	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. We started great about the text of the declaration, we got off to a great start, I was really more than happy and I can say without any pathetic, proud of the way the working group, so where they were representatives of many clubs in the Croatian Parliament, and worked in several circles, we were all really in a special way and dedicated to the work, a large part of the proposal, the constructive proposals of all who came to those meetings were incorporated into this declaration. So we got off to a great start, and that's why I'm inviting my colleagues and colleagues to be both reasonable and responsible because a great degree of tolerance was taking place on, or in the work of that task force, and it wouldn't be good for us to plant our own feet now and to kill what we did in the beginning. Mr. President, I suggest that we proceed with the debate, make it possible for the clubs to speak, that is, to agree to speak to the representatives of the clubs. If any of the MPs, I note that we have fully agreed to the declaration, if any of the MPs wish to discuss it, let that opportunity be granted. It would have been disastrously bad, it would have been a terrible message after all that we had done together for the first time in such a long time, if this declaration had been pushed somewhere late into the night, and that the public, all the public, had the impression that we had, here's a good job that we had done a great interparty bickering. Sometimes the state interests are indeed above each party and individual interest in this case because it is worth the declaration that we would bring at the end of the debate, we will argue in the finality of the declaration that we would vote on shortly before or after the debate in the European Parliament. That would be an extremely bad message, then we don't need a declaration. So, I call for another consultation between clubs, I call for reason, I call for dignity because this declaration is a really great document. He will remain for history, but for history he will remain a phonogram about the debate. Here, and before the very beginning of the discussion of the declaration and what can be said, but above all, let the declaration remain as an agreement, I repeat, most of the absolute majority of the clubs in the Croatian Parliament and let this be an opportunity to at least once show that Croatian interest is absolutely above all other interests, because as long as we, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, are shooting each other, while we are now starting to accuse each other, you know who is laughing at us most? The one we sat down for and agreed on a strong and powerful document that must be a message indeed.... A message in which everything that survived during the bloody aggression against Croatia, a message about what we did during the negotiations to enter the EU, a message to the International Criminal Court, the Prosecutor's Office, the UN which founded the International Criminal Court, but of course a message to the neighbouring country and all our neighbours that EU accession can only be assessed according to individual achievements. It was worth it for Croatia, it must be worth it for the Republic of Serbia as well. So, Mr. President, I suggest we leave before noon with the debate, start with the clubs. If there is a need for any more MPs to make a statement, so be it, but this debate deserves to be in television broadcast not because of us and our vanity, but because I believe it is given by most Croatian citizens and citizens, Croats and Croats very interested in hearing what we have to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92957	Thank you, too, dear colleague. There's a respected representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92958	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Our club is on the stand to talk about this topic of this harmonised declaration only the representatives of the club because if we agree on the text of the declaration then it would be quite enough for the representatives of the clubs to present the views of the clubs that motivated them and the whole point of view on the whole topic of the temporary release of Vojislav Seselj of the Hague indictee. When making the declaration, we showed a very high degree of unity, because there is a topic as we could see about which we must unite and have a unique attitude. If we had such a unique attitude and a high degree of consent on some other subjects, then it would be much better in this country. Unfortunately, we do not have the debate that we are having right now, but it certainly causes disgust on those who are watching this debate. So our club proposes that only representatives of clubs, the topic of foreign policy should be opened, absolutely should be discussed as we discuss all other topics. The President of the Republic here responded by letter to The Hague, announced that he was also speaking to the Security Council of our representative on the same subject, the foreign minister informed EU foreign ministers, she informed representatives of the European Commission. If that was enough, it wasn't enough it was a topic to discuss. And we, unfortunately, may have reacted too late to the temporary release, but we have brought this proposal to the declaration. Therefore, our club absolutely agrees with the idea and the proposal to discuss foreign policy but we are in favour of conditioning whether within 7 days, in 3 days rather than really respecting the parliamentary procedure. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92959	Thank you, too, dear colleague. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club, the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92960	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, I propose that the debate be opened immediately and now, in the name of the promoter, the initiator of the adoption of this declaration, Commissioner Kosor, read the text of the declaration. So, Mr. President, I'll repeat my proposal. So I propose, on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, that you open the debate now and immediately, that the initiator of the idea of adopting a declaration by colleagues Jadranka Kosor read the text of the declaration and that you open a debate after which representatives of club representatives will participate without replicas and after the conclusion of the debate given for adoption of the declaration. I believe that under these conditions alone, she even makes sense that we're discussing her today. I am afraid that this early morning, the opportunity of a unanimous message from the Croatian Parliament to those whose content and purpose of the text of the declaration was to be addressed, primarily to The Hague tribunal, their way of working and those who contributed that we must discuss this at all. The text of the content is in line with all those who participated in it, who participated in its preparation. I am speaking publicly to my colleagues at the HDZ Club withdraw your request for a special conclusion, you are rightly looking for a debate on the conduct of foreign policy, but for the purpose and purpose of this declaration do not condition the discussion and adoption of this declaration by opening a debate on foreign policy regarding the text of the declaration because it is not good. If you're going to ask through that debate on a regular basis, you're going to get the signatures of our club, but don't make it conditional on this right now. Any other behaviour of the Croatian Parliament will also offend the purpose and purpose of the declaration. And already now we have experienced the mockery of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we cannot agree on this in a normal way, especially the mockery of those who need this declaration. Try to imagine those who now listen to and in the EU parliament when they open that debate about how they will be impressed about the behaviour of the Croatian Parliament on the subject of Croatia's most important and international justice, which is why this declaration lies before the Croatian Parliament. The debate immediately on behalf of clubs, voting without conditions with other matters, only in this way will the declaration meet its purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92961	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Vuksic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92962	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. You should actually ask yourself first how they feel now that he's been setting me up with a procedure for the victim of Shessel's crime. They are the most important, we need to, and we should not react at all that we should not give pate to the victims. The procedure is an important, absolutely integral part of parliamentaryism, democracy. I thought that yesterday we agreed that we would speak on behalf of clubs, without replicas, and that we would do so because of what we agreed, in fact we agreed, there was no blackmail yesterday that there would be a first item of the agenda and that around 11 o'clock, absolutely half 12 would have ended and that it would immediately vote and refer to the European Parliament and The Hague court. I agree with my HDZ colleagues that we should discuss foreign policy in the Croatian Parliament and I have suggested several discussions, but I do not think it is a good condition for the adoption of the Declaration with a debate, an ultimate debate to be held in 7 days. If we can also agree to the clubs to meet afterwards and on behalf of most clubs, it is unlikely that the Kukuriku coalition will agree to this, but all opposition clubs will make a request to the President of the Parliament for the entry of the agenda point as soon as possible on the foreign policy debate. For what? Because it's bad, which isn't really there, which is a follow-up, which is, you would say by the quotes "traditional" as it was before you know those 2B, so this third B is still today, the only thing you're listening to. At this point, first of all, there should be a state interest, ahead of the ego and in front of the interparty bickering. That is why my proposal is immediately discussed on behalf of clubs, without replicas and later clubs can give as I have proposed to the Croatian Parliament, the Presidency to include the item of the agenda, the debate on Croatia's foreign policy as soon as possible in the agenda. And if the state top had reacted right away, we wouldn't be doing this job for sure today. And I agree with my colleague, Jadranka Kosor, we agreed right away, we did a good job and unanimously. So let's not spoil what we did right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92963	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Nedzad Hodzic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92964	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I've come to understand a little bit differently about this Declaration, or I've realized that we're still going to discuss it today and we're going to have the opportunity to intervene on certain details. Yesterday when I got it, I called my colleague Kosor's club and pointed out two things that should change or be complemented by me, but it was said that we might be able to come to this debate today. So I'm sorry if we won't discuss it, so we'll try to fix the text ourselves. And what I think needs to be fixed, so the Declaration itself in the second paragraph says: "It reminds that Vojislav Seselj before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia is accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity committed against Croats, Muslims and other non-Serbs.". So I'd like to pray that in the text of this Declaration there are Bosniaks. I know that at that time and the documents in front of The Hague are also spoken in the indictment of Muslims but I think that today when we know exactly who this is about, then in the text of this Declaration instead of Muslims there are Bosniaks because they are there. The fourth paragraph of this Declaration states: "It indicates that the Hague indictee Vojislav Seselj, after returning to the Republic of Serbia, continues to threaten, intimidate and spread ethnic and national hatred and impatience, insults and humiliates victims and publicly advocates territorial claims towards the Republic of Croatia as members of the EU and NATO.". So I would ask that it be complemented by these other independent and sovereign countries of the region. So the Serbian project is not a project to take over part of Croatian territory, but... The whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, part of Macedonia, so if we are talking about a large Serbian project that was seen by large Serbian politics, then I think that should be complemented. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, I think in principle that we are all too much about what Seselj is saying, I hope that this issue will not turn into an internal political issue in the Republic of Croatia because I do not think it is worth it. We need support, of course, to warn the Republic of Serbia of all its obligations to do as a candidate for membership in the European Union but we also need to give a hand on the other hand, a large Serbian project has long failed, long ago. So what was supposed to be, he could still be in someone's head, in some ideas. Today, I will remind you of Montenegro's independent republic, Bosnia and Herzegovina's independent sovereign state, organized by Dayton, and that is what I believe to be the minimum of the internal structure, so all other things must go towards improving and strengthening that state. Croatia has long been an independent, sovereign member of the NATO Pact, a member of the European Union. About Kosovo not to speak, and probably the degree of duchy autonomy will eventually strengthen. So the large Serbian project is dead in a practical sense long ago and it can be and exists only in the heads of Seselj and similar to him and I ask you not to pass it on in some powerful way in our within political action in Croatia. I think the Declaration should be adopted in my opinion, with certain small repairs, and with that story about Seselj finished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92965	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to the HDSSB club and respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92966	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. 45 minutes of this break and the club debate. If we had started, put the declaration on the agenda, if Mrs Kosor had been the head of this task force who worked on this, had read the declaration and had opened the debate and the name of the clubs would have been more than half, about 11 hours we could vote the declaration and send a strong message to the European Parliament that the Croatian Parliament had brought this declaration before the European Parliament about our invitation to the International Hague Court to return the Hague indictee Seselj to his place. However, we were sent a strong message from Serbia the other day that we are unable to preserve or place 10 Cyrillic plates, so we are unfortunately not a parliament capable of bringing, on the basis of two days of talks, a declaration that has become everything, just not what it was meant to be. So we consider Mr. President of the Parliament, some colleagues have already opened the topic of the declaration to be inserted, which should be thrown out, I think it is a shame that we are discussing and sending the wrong message from Croatia, from the Croatian Parliament. We are a parliamentary country and I am sure of one thing, let no one mind me, that this prevents personally Prime Minister Milanovic and Mrs Pusic from discussing it this morning. We are a parliamentary country and this government has come out of this Parliament. If we are ashamed here, whether we are the right or the left or the center or the new force, some future power, we have made this Parliament a shame. Now, five more minutes each of us will crush, beat empty straw, break for a break, story for a story, politics for politics, and the real meaning of this morning, the beginning of this day of our Parliament should have been a message to the European Parliament of the Croatian Parliament to strongly seek the condemnation of the rank and this salty mortal that made the Hague tribunal towards Seselj. And what should this smart man say in front of this pay phone in front of the Croatian public? So we need to talk about Croatian foreign policy, Croatian internal politics. And you don't think maybe that we're the only country when the prime minister is presenting an annual state report we're not discussing as representatives but only on behalf of the club, we're talking to ourselves, and now we're not allowed to address at least 5 minutes, 10 or 15 about the declaration or if we read it, that we voted and agreed, sent a message to the European Parliament from Croatia and the international and world public. So the message from Serbia is so sometimes you need to listen to those we think have no idea what they're saying, very strongly, a clear message to Croatian foreign policy: when you are unable to save 10 tables, you are unable to bring a declaration, how you are able to protect the national interests of Croatia, either internally or externally. I think the message is clear. Mr Milanovic should not even look back today on what is the role of the Croatian Parliament, and this is a message that we are in charge of the Croatian people to send her from here and anyone who says it is not true lies does not tell the truth. This is clear who manages this House, not here, not this Parliament, but across the street is the centre of power and there decides who will say what unfortunately about the Croatian state. And the shortest message: we condemn the Hague court procedure and ask the international tribunal to return to prison and to strongly condemn what it did to the Croatian people, Croatian defenders and the Croatian state. And when there's going to be a debate, frankly, we don't care.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92967	My fellow Salapic, however, I warn you that your qualifications are not appropriate to colleagues who speak here, perform in the best faith. I don't think that's appropriate. Everyone according to their responsibilities, abilities and their convictions, I hope for their conviction or political option to make their views known, so don't qualify them to beat up empty straw. I'm asking you nicely. ... Okay, it's my job to warn you about that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'd like an honorary representative of Mila Horvat on behalf of the club. Excuse me, Your Honor, Mr. Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92968	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Perhaps the fact that I am speaking after my colleague who has a badge on his jacket's lapel represents the best illustration of the situation in which we are discussing this topic, especially the situation concerning the club I belong to, which unfortunately does not have any sensitivity in this assembly, except that this sensitivity has shown that only yesterday afternoon we were invited to join the consent of this text declaration, and the media on Friday is shaving that the Parliament unanimously agreed on the text of the declaration. If it is, let it be, but I want to say here that we haven't had a chance to agree on that text. By agreeing at the end as my colleague Hodzic does, we certainly won't agree to that. So much for getting started. As for the procedure, Mr. President, every charter, every document deserves to be discussed in this House, and it is in the House to preserve the dignity of the debate and dignity of this home. It is up to you and the Presidency to decide when and at what point the debate will be open and no matter what other issues I disagree with my HDZ colleagues, they are right. I came here today to hear other colleagues and colleagues and to participate in the debate, after which we decide how we will treat this text. And for that reason, I think it's necessary for this debate to take place. And now two words about two other topics. In the past year, has the President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Foreign Minister, MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament been fully alerted by the growing hate speech and anti-majority mood in the Republic of Croatia during the year of the country's anti-civil campaign? Yes, it is. But it wasn't as they say in some parts of our country or wider space or torment about it except the speech of anger and the sight of anger and anger. And hate speech continues in different forms including those that come into the memory column in Vukovar. Yeah, and that's not what we're discussing. We are celebrating unity about how we have reached agreement on this document, and that we are humiliating one another in a place where we should kneel to one another and to those who have died we do not talk about it. We've turned this into the worst means of political competition and conquering power, and all of it for the great sacrifice. And we humiliated her and insulted her the moment we turned her and turned her on a daily basis into a means of conquering power. And at the end of what authorities? Is it because in this country, inequality and poverty grow on a daily basis? In order to colonise and become a colony and a slave place for living on a daily basis, it has not occurred to anyone to adopt a declaration and to refer to this same European Parliament as to what is happening to the citizens of a small country, a new member. No! No! Because we're patriotism looking at it the other way. Unfortunately, he doesn't make and he doesn't make right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92969	Thank you very much, dear fellow Pupovac. The next club is the Social Democratic Party club and respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92970	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Let's remind ourselves a little. When the clubs made almost up the details, they made up a proposal for a declaration, the joint declarations were attended by many by the President of the Parliament in order to put this item on the agenda because of the urgency. The president of the Croatian Parliament immediately did so. There was a proposal then for all clubs to be spoken only on behalf of clubs. However, given the afternoon, that was the case. However, that is why it seems quite reasonable to me this morning, it was just a proposal, a reasonable proposal from the President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Josip Lek, to rush, so first thing in the morning, to interrupt that constitutional agenda with the announced points to read the Declaration because it was agreed that they would vote it immediately and thus have a declaration before the adoption of the European Parliament. It was in our conversations just when we were making up this text that was one light motive to hurry up with that. That's what happened. However, today, this morning, now that we are about this topic that we have achieved and we were proud of it all together to show one unity, unity, maturity, and not again some in this procedure of some division. So all clubs agreed most importantly on all legal and political issues regarding this declaration. That's why there's no need for this morning's performance now for some of us to share again when I say we've achieved such a commonity. And the best way to deter yesterday's attack on Croatia was by force, today from individuals or a group of words is precisely community. But apparently, gentlemen, colleagues dear and colleagues have been frightened of Croatian communities. And our enemies, whether they are individuals or a certain group, anywhere that they are best and feed on our disunity most. It has already been noted here, these are some valuable things and it should be said that this unity is not only a formal nature that can be expressed by formality in one declaration, but rather a commonity that would truly require this honesty, humility, and courtesy. That is why it is the SDP's message that we share in the unity, maturity and wisdom that we need so much in many things, especially when it comes to Croatian national interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92971	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Cain, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92972	Honorable President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, I agree with all those who are on track that by any chance this debate is open, this debate would already be over. I don't think anyone's hiding anything from the other side. This must be said in the Croatian public for the last seven days. And I agree that we should talk about the Declaration not only read the same. I don't see where the problem would be if this assembly talked about foreign policy itself, but neither is Mr. Pupovac far from the truth when he says that every crime should be talked about in the same way whether it's about ours or whether it's about theirs. And clearly, this anti-civil campaign that has been campaigned in the Republic of Croatia over the last seven or eight months was to be discussed far more strongly. When we talk about this declaration in connection with the decision of the International Criminal Court, I am not experiencing a declaration against Seselj. God forbid he'd imagine he's some size now. He's nothing in Serbia, let alone something in the Republic of Serbia. So this is a declaration against the proceedings or better said by the Hague court, an institution that has had its post but which loses it by such actions. On the other hand, I want to say, God forbid that the UN, that Croatian Parliament there in '95. Or '96. It wasn't or that we weren't for The Hague Court's Statute. We who are then, and '95. or '96, were representatives of the Croatian Parliament very well know in what atmosphere the statute under quotes "voting", what emotions were, what tensions here in the halls and not counting any further. Someone's gonna say what the Parliament was, this is a camel now, but good thing it is. Why is it good that it is? Because no matter how uncertain the circumstances are, they are the uncertain Croatian future no longer questionable in any way. And well said Minister Matic goes away and heals himself. On the other hand, we have now... Well he said well, he said well to me and you think differently but I think that might be the strongest sentence we've had the opportunity to hear in the last seven or eight days. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Seselj, and I'm going to say, is one lascivious today, but exactly how dangerous he was there in the early '90s. And his role in the early '90s was in no way marginal. Not that he was just a war-scraper, but exactly what Milosevic couldn't do with his Chetniks. And I dare say that the Chetniks feared more than the JNA. They stole, massacred, killed, robbed, raped, I don't know what else to say. But what is also important, I do not believe that Seselj can destabilise Serbia, let alone Croatia. It can entertain people in Serbia, that it can make Serbia laugh, that it can folklore in Serbia or that it should not be expressed, that is. But that folklore that offends us, it hurts us because it offends the victim is something I believe we can deal with, and with Serbia I guess we still need to establish one communication economically and not count on it anymore. All in all, it might be best if the debate had already opened, because it would have been over, if we could just say what everyone thought about it. But once again, I think I'm not far from the truth if I say that this declaration to be discussed is not against that Seselj. For God forbid he should imagine that now some size was in Serbia, either in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92973	Dear colleagues and colleagues have exhausted the list of clubs seeking a break. And, of course, as appropriate to one democratic parliament, the colour of democratic views came out. Which may be a good democratic norm, in principle. This is about one act discussed by clubs and agreed by clubs, unfortunately not everyone was invited, but the declaration does not agree with those who signed it, so it opens up a new problem. Secondly, it's... Easy, easy, easy, easy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please don't. In other words, the attempt was in line with practice, with a standard in the Croatian Parliament which is not unknown to the Croatian public to agree that a debate will sometimes be held in the Assembly. And certainly, it is my humble opinion that the Parliament can decide that without the Parliament's presidency. And my proposal was also to set a break to agree, to have the Parliament agree whether we would read a declaration that was agreed and signed by all clubs except one, which I regret that this bar was not present, and so that in time the matter that was agreed would be voted out and sent to the public Croatian and European. Of course, this agreement was not reached here in the benches, so it was called to the Rules of Procedure, which was fine, and the deal was not so, so we opened a debate which you also listened to and the Croatian public. Now we have to reach an agreement again if we want to continue, get a break and reach an agreement on how we're going to work. Because if we work in accordance with the current Rules of Procedure, then let's open the agenda as I said and so the declaration will come and we'll do it as the Rules of Procedure predicts. Therefore, an attempt to open the topic of foreign policy is a legitimate attempt and a legitimate topic for the Croatian Parliament, not just about foreign policy, about any policy that is in the part of the Croatian Parliament. But that request must be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, done in a business manner. And that's what colleagues know. But there was no request to be included in the agenda or conclusion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, nor a item of the agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So legitimate is a request, but it has to be a business request. It's all right. Secondly, I am convinced that in the case that we are talking about, that is, the subject that we are talking about politics is good at seeking consensus, I repeat, and I repeat, everyone. Because in my opinion, it's without qualifications whether it's a hate speech, whether it's a policy, whether it's a group, which groups, who's being returned to a speech from the '90s. There is no need to ignore and no hate speech, I agree, no need to ignore anywhere. Building a society is also about being responsible for small phenomena. And to finish it, I'll finish it. I suggest that if a consensus can be reached in the Croatian Parliament within the practice that we had, obviously we do not have a consensus now to read the declaration and vote on it, to open a debate in clubs. Now most of them have said it, and then we can start arguing about clubs. No replicas, that's a deal, that's a proposal, or I'll give you a break, so make a deal with the club representatives, and we'll see. I suggest then that I do not ask you to vote, I ask that the representatives of the clubs who are and are working on the declaration take a break and agree and come with the proposal if they have a unique one, if they do not, then we will according to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. I'm setting the station at 10.55. It's 10:00.45. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.55 HOURS]] So, according to an agreement on a declaration in connection with a decision by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia on the provisional release of indictees Vojislav Seselj on the loose, we are discussing immediately. According to an agreement, club representatives participate, only they and the club representatives have no replicas at the presentation. So, the promoters of the declaration are the Clubs of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. You received the motion for an act at the session. The first one will be spoke by the proposing representative, and is also a representative of the club, a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. That's how I open up the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92975	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I'm glad we made it, that's also a good message. Let him fill us with optimism. So, I will time that I am allowed to speak on behalf of the club, separate and read, if you agree, and we have also agreed to read the text of the declaration, because I think it is important, and by doing so we also respect Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament's proposal to read the declaration, I personally think it is good. So, ladies and gentlemen, the Croatian Parliament is acting on the basis of Article 81. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, promoting the values of peace, freedom, rule of law and democracy, in favour of the continuation of the EU enlargement process in individual evaluation of the achievement of candidate countries in meeting the criteria, stressing the provisions of the declaration of principles of international law, in view of friendly relations and co-operation between states in accordance with the UN Charter of the General Assembly 2625 of 1970, recalling the international legal commitments of all states and international organisations to respect fundamental legal principles, friendly relations and cooperation between nations, the rule of law and respect for human rights. Citing the provisions of Resolution 827 and other relevant resolutions of the UN Security Council, stressing the need for full compliance with the provisions of the International Criminal Court statutes, it brings the next declaration in connection with the decision of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia on the provisional release of indictees Vojislav Seselj on the loose. The Croatian Parliament as the most legislative and representative body of the Republic of Croatia expresses its deep dissatisfaction with the decision of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia on the temporary release of indictee Vojislav Seselj on the loose. I remind you that Vojislav Seselj is accused before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia of war crimes and crimes against humanity committed against Croats, Muslims and other non-Serbs in large parts of Croatia, BiH and Vojvodina, Serbia. I remind you, colleagues and colleagues, that this formulation I just read was taken directly from the indictment against Vojislav Seselj. He points out that the decision of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia on the interim Vojislav Seselj's freedom has been taken without uniform criteria and deviation from the principle of rule of law, suggests that Hague indictee Vojislav Seselj, after returning to the Republic of Serbia, continues to threaten and spread ethnic and national hatred and impatience, insults and humiliates victims, and publicly advocates territorial claims towards the Republic of Serbia as members of the EU and NATO. It calls on the UN Security Council to urgently discuss the work of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in this case in order not to violate trust in international institutions established as promoters of the rule of law, the establishment of justice, peace and stability as generally accepted values. It urges the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to recall its decision to temporarily release indicted Vojislav Seselj on the loose. It stresses the commitment of the Republic of Serbia as a candidate country for EU membership to unequivocally condemn any hate speech, a major Serbia project and the end of internationally recognised borders in line with the values of international law and democratic standards that apply among EU members. Here are the ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. This is the text of the declaration that has been agreed, but which was made in the best faith where everyone who participated and most clubs in the Croatian Parliament contributed. We have come from the same principles, first of all in condemning that decision by the International Criminal Court in order to call off that decision, that Seselj, a war criminal who has no conviction, but undoubtedly because of everything we know about him, that we can qualify him as a war criminal back where he belongs, which is The Hague, to complete the process and to give him the verdict. 12 years of mockery and the International Criminal Court and the body it founded, these are the UN, the entire international public, but above all its repeated insult to victims and dead and the living is unacceptable. That is why we think that all who have worked on this document that this is a good starting point for our representative in the UN in the debate before the Security Council or the UN Council on the International Criminal Court which will follow next month that this is an important foothold that the Croatian Parliament as the most representative and legislative body has adopted such a harmonised text, which is in fact a uniformly agreed position. Shessel's freedom is ladies and gentlemen an insult to all the victims of the war and to all his victims. I just remind you of the fact that many families continue to seek their loved ones. Many who have been taken to Ovcara are still wanted. There were 200 remains found, others taken to Ovcara are still wanted. So that his screaming that continues to advocate the great Serbian idea and ideas of ethnic cleansing, the idea of territorial claims is an additional insult and for the families they seek, an additional insult to all those who have not yet managed to find their loved ones and light a candle, pray and finish this painful and difficult mourning process that has lasted for many since '91. And he's laughing and I don't agree with those who think we've been dealing with Seselj too much. We are not dealing with Seselj we are dealing with the fact that the International Criminal Court in this case has shown different criteria, I will not specify examples but you will all remember some relevant cases that we have in collaboration with the International Criminal Court and in this. Certainly the chief prosecutor of the International Court of Justice, Mr Brammetz, too, is completely incomprehensible to me why Mr Brammertz did not complain. He complained in other cases, why he didn't complain about this when it was absolutely evident that it stemmed from the charge that it was crimes against humanity, that it was war crimes. So that's what we point to in the declaration and make it a New York foothold in next month's debate. Double criteria are absolutely inadmissible. And finally, by the fact that after 12 years of the trial, by making a verdict in The Hague, the fact that Seselj mocked that international institution, remember his words that I "smileed" in front of those judges and judges and prosecutors and victims but of course also the state from which he was going. This must move us to stay awake, for surely these events, which we have witnessed, show that in fact Seselj ruled against The Hague. If this remains the way it is now, then we can conclude that he has actually reached a verdict to The Hague court that did not have the strength and the possibilities and the mechanisms, and the court must have it, to make a decision in the event of such serious charges or serious charges. And finally, we are certainly showing this declaration the direction in which we will go as a member of the EU. Our negotiations were difficult, our negotiations had incredible ups and downs, more downs unfortunately. One of the most difficult jobs was in Chapter 23, which included the war crimes trial and co-operation with the International Criminal Court in The Hague. We have constantly had to prove that we do not work with the figure in our pocket, that as a state we are truly acting by respecting the rule of law as fundamental principles and we have to prove it to the ladies and gentlemen until the last second to avoid monitoring and after entering the European Union. We have these and such standards today as a member of the European Union and as a member of the United Nations, we have the right to ask others, of course, of the Republic of Serbia whose leaders, whose leadership, in no way at all, have not just been fenced from savage attacks and expressions of hatred through the threat, in fact, to the victims and the dead and the living, and to threaten witnesses. Therefore, such criteria must also be met by the Republic of Serbia and must prove that it has condemned war crimes, condemned aggression and will only be able to continue the path towards joining the European Union. Finally, since it was put here as a question or as a problem, like the one that has been raised and triggered this debate, i.e. as the one who called the meetings, I want only for the public because of and all of you to say, all but just all the clubs in the Croatian Assembly received a call, I sent it from my office, they also received a call for the first meeting that was called on Monday at 11 o'clock, everyone. For the second and when we agreed to the Declaration, we who worked on it, when we agreed on it, then I sent the text to all the clubs in the Croatian Parliament. So anyone who wanted to join, contribute or just eventually sign could have done it. Thank you very much, I suggest that after this debate we really declare the Declaration and send a clear message to the public that we can only do our best and whenever we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92976	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague Kosor. We're continuing the club debate. It is up to the HDSSB club and respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92977	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. It is good that we have managed to bring this, declare the Declaration and send a strong message from the Republic of Croatia to events that primarily speak not only of the International Community and the Hague Court, but also of the Security Council of the United Nations which should nevertheless reconsider the role of The Hague court today, the way the Hague court is acting in some cases, the high politicisation of that court and the decision on human fates in the way they think. The public should be reminded because history is sometimes forgotten that precisely our country, the Republic of Croatia has initiated the establishment of The Hague Court for crimes committed in the area of the former Yugoslavia and has just been one of the biggest advocates of the punishment of war crimes was the Republic of Croatia. So it is a little strange and embarrassing for our country that the Hague Court has dared to make such a decision which is just a difficult blow not only to all those who lost most of their loved ones in the Homeland War, innocent civilians and defenders but also to all Croatian citizens and also leaves a certain, unnecessary burden on our difficult way of creating an independent sovereign Croatia, a NATO member and today the European Union. I owe it to you, given that at the time I spoke to the President, it has no bearing on the position of our club in some translated meaning, I know that you are a good man and that you probably understand the need and importance that this Declaration is leaving the Croatian Parliament this very time before this time. And those who called me for this badge that I am holding here, I will also tell the Croatian public something that is very important. When Seselj dared to congratulate on the Day of Remembrance of Vukovar in those difficult moments of silence and memories of those who laid their lives as the foundation of the Croatian state, when he dared to congratulate the Chetniks on the day of Liberation of Vukovar I will remind the public that Branimir Glavas is 5 years old, he set out in the 5th year for the Constitutional Court's ruling on his rights under the ruling of the Supreme Court of Croatia. And just now Mr. Glavas, the Croatian general of the first 100 Kalashnikovs for the defence of Vukovar, gave General Tomislav Mercep, 100 Kalashnikovs first to defend Croatia's statehood in Vukovar. So those who dare to mention why we wear this better not to open these issues on these issues because the debate can go the wrong way. What is the real purpose of this debate and the Declaration is the need for the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament, the Assembly to send a strong message to The Hague court that we demand that, on the basis of what the Hague accused, Seselj has said in Belgrade in recent days, he is strongly condemned and that as a suspect awaiting the UN court's verdict, he is returned to The Hague prison, waiting for his verdict where he belongs. First of all, we are more concerned about the guarantees given by the Republic of Serbia for its arrival in Belgrade, Seselj could not be returned so easily that the Serbian government did not give permission to return it, a guarantee to The Hague court that it would not violate the rules on which the court acted. Something went public about it, about 4.5 points, by all these points he already deserved to be sent back to prison and to wait for the verdict where he came from. What should be more concerned about Croatia's foreign policy is the messages that came from the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, primarily the ridicule of Croatian state policy by Dacic, who spoke about Cyrillic boards in Vukovar in one inappropriate and rude way unique to him. And I believe that such a statement should have been addressed by Foreign Minister Vesna Pusic and Croatian foreign policy as a whole because it is not possible for the candidate country, which is on its way into the European Union to allow leaders, prime ministers, foreign ministers and states to ignore in this way what Seselj is doing on the streets of Belgrade, which is, in particular, a member of the European Union and NATO pact to send hate messages, congratulating the Chets of the Day of Liberation of Vukovar, threatening and mocking Croatian state authorities. And we as a private neighbour, as a country that has done a lot for each other's reconciliation, remember only Franjo Tudjman and the Law on Abolization, remember all those laws that the Croatian Parliament has brought to a high degree of respect for the rights of Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality, the attempt and the creation of a difficult path of international reconciliation and respect for Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality in all areas of Croatian public, political and social life, following a difficult war and aggression in the Republic of Croatia. Such messages by the Prime Minister, the president of Serbia, the foreign minister that they do not want to comment on Seselj's views because they would comment on themselves, or they would talk about themselves in view of their close cooperation with him in the days when the aggression on the Republic of Croatia was just a clear sign of a threat to Croatia's foreign policy and the Croatian state as a whole. Our foreign minister should have responded not to some by-line statements, i.e. our government as the executive authority that passed from this House should have brought a strong message to the Republic of Serbia, and there are several ways: the withdrawal of our ambassador from Belgrade to Zagreb, our condemnation of the non-reaction of Serbian authorities on the path of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union. We are a member of the European Union, we have the right to veto every step of the Republic of Serbia that does not condemn what the Republic of Croatia is looking for, and is seeking the provocations that have just come from Vojislav Seselj. So remember the somewhat forgotten regrettable General Ante Gotovina, his case at The Hague Court, his groundless imprisonment, his maintenance of the sentence for something he did not do and the arrival of the Hague prosecutor then Carla del Ponte in Zagreb, the blocking of the Croatian state authorities in our regular state office, and Croatia's entry into the European Union, requests for artillery diaries, little or no of its arrivals in Zagreb and under the threat of our entry into the European Union and seeking the arrest of General Ante Gotovina. Croatian authorities had to execute the warrant, monitor Ante Gotovina, arrest him, send him to The Hague court and all the hard efforts that had been slapping themselves, do to meet requirements towards a greater state and political goal, which was Croatia's entry into the European Union, which was important. And remember these difficult demands that the Hague prosecutor made to the Republic of Croatia. Remember the hunt in Virovitica and the return of the general to prison again after he went hunting with his friends. Remember all the bizarre things the Hague court has asked of Croatia, and everything under the threat of our entry into the European Union, and you see today a Hague suspect Seselj who dares to send the messages to Croatia on the streets of Belgrade, which is even more worrying. He still has some supporters who are insinuatingly threatening Croatia and are looking again for Greater Serbia. And remember those reactions that we haven't heard from the Croatian government, Prime Minister Milanovic and Vesna Pusic, and that was to be expected, no offense to anyone personally. We believe that if someone takes over the resort in Croatia, the government is responsible for all the political options in the country, not just the one from which it came. Is this about the SDP, the HNS, any one because the Kukurik coalition member does not care. It is important that we look here in the Croatian Parliament, and we have the full right to have the Croatian Government and Croatian foreign policy represent the interests of the Croatian people, not any political option. And without too much saying that it is really important to what Seselj was saying in Belgrade, what he was sending, we are more concerned about the reaction of Serbian authorities, and that is something much more important than what Seselj was saying in Belgrade. He'll end up where he belongs anyway. Unfortunately, the precedent came from a UN court that was not needed by Croatia. And colleagues and colleagues, we have instruments to prevent this behaviour of the Republic of Serbia as members of the candidate for entry into the European Union. Much is expected of us, and we have done much to make this co-existence better and to open the door and help all our neighbours, especially the Republic of Serbia to become a member of the European Union. If someone will mock our moves and all those victims who have fallen for the defence of Croatia, our path is one of the most difficult ways to enter the European Union, and it has lasted for a full 10 years precisely because of the pressure of the International Community, because of the humiliation of the late President Tudjman and his policy, because of the opening of those videos from the office of the President of Croatia, the law of the god Carla del Ponte and its threats to Croatia over General Gotovina, and the shame that today Croatian generals of innocent prisons and wait for the mercy of our slow judiciary, in this case the Constitutional Court of Croatia to which you asked me, according to Glava, to the people who defended Croatia, and we here today cannot say what we think of Seselj because we have to keep good neighbourly relations. We are in favour of helping the Republic of Serbia understand its path, its place in the environment and its way into the European Union, where the Republic of Croatia is. We will help all but ask the neighbours and ask from this place that what has threatened Croatia's path to create statehood and what has shaken many Croatian families who have forgiven, and never forgotten their victims, because of all those children who no longer have their parents and mothers, we are looking for neighbouring countries to act as a candidate country for entry into the European Union and to respect Croatian national interests, which is primarily the interest of defence of our dignity and we will not let some crazy lunatics on the streets of Belgrade threaten and speak to Croatia, mocking Croatia's government, Croatian politics without reactions from Mark's square and here from the Croatian Parliament. It's good for the President of the Parliament that we agreed today to send a message to the Hague court. We should send a message to the UN and a message to the Republic of Serbia. She is a welcome member of the European Union provided that those who have killed, slaughtered and destroyed Croatian children and Croatian defenders, innocent people, on the way to our country's creation, are denied. We call on all reasonable authorities in Belgrade to condemn this, to abolish Seselj's guarantees for his stay in Serbia and to bring him back to prison and to await his verdict there. And we will be neighbours and give our hand at the moment when we realize that the criteria of the Republic of Croatia for joining the European Union have been met and that the rights of Croats in the Republic of Croatia are at least at the same level as the rights of Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality in the Republic of Croatia. Then we are on the right track to have European neighbours and countries that have earned their place in the European Union. We support this declaration, we thank everyone and especially Mrs Kosor, who led this task force, which we could agree together at the first step of the defence of Croatian national interests, which is that we must not let anyone compromise our difficult way of creating our own and sovereign state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92978	Thank you, too. The next club is the SDP of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92979	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club was one of the co-authors and signatories of this Declaration and particularly proud as the holder of the ruling coalition that we have reached a consensus on important issues, on national interests on all issues raised in the Declaration, and the Declaration particularly highlights the values of which, when a colleague Kosor spoke, in particular by reading the text of the Declaration itself, I will repeat those values, values, values of peace, freedom, rule of law and democracy, but also by highlighting all those values that are highlighted in the Declaration on the principles of international law in view of friendly relations and cooperation between states, and all in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations. We at the SDP Club have pointed out from the outset, and this is also a joint reminisce I would say which were the grounds for establishing the International Court for punishing those responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed in the area of the former Yugoslavia. So, which was founded by Resolution 827 on May 25, 1993. Resolution, so the United Nations Security Council. For this reason, it is particularly pointed out in that declaration that the release of Vojislav Seselj, therefore the victims not only did not get satisfaction, but they unfortunately experience additional victimisation with his behaviour on the loose. We are also many times, and I will remind this occasion of the response that President Meron sent to President Ivo Josipovic that it is a matter of politicians to establish peace that the court has nothing to do with it. That is not so true, because in a ruling by Tadic on 2 October 1995, the appeal court has literally stated that it is the court that contributes to the restoration and maintenance of peace in these areas. Therefore, the court’s task is not only to condemn war criminals, but to have it in mind of victims and respect for victims of which every court and national lowest species, let alone one International Court must take care of its actions. Thus, he takes his convictions and during his conduct to take care of the victims in order to establish such justice as the foundation and guarantee of peace and security. So here we are in the Declaration in particular pointing out that Vojislav Seselj is accused of war crimes, crimes against humanity. So, the most serious crimes committed against Croats, Muslims, other non-Serbs, in large parts of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Vojvodina, as well as for contempt of the court. So, only his stance before the court indicated that it would, therefore, be one of the indicators that the defendant would remain at large. However, such an oversight and a firm denial of such a fact does indeed cause decompression, misunderstanding of such procedures, and we disagree. That's what we say in the Declaration. With that kind of behaviour of a court that must at any moment take care of its legitimacy and integrity, therefore, and its important mission, to establish justice as a guarantee of reconciliation and removal from social and political life of any country of anti-democratic ideology, especially where the traps were and have led to war, to terrible aggression. First of all, here I will highlight Croatia. But both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Vojvodina and hence, which was exercised over the non-Serb population. So such tolerance and such behavior certainly harm all the positive changes we have made on the path of peace and cooperation. We also point out that full co-operation with the court is one of the main obligations in the European Union's policy towards the Western Balkan countries on their European path. We have seen here that many who have already spoken on behalf of the club, so with this last point that we stress the role of all candidates, including the country of Serbia, that it is precisely helping all advanced forces to condemn such behaviour in an unequivocal way. That's what Croatia is asking for, that's what Croatia has the right to ask for, because that's what it's asked for, and that's what every country needs for it. There can't and shouldn't be stuttering. As I would disagree with those who said the Croatian government did not react. Unfortunately, the Croatian government is not, in this process the Croatian government is not against Seselj, it is not a party, so the court did not even inform it otherwise it would have been certain in the process itself and the decision that this was done in an adequate way but at that stage reacted. The Croatian government is reacting, it has already reacted, is taking a number of measures, especially here I am pointing out and action taken by Mr. President Ivo Josipovic. So here I especially stress not only the values that are highlighted in that declaration, it's special value here, we can all be proud of that. That's not why someone should feel less interesting or significant, because this is no matter who's in opposition or in power we've shown that we know, we've shown this one union that we know to be together when national issues are in the interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92980	Thank you, too, dear colleague. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92981	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed declaration addresses the UN Security Council. The UN as the founder of the UN tribunal within the Security Council is discussing a report on the action of the court. And that's why we're addressing the Security Council with this declaration. 11.5 years of court proceedings without telling or declaring judgment, and the release of temporary freedom is considered unacceptable. And this declaration gives strong support to the representatives of Croatia in the Security Council when the debate is on the agenda. Secondly, we address the International Criminal Court in The Hague, which is required to call off the decision on the temporary release of Seselj because we believe that the conditions given, and I remind you that under the published terms of the Hague Court, it has only given four conditions, which is to hand over its passport to the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, that it has no contact with any kind of victims, witnesses or attempts to influence them in any way, does not obstruct the procedure or course of justice and that it appears before the council when it is ordered. That the conditions under the second and third points of its public action have already been violated and that this must be the basis of the court in The Hague to withdraw the decision on temporary release. It is also surprising that the prosecutor did not appeal to the Court's decision. The third address addressed to this declaration is both the government of the Republic of Serbia, which we clearly refer to as the candidate country to join the EU that out of all the ideas of the great Serbia and the policy of ending internationally recognised borders must be fenced clearly and unequivocally. Instead of any condemnation or fence from statements made by members of that government these days, only oil was poured into the fire and spread the atmosphere of uncertainty in terms of the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And fourthly, this declaration will have value and importance due to an announced debate on the same topic in the European Parliament. When I mentioned the European Parliament and the debate and the document that will be adopted there, I must express my regret that despite the fact that we have public television in the Republic of Croatia, the information during the preparation of the debate on the content of the resolution and the attempt to make it the most relaxed in the European Parliament, we are getting incomplete, on the hood, and I think it is high time for the European Parliament's reporting to see a radical change. Especially after Croatia entered full EU membership. That's who we're talking to. Who are we talking to these institutions for? Not because of Seselj, but because of the victims in the Republic of Croatia, BiH and Vojvodina. Victims killed, expelled, tortured, imprisoned and raped. It is our duty to them because so long as the Court of Justice's ruling in The Hague does not determine his responsibility, they rightly ask us to report on it and to know what the position of the Croatian Parliament is. And third, why? The reaction and measures taken by Croatian diplomacy and the government in our opinion were not enough and appropriate. We cannot accept the fact that Croatian diplomacy only sent two messages about it. First, it was sent condolences to authorities in Belgrade that there is a Chetnik duke on the loose and secondly any attempt to debate in the Croatian Parliament on the subject has been declared to be below the level. We believe that this debate is not below the level, that it is necessary and necessary because of international rights and the fact that Croatia also commits obligations to The Hague. Finally, the Assembly as a representative body of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and in such topics clearly and unequivocally must always express its position, send a message and send its clear demands to those it considers to have neither responded in due time nor in an appropriate manner. I call on all club representatives and all MPs to adopt this declaration immediately after today's debate to continue to be addressed to the European Parliament and thus to strengthen the position of representatives from the Republic of Croatia in the European Parliament in a debate that follows there and a resolution that is expected to be adopted there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92982	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92983	Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club immediately at the outset I will say that we will vote in favour of the Resolution, for the Declaration that we are not questioning it, because some colleagues have clearly misunderstood what we said when we asked to draw one conclusion about discussing our foreign policy as well. Therefore, HDZ supports the full text of the Declaration and the conclusion that we will propose will be one separate part that will not be linked to the Declaration. As far as the Seselj case is concerned, the three elements that mattered are, in fact, clear, crystallinely seen when the return of Seselj from The Hague prison came. The first thing, the first element is The Hague Court. Unfortunately, his unbelief has shown that international justice and international legal institutions are not always at the level of historical responsibility and the release of Seselj from prison, so it has caused such recommendations, reactions not only in Croatia, but as you can see far beyond our borders, even the European Parliament is today also discussing The Hague Court. It is of course, and it is good that in our Declaration we asked The Hague Court to reconsider its decision, recall it, we indicated that it was unacceptable and we asked The Hague to call it off. We also asked for a debate of the Security Council which needs to be reviewed in this case by the Hague Court, because the Security Council is the founder of that court and makes appropriate conclusions so that there is no further breach of the credibility of this court in which many have put high hopes and in which, in some moments of modern history, light was directed and we all hoped that it would in one fair, quality way clarify what was happening in Croatia in the 1990s, both Bosnia and Herzegovina and other parts that were affected by the great Serb aggression. So the first thing is the court, the unbelief of the court. The other thing is Serbia, Serbian authorities unfortunately did not react as they were supposed to. After Seselj returned for what they were not responsible for, I must also say, but neither did we react to the first ball, we waited two, three days to see what the Serbian government's reaction, the Serbian president, would be like. The reaction didn't take place today, they didn't condemn what Vojislav Seselj said today, they didn't condemn the big Serbia policy, the big Serbia project, they didn't condemn his hate speech and they didn't condemn the change in internationally recognised borders. This tells us that the idea of great Serbia continues to live in Serbia, that it is present and has a certain political power. It is difficult to say today how much this force is but we must make sure that former closest associates of Vojislav Seselj are today acting key duties in the Serbian executive authority and the president of the Republic of Serbia is a Chetnik duke who did not fence, and Vukic was also the closest associate of today's prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. So this idea continues to live in Serbia and they do not have the strength, it is now obvious and loud to say not only to their neighbours but to the whole world, but also to their citizens the project of great Serbia is unacceptable to us. We don't want a hate speech, we don't want a border crossing. We have not heard this from the Serbian authorities to today, and therefore we cannot be satisfied and we have a very good right to react and ask me as Parliament and from the Croatian executive authority to the President of the Republic of Croatia, from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to react sharply and clearly to this. And that's the management of that third component, the third element that Seselj pointed to. The reaction of Croatian structures that today govern the country, the reaction of the presidents of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the foreign minister. Their first reactions were really disappointing to all of us. The President of the Republic has expressed his grief, regret that Seselj left The Hague Court, The Hague prison, the foreign minister and it is truly incomprehensible, so I would dare say and scandalously in his first reaction, diplomacy has nothing to do with it, and there is nothing else we can do about it, which is expressing condolences to the Republic of Serbia because Seselj has returned. Using the word compassion when it comes to Seselj, that compassion can only be expressed by the victim. If you express your condolences to someone else, and you express your condolences to those who have committed crimes, and not to those over whom they have been committed, it is an inadmissible oversight, an unacceptable mistake, and then all the reactions we have heard these past two weeks have followed. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club responded immediately. We said we were dissatisfied with the court's decision, and the reaction of the Serbian authorities, as well as the reaction of our official policy. And some wonder why we are discussing Seselj so much and why it is so important to us, he is no longer a figure that can play an important role in Serbia, but he is not important as an individual is an important idea that he represents, symbolises, it is a personification of Serbia's big one. Why does it hurt Croatia, why does it hurt people in Croatia? Well, because justice has not been achieved, because there is no justice yet, there is still no clear truth about what has been happening and what has been the result of great Serbian politics. There is no justice and the victims did not find their peace in Croatia. We also have in Croatia today on the political scene, but also in various other public segments, public segments that question the fundamental values on which the modern Croatian state rests. The other day we could hear from the president of the documents, Mrs. Terselic, the thesis that the Homeland War should not be called the Homeland War, but a war conflict in Croatia in the 1990s. And instead of a single conviction, the president, Mr. Josipovic, says the document is the conscience of Croatian society. So imagine what this causes in the vast majority of Croatian citizens. Also, his former foreign policy adviser, Mr Jovic, spoke about a referendum where 95% of almost Croatian citizens expressed their desire to live in an independent, sovereign Croatia, that the referendum is illegal, almost illegal. He also questioned the Homeland War by calling it a civil war. And the third key point of modern Croatian history, entering the EU, it raises questions and says, all the countries of the former Yugoslavia should have studied together in the EU, not individually as Croatia did. After all we've been through, after a hard fight for independence, victory, bloody victory in the Homeland War, after fighting for international affirmation, joining NATO, the EU, on an individual basis, which we all earned by our own achievements, we from the highest, from the office of the president of the Republic get such messages. Well, of course people are frustrated and dissatisfied. And then the case of Seselj happens and then the government reacts as she reacts, softly, inconsistencies, disorientated. Well then, of course, this kind of discussion and this much emotion is happening in Croatia. And that is why it is good and that is why we have really constructively approached the making of this declaration, whether my own, I believe, great contribution to this final text and we are pleased that the Croatian Parliament is actually correcting a mistake that happened by the executive authority in the Republic of Croatia. And why were we looking for... What? ... I don't know what's bothering you, but you probably agree with some of the thesis I was talking about. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So why have we asked for a debate on foreign policy, but here, to reach an agreement, to reach a compromise and to go together with the declaration, we also believe that through the conclusion that we are going to open a debate on foreign policy. So this is not the first mistake of those who are responsible for foreign policy management in Croatia. I would remind myself of the Perkovic case, when we were only one or two days before we joined the EU instead of celebrating, instead of being the star of those days in the European sky, we were cast out criticism because we did not respect the agreements, the agreements we signed. We didn't hear a single word and sentence from the main creators of Croatia's foreign policy then, and the main goal, everything we have done in common for the last 10 years, was towards EU accession. The case took place after we joined the EU, defrosting the property of the Slobodan Milosevic family. Croatian diplomacy did not respond, and it had mechanisms that could point to the unacceptableness of such a decision within the EU. Why did that happen? Is that sloppy? Is that what this is about? That's what those responsible should talk about. I would also remind you that during the summer, when the Ukrainian crisis occurred, when the Council of Ministers was called, we were represented there at the lowest possible level, because the foreign minister was on vacation and did not go to that meeting. These days we're hearing about preparing for Palestine's confession, and that's why we open up and spoil our relationship with Israel, and I don't know how familiar you are with that. So why are we running ahead of the ore, that decision is not at all, nor is it coordinated between the main foreign policy makers, nor is it good and useful for Croatia. Remember the situation in which the US Internet announces that Croatia is in a coalition against... and the first of those confusing reactions by our official representatives. And these days we are looking at a non-coordination where the justice minister calls for a blockade of Serbia, and the foreign minister says there will be no new conditions, Serbia can go towards the EU. Well, that's foreign policy, that's our picture in the world. She's uncoordinated, she's disoriented, she's self-sufficient, we've ruined relationships with our main allies. Why all this, why? Who will explain it to Croatian citizens because those who should be talking about it today are nowhere to be found. We don't hear anything about these topics, and they're very important to us. Why are we so slow to integrate into the EU? I believe, I firmly believe, it is the HDZ's position, only to strengthen Croatia's integration into the EU, but not only in administrative political, economic, but in mental terms. Only in this way can we ensure the prosperity of the Republic of Croatia. We are bombarded by the region as a key priority of Croatian foreign policy. The region is not a key priority for Croatian foreign policy, the key priority is Croatia's strong integration into the EU, NATO, into these structures. The development of strategic partnerships, the use of all those opportunities offered by EU and NATO membership, unfortunately neither the President of the Republic nor the Government nor the resolution ministry do so properly. They're only telling us about the region. We are not against regional cooperation, however, it is useful for Croatia. We need to develop relations with all the countries of our neighborhood. But looking at Croatian state interests. We cannot have the interests of the region in front of the interests of the Republic of Croatia, it often happens and such perception is among the citizens, and therefore today you have this debate and these feelings about Seselj in the Republic of Croatia. So, dear, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, in conclusion. The HDZ will support the text of the declaration, we will vote for, but also independently, we will propose a conclusion and I hope that we will be supported in order to oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit by 10 December 2014 to the Croatian Parliament a report on the design and conduct of the foreign policy of the Republic so that the Croatian Parliament can conduct the same debate and draw appropriate conclusions by the end of its regular meeting of 15 December 2014. We do not want to spoil anything related to the declaration, we need to show unity, we need to show unity, we need as the Croatian Parliament to correct the mistakes that have happened. But it is also not responsible for us to overcome the mistakes that have been happening in our foreign policy for a whole series of months now, we are not satisfied and we believe that the opposition, but also you from the ruling majority, protecting the integrity and the Croatian Parliament, should encourage debate on Croatian foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92984	My colleagues and colleagues, I'm assessing that we could vote around 13.30, so I'm asking the club representatives to make sure the MPs are in the assembly. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92985	Dear Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I am happy to take part in this debate on a declaration that will be supported by the Independent Representatives' Club. I did not take part in writing the declaration, so I would like to express some of the highlights that I consider important, which is first that Seselj is the case of Serbia and The Hague court, not primarily the Republic of Croatia. Another thing I would say is that we should remain in some of the principles of hate condemnation on either side of Croatia and from any group. The Hague court's institution should be called on to work in accordance with the court's standards and to treat war crimes indictees in the same way. These are the highlights that I think are very important because it can happen when someone reads the declaration to create the impression that the Croatian Parliament is not unique in condemning hate from any side of this hatred and that we are thus exposed to criticism that we do not need. Further to what I would say that we in Croatia are so "furnished" that we are always for when we are against someone or something, and when it comes to internal issues of policymaking and Croatia's development that we are a little bit in agreement or that we are like crab children, that each one leads to its own side. This part of the debate I discussed will continue with Mr Damir Cain, and as president of the Independent Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament, I stress that we will support the text of the declaration with certain exceptions that I consider important to condemn every hate speech, every hate speech no matter what side it comes from and that hate should be stopped in a human, civilization and democratic atmosphere.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92986	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yes, before Mr. Jandrokovic mentioned Mr. Jovic, who was an adviser to Mr. Josipovic, but if I am not mistaken, he was also an adviser to Mr. Zuzul, the HDZ minister and... also Presidential candidate Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. Yes, we also noticed the statement by Mrs. Tersic, who said that the Homeland War should be called a war conflict from '91 to '95, and I will only paraphrase here the Jelena Lovrić who responded brilliantly, then you should probably call the document a buliment or document buliment. As Don Grubisic said just before, we will vote clearly for this declaration there is no dilemma, but on the trail of one of Mr Hodzic's attacks, it might be good to remind in this second point of the declaration "that Vojislav Seselj is before the International Criminal Tribunal for the Higher Yugoslavia accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity of committing against Croats," says Muslims here, it might be good to keep the Bosniaks still standing here as it is already going. What I said five minutes ago, I don't think this is a declaration against Seselj. Once again, it is not a declaration against Seselj that I am experiencing because God forbid he would now imagine that some size was in Serbia, let alone in Croatia. So this is neither a declaration against The Hague Court, this is a declaration against one proceedings or a better word of action in this particular case of The Hague Court. I agree with all those who also said that the Hague court should then be reminded of the higher and higher of these dubious criteria that apply and apostrophe both the Gotovina case and the Markac case, but also General Cermak. Once again, I'm going to say whatever someone thinks, maybe it's best to sum up this whole statement by Minister Matic, who said about, come on or go and treat himself. The truth and Mr. Milanovic said Croatia will never be rich because of the war. There was a German war, so it was rich today, it was destroyed, it was destroyed to the ground, it was different to Germany in '41. Or '39, '45. She couldn't Pacific, but apparently she was a successful country. We are a broken state, clear among other things because of the war, but probably even more because of the ease of governance and perhaps the understanding of politics. Seselj is a liar today, but in the '90s, '91, '92. And until '95. It wasn't. His role was not marginal back then. He was extremely dangerous, he was a warlock, in one word what Milosevic could not, as an exponent of such a policy, criminally, it was done by Seselj, it was done by his Chetniks. Seselj said just before and the Chetniks feared more than the JNA in the war-infested spaces. They killed and robbed and raped and massacred. And it is true that it was not only Seselj's Chetnik at the time, but that in some of his supposed ways, Nikolic and Vukic did it. What is incomprehensible, however, is that until today the International Court has not ruled with Seselj. However, he was released to treat to say his cancers not to mention names and that it is best done by politics. However, I would see, I may be wrong, but all of this, his release in some way puts into one context those recent parades that Serbia held or rather said after bowing to the quotes of Putin. So you chose Russia's mother, you parade, I have nothing against Russia to think about, you parade with the Russians, you have exercises at 40, 50 kilometers from the borders of Croatia, and that America has perhaps a dominant role or a better position or influence on the Hague court, so either it returned to Serbia or to those politicians of Seselj. Now you're dealing nicely with him. I don't have to be right, but I may not be far from the truth. Another thing I would also say I do not believe, I cannot believe that Seselj can destabilise Serbia, let alone destabilise Croatia or destabilize Bosnia and Herzegovina. That he can, that he can threaten, that he can spread evil in Serbia for sure. And that, no matter what anyone says is a laxative, but that folklore absolutely offends Croatia, it hurts. Why does it hurt? Because that's the way he mocks the victim. On the other hand, I also want to say that Serbia is an important country for Croatia, we are neighbours, we were at war, there is no war anymore. These wounds are hard to envy, these wounds are impossible to forget but if there are open questions then those open questions should be sought to close. Serbia is an important export area for Croatia, Todorovic I don't know now, Tedes are important players in Serbia, TDR etc. And in Croatia, these people or these companies are very important. Let The Hague work clearly. The fact is, with that move, the Hague tribunal humiliated the victim and somehow mocked all of us. The International Hague Court of Whatever anyone thinks was at one point and is still necessary. Croatia is a victim of aggression, Croatia came out of war with 14,000 victims, came out of the war as a winner. And history must not be forgotten, clearly it should be turned to the future. To talk to all our neighbors, to cooperate that, to negotiate that, to exchange goods, to loosen the border regime absolutely yes, to lead a good neighbourly policy and hope that there will never be another war and that no one like this will offend anyone. So what's the problem and what it's apostrophe on, what it wants to highlight this declaration is these questionable criteria of The Hague Court. And as autonomous as that court is now, it's another occasion. How independent that court is, also to some other occasion, how independent it is also to another occasion. But no matter what, no matter what justice they felt best on their skin, Generals Gotovina, Markac, Cermak, I still think that court was necessary at one point. As far as foreign policy is concerned, what my predecessor was talking about, mentioning the state president, the government, the minister, I don't know what they did wrong here because I think in some way they tried to find the right measure clearly in all of this. Someone said Nikolic and Vukic are among other issues of Seselj's policy. Right, I said before, and they were hogging and maybe shooting at Croatia or something more than that, but they only politically succeeded when they gave up Seselj and the politics they advocated and participated in in '91, '92, '93, '94. Or '95. A year. Today their policy towards Croatia is something completely different. What bothered me, however, I do not know how accurate that information is that is one statement from their foreign minister that spoke about going out to the open sea. No one can say about the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, so go away and treat Dacic, if that's true, thinks so. Croatia managed to defend itself in the 1990s. A year. What does that mean specifically, and I said that the war just isn't there and it won't be there, I just don't know, but it's something that also deserves a spotted, spotted answer. If and finally, no matter what, I want to apostrophe that the opportunities between Croatia and Serbia are stable today, there are such escapades to be discussed. The border, regardless of what these maneuvers are or are finished, is peaceful, the trade is becoming more and more pronounced, the trade ties are strengthening, and ordinary small people are increasingly being clearly directed at each other. We are all for this declaration. We do not talk here, as Mr Salapic said in one sentence about the 100 first Kalashnikovs for Vukovar, but some here speak or " make fun" of the Croatian judiciary's decisions, although I absolutely agree that it is unacceptable to say the Constitutional Court or to the Constitutional Court or judges of the Constitutional Court for 5 or more years to decide on one case, so it was also the former representative of Mr Glavas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92987	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92988	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Listening with empathy is a great communication skill. It is wise to listen, and even smarter to read than yourself. It's important when you listen and hear you, try to understand what's being heard, not to be carried by emotions. I listened to what people say about the release of Vojislav Seselj to the freedom before which the Hague court bowed down in the name of the god of humanity, not asking what the victims thought about it. Should we even discuss Seselj in Parliament? He doesn't need to be discussed of course. The world has become a dangerous, dreary place to live, but not because there are people who are evil like Seselj, but because there are people who won't do anything about this evil. It scares the indifference of good people towards evil, irritates the indifference of society towards victims. It is difficult to understand a legal profession that increasingly speaks of humanity to criminals like Seselj, and less and less counts on how victims feel about it. How do the victims of Vojislav Seselj feel when they hear he pours hate and threatens again? Tell the victims to feel it when they hear Seselj. They told me if you told me about Seselj in the Parliament, you'd give the criminal today to a minor Serbian politician with no support, not just because of the cancer that eats him, you'd give him any future meaning he doesn't deserve. It's true, he doesn't need to be given more meaning than he actually has today, but to the god who today has some particular meaning and yet we talk about them, we talk about their crimes, we condemn them, we warn that we don't do it again. Not today Seselj is significant, but it is significant and will always be a significant evil he has committed. A prominent psychiatrist, Vladimir Gruden, says that Seselj is about changing personality, about the border structure of a person prone to psychosis. Seselj's madness, Gruden says, fits well in his daily routine and uses for selfish goals and motives. So Seselj is about personality change, but not just Seselj's. The change of personality is also about Vukic and Tadic, Seselj's war and political followers. If the current president of the state and the current Serbian government president have no bloody hands, they have a bloody conscience. Whoever followed the trial of Seselj can neither surprise him nor be very concerned about what he says. If he didn't sow his hate again, it'd be weird. It concerns silence, the failure of Serbian authorities to react to that hate speech, to openly advocate the borders of Virovitica-Karlovac-Carlobag. That Serbia was ruled by someone who did not actively participate in the Sundays of the 1990s, someone who did not commit to slaughter, encouraged aggression and advocated to become their own, perhaps we could accept the words of Ivica Dacic, who dreams of the Serbian Jadran, Dacic, Milosevic's pioneer, the small of the domino, who benevolently asks if Seselj is a state official. Whether there are those in Croatia who talk about the Croatian and Serbian constitution because they need to relax relations, rather than complicate them. God damn it, those who are always and everywhere in such cases are considered to be acquittal do not but relax, and we, by speaking against criminals and criminals, complicate relationships. Seselj is not, of course, a functionary, but he was the head of the current officials who remain silent because they must not speak out loud what Seselj is saying and what they were saying until yesterday and themselves, and I think they are thinking it today. No Croatian official has resorted to Serbian sovereignty, and should have convicted him. Serbian Prime Minister Vukic is almost ironically ordering we're not even going to threaten anyone, we're just going to safeguard our freedom and our rights. The words were spoken by Milosevic in the 1990s. So they've already kept their freedoms and their rights to other people's territory. It didn't happen again! You should say again we're not afraid. You should be afraid of every innocent victim. Well, there were too many in the Homeland War, so many that the wounds won't heal for decades. Seselj's performances took off masks from Serbian authorities. Vucicic and Tadic who won't speak were demasked. About who? To his great, beloved leader and teacher, who, as a Chetnik duke, brushed them and successfully persuaded them to do evil. Because if they were to talk about Seselj, they would talk about themselves, which they don't want, because for months they've been trying to retouch the blacked lines of their biography. When we talk about Seselj, in fact, about Serbia's secluded policy towards its neighbours and about that policy being fenced, it would mean that we will be fenced from a policy in which we have won the elections and from those who have chosen Tadic and Vukic. Of course, Vukic and Tadic will not send tanks to Croatia, so no one will be able to throw flowers on those tanks. But the protest should warn that our neighbors are nowhere near trying to face catharsis. To protest victims and their dignity should be protested for injustice, for humanity against criminals and inhumanity towards victims. And so long as there is no true catharsis, there should be no European Union at any cost. The Human Hague Court has allowed the metastasized Seselj to die peacefully on the loose, and in doing so, he is still digging his victims into wounds. That's why the Hague tribunal's decision is scandalous, unfair, horrifying. The truth is, Seselj was not released by the Serbian authorities, but by the Hague court with only four unsaid conditions. That act of The Hague is mocking the victims. You have thousands of direct evidence on the Internet of Seselj's inciting atrocities, but despite this, The Hague could not reach a verdict within 12 years. It's a defeat of the court, it's a defeat of justice, it's a legal disgrace. Why didn't the Court of Seselj's temporary freedom conditional upon the ban on public appearances? Why isn't he in house arrest and really in treatment? Why isn't Seselj still being treated in The Hague where his contacts with the media wouldn't be possible? We believe that the Hague tribunal's shameful decision was to be discussed in the Parliament, and that this balanced but clear and unequivocal declaration was to be made with which we were late. As the late reactions to Seselj's release to life's freedom, and to Seselj's verbal savagery and foreign ministers and prime ministers. Mr. Gruden says the worst punishment for the disturbed Seselj would be to sit in The Hague and not to be asked about him. The Hague did the opposite. He fed the sick ego of a criminal who congratulated the executioners in Vukovar on the Day of Remembrance on a job well done. That card was signed by a gentleman from The Hague. Is it possible that the Hague court's intention to release yet another alleged criminal, Seselj, on the loose, so that in a genocide suit against Serbia, Croatia is missing those who are convicted, but I think it is. And finally, I agree with Mr Hodzic's remarks, and I don't think it's difficult to add to the Declaration the Muslim cartoons of Bosniaks or Bosniak cartoons of Muslims. I don't think that's great. It's just one word and an explanation. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92989	On behalf of the HNS Club, colleague Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92990	I would like to thank Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. This situation that we are in today reminded me of an old, old translation of Balthazar Bogisic, which in his general property code for Montenegro in 1888 translated the Katon rule as "a time that does not correct the coat of arms". And that is unfortunately applicable to both this Declaration and the way we bring it and in which we are discussing it today in the Croatian Parliament. A part of us, in good faith, constructively minding primarily, mentioned by colleagues and colleagues before me the dignity of all those who were victims of Seselj, his associates and such a kind of policy. One part of us using this same thing for a pre-election campaign, for domestic political reckonings and for collecting petty, cheap political points, by fanning exactly what they are calling for as key values the dignity of the victims that this is about. And I have to say that I am personally and my club belongs to that group of MPs in the Croatian Parliament and MPs who felt that we should not discuss this, who thought that the debate on Seselj and the Declaration on Seselj in the Croatian Assembly was a reduction of the level of one state, one Parliament, one member of the European Union, that we were throwing ourselves over the plate with one war criminal, with one crazy type, and that he was in some way an interlocutor and that we were giving him a quote, or paraphrasing what my colleague Vuksic was saying, that instead of giving him the greatest punishment that no one would ask him about him in one of the EU's parliament. But okay, okay, we agree. The initiative came, the initiative's driver approached the initiative extremely constructively in our opinion in good faith and in good faith, and we joined in the same way. We took part from the beginning, in good faith, in good faith, and I hope that our contribution was constructive throughout that story. We, I don't have to stress it specifically, will accept this resolution. We brought one quality text, one balanced text, and it really seemed that when we made it, it was really the result of the agreement, of consensus and of mutual respect and respect among all those who participated in the process of making it. But they're not all. You can see today that this is part of a debate about something else entirely. And that's what we're talking about when we talk about profaning, that's what we're talking about when we're talking about lowering levels, that's when we talk about small political points on domestic soil using some values and some victims and some tragedies that happened in this country and in neighbouring countries that shouldn't be used for such breakthroughs. It's a foreign policy debate, okay. You'll give your conclusion, we'll see what's going to happen. I suggest you call it a discussion in two chapters. The only one in this country that is serious, dignified and in a way that one serious state is expected to do the job of releasing Seselj and his statements in Belgrade was the Croatian government, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and the president of the Republic of Croatia. Just to remind you, at a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council, Foreign first council, a few days after all this happened to the first possible foreign and European affairs minister of the Republic of Croatia, the foreign ministers of all EU member states were informed of the situation that occurred after the release, about its activation, about the invitation to work, about the destruction of cooperation and the damage done to Croatia, Serbia and all. And she insisted and insisted that all EU institutions be made aware of this case. At a press conference afterwards in Zagreb at Zrinjevac at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I quote: "The Hague Court should react to the steps of Vojislav Seselj and return him to custody", it is a quote, due to his rhetoric. "Because in public opinion it introduces rhetoric which has led to a crime in the '90s and which is unacceptable anywhere. Therefore, it is obvious that the Hague institutions should react and bring him back into custody." It's a quote. The president of the Republic of Croatia has sent a letter recently distributed as a document of the Security Council and of the UN General Assembly and will be published as a document of the Security Council. In this year's debate on the UN tribunal's half-year-long next court debate, it is very likely that Croatia will also come forward for the first time, as only Croatia, BiH and Serbia usually participate in these discussions, for the first time, and the EU High Representative precisely because of the case. So much for our reactions. Did you react? ... is a member of the European People's Party, your party colleagues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Did you react? Did you react in the EPP? Where is your president and president of the HDZ Representatives Club today when such an important declaration is brought, such an important political document? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92991	A fellow Shuker, a fellow Shuker, was heard in peace by all the clubs, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92992	I'm asking you, did you react to your party that you belong to? ... But of course it's clear what this is about. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The point is that now is the goal, and we do not choose the means, and as usual we will step on the victims to reach the goal, the goal is to discredit Croatian foreign policy. Why? Because after 20 years of messing around, I don't have a better expression, for your part, the final Croatian foreign policy has managed to come up with an excessive concept of political future and political development within the EU, European institutions, proposed this concept to the EU and European institutions, and this concept has been accepted with the highest level and becomes a general EU policy. So who's more in the interest of the region than us? Guys, who's more interested in this? But of course, you need to destabilise it, you need to spit it, you need to open it because we have some other interests, which you can see from the 20 years we've run that policy, right, that's what you see and it's clear. And we will, of course, repeat, and I will no longer speak much of this, of course we will support this declaration. She's really balanced, she's good, she says everything she needs to be said, what her colleagues said, and I'm not gonna say it again. But it is sad that one thing in the Croatian Parliament can't happen without focusing on the declaration, on the victims, on their dignity and on the reasons we do it, but also use it for pre-election purposes to manipulate, darken, attack each other and to show that some of us are the one who swears that their greatest enemies are, in fact, the greatest ally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92993	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92994	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Article 238 was injured, because the representative, by his conduct, deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly by calling a club where his club president is, at the same time, his club president, I don't see a president of the SDP club. So, completely inappropriate. Secondly, it deceives the public by saying that nothing HDZ has done within the IPP and it is well known, everyone knows that the HDZ and IPP representative Mr Andrej Plenkovic has proposed that the European Parliament also discuss and as the holder is actually coming from exactly the political family from which HDZ is coming and this is the European People's Party. Therefore, the gentleman does not speak the truth and deviates from the usual rules of conduct in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92995	No injured Rules of Procedure, because if you don't like what the MP says doesn't mean it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And you have spoken far beyond the Declaration that we are discussing, discussed more about foreign policy and presented your qualifications and no one responded to such an exhibition. It's your right. And if you are not satisfied, please contact the Rules of Procedure of the Committee responsible for this. On behalf of the HSU Club, colleague Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92996	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, when we thought we would never hear it again, the Serbian Time machine has returned us 24 years into the past at the time of the greatest war crimes of the Croatian people. Incredibly war trumpets from the east are retired in the Virovitica-Karlovac-Karlobag border and known ambitions to create a large Serbia on the territory of a member of the EU and NATO. Unfortunately, it's more of a concern that there are no reactions in the neighbouring country from the top of the government, just silence and silence means approval. The only thing we heard from Minister Dacic is that we in Croatia can't defend a dozen Cyrillic plates, as if it were the most important thing. All this is due to an unreasonable and embarrassing decision by the Court of Justice in The Hague that almost unconditionally sent this war criminal on vacation. Or maybe he still has some secret annex decision on the release of Vojislav Seselj for the temporary freedom he violates by his public appearances. Of course handing him over to the Serbian authorities does not prevent him from freely spreading war-torn rhetoric. Nothing prevents him, no one controls him in contact with witnesses and influences them. Instead of ignoring him, we're giving too much importance to one lunatic. The Croatian Retired Party Club signed this Declaration and fully supports its content. It is important that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia hear the Declaration of the Croatian Parliament which contains everything that is important and that it is heard in the EU by parliament, the Security Council and the Criminal Court in The Hague. We think that after this debate by the clubs, it is enough to vote this Declaration and no longer waste any words or time, but we must turn to solving the problems most affecting our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92997	Thank you. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, counterpart Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92998	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I don't think we should talk too much. I'm glad that it hasn't hidden too much in this political sense, even if it's illusory and expected that every topic in the political sense doesn't cover it up. I'm glad that the text will be adopted and that around it will be a consensus. On the other hand, on the trail of what I was saying in the morning, I submitted one amendment. In paragraph 2 of this Declaration, I asked that the word "Muslims" be replaced with the word "Bosnacs" but in the repeated consultations with all clubs and promoters is therefore acceptable and that Muslims, with one word, draw Bosniaks change in such a way that it will be acceptable for me if other clubs do. But I think that, in the context of this Declaration in the Croatian Parliament, we should stick to the terminology of a valid legal law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so for those of us once by nationality we are called Muslims, so we are called Bosniaks and that is the case by our Constitution and by the law. I am pleased that this Declaration will be adopted and I hope that it will not, and all that about Seselj, a minor politician, on departure, happen, I hope that it will not leave any reflections or negative connotations on Croatian society, on the situation in our society and on the attitude towards national minorities, and above all I mean a relationship to the Serbian National Minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u92999	And now I'd like to pray that we still have something sooner to vote on, because we still have two clubs just, so let's get the MPs to slowly start gathering at the assembly because there were only two other clubs. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93000	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues if we, with this Declaration, showed political strength in matters concerning war crimes trials, in matters concerning the fight against hate speech and in matters concerning the power of this Parliament to establish greater justice in the country and in the region, the SDSS's Club of Representatives would not have a single dilemma on how to set up and how to relate to this declaration. But unfortunately, we do not show strength, according to one lunatic and... who is isolated in the political public and general public in Serbia, we give space in our media, in our Parliament, and we give space outside our Parliament. The SDSS representative club and my colleagues sitting here and those who are not sitting here were the object of the attack especially at the time of the peaceful reintegration of the protagonist and the policy represented by the man we are discussing here today, and we have no reason to say a single word that we can only say that this policy, this rhetoric, that campaign from the 1990s has caused enormous damage, not only to other peoples in the former Yugoslavia, Croats, Bosniaks, as reported in this declaration, has also been done by a Serb in Croatia. And that's why they're not as they were, but not being gone as they were, it's not just these campaigns, these people, it's the things of the campaign and the people who led the campaign and politics here in the same way. If I hadn't, I wouldn't have had to look back on my esteemed colleagues in my order and order behind me and their badges. I wouldn't, because they do their job and try to do it honestly and in the interest of those who chose them and the areas they consider important. But if it's not the one who's said to be not a criminal, it's a hero, so who's responsible? If that's how it was with anyone who got to prison, whether ours or The Hague, that we were on the stand that they were heroes, not criminals, my question is being asked, so who committed those crimes? Who? Part of the responsibility is in those who ran the campaign in the way a man who was released to temporary freedom leads it, but not all responsibility is with them. And we still haven't activated our judiciary that after the haag's acquittals that are not being discussed here, neither those concerning the indictees from Serbia nor those from the indictees in Bosnia or those indictees from Croatia, this is not being debated. There was no declaration when The Hague court released some of the defendants. But there is a need to bring a declaration about someone who was their exhibit, it has needs. At the moment that it wants to isolate itself in Serbia, at a time when Serbia didn't want it in its own space, but we want to bring it back to life politically and we want to give it to its relevance. Well, at least if we were to become a more political man, we could say okay, but we're not going to be any more politically powerful. We allow ourselves to drag this parliament into the mud... that the President of the Republic, that the foreign minister, that de facto all the institutions of this country are trying to be tied up in one business, about what? About a man who didn't stop talking all the time as he said in '91, he didn't stop talking either in haag and didn't stop talking even when he got out. If we have to tell The Hague that he's not doing a good job and he hasn't done it right in this case, then let's just say that. And he didn't, he brought in confusion, he put in a mess, and he started mixing politics and justice. If that's what we want to talk about, I'm strong for it. If we want to discuss the functioning of our judiciary in this matter, not our foreign policy, our HDZ colleagues, but our judiciary in this matter, in war crimes trials, let's discuss it and see if the job has been made and if mistakes have been made as some colleagues in our assembly consider. But no, we don't, we don't consider it our duty, we don't consider it our business. We're dealing with this and we're calling for unity. Now let me say a few words about this unity and the misery of the place of unity. If Vojislav Seselj is the place of our representative unity in 2014 then it is a place such as Vojislav Seselj, a rarer, a spreader of the hate campaign, and we rather than commit ourselves to the arrangement of our own country, instead of focusing on how to get this country on our feet, we allow one such person to drag us into his campaign, exhausting the energy of this Parliament, and to God provides unity. Why aren't we unique around a werewolf memory column? Why aren't we unique about it? Is it less relevant and less important than the question of a man like this? In my opinion, it's not and it shouldn't be. Why are we not unique about the condemnation of those people who would like to be banned in the clay church and belong to certain political parties sitting here in the Parliament? It's not in our focus, it's not Croatia, it's something else. And finally, and why aren't we unique about two things and why don't we bring a declaration about whether we're going to stop privatization in this country when after 25 years it's also the sparrows on the branch and crows on Zrinjevac clearly that this leads us to ruin, economic downturn and political envy, but then we need people who are going to start referendums to say we're not going to monetize the road, why don't we say that? Why don't we have our own social pension fund, but they've taken from us banks that then dictate our laws and regulations according to which our system in the country will operate? Why not bring a declaration to confirm the sovereignty of this country in at least one thing, not in response to one dictional that will extend the war campaign in the region? No, we're not gonna do that because that's a tough question. But the difficult question to ask to this place is what kind of point it is that we are sitting here if we are unable to ask such questions, especially us social Democrats and socialists who we have decided to sell out and the last thing we have, but we will not bring about this declaration because we are convinced that this is the only solution and salvation. And 25 years of that rescue and the only solution shows that it's a disaster. We can charge HDZ with their failures, but now it's our chance to look at things differently. And ultimately, there is an inequality in this country on a daily basis, its inequality towards other countries in the EU and the inequality of our citizens within our country. We want to bring finally one declaration to a stop or we're going to tell the current Pope who's giving the Europarliamentaries a lesson yesterday to declare it a counterfeiter and a man who doesn't know what he's saying, and he's telling us where we are and what we should do? And instead of dealing with the future, we're dealing with the past that someone wants to revive because someone in The Hague didn't do the job they were supposed to do. He was 12 years old to do it, and he should have done it. Why didn't he do it? He had a basis for that. All those who spread hate, who ran a war campaign, who served war makers to dynamic war, should answer among them and Seselj. Unfortunately he's not the only one, that our only cheek would in this story about the declaration be cleaner, but he's not. But we don't want to look at our face, we just want to show that the face of others is dirty, and what is the state of our face, we don't care. Our cheeks won't be cleaner if we take another chance to tell others that theirs is unclean and it is. The SDSS club, which speaks on behalf of the Serbs in Croatia who were the victim of Seselj's policy, will not be against this declaration. But all the arguments we make are against the political justification of this declaration, given the circumstances in which we are, unfortunately, there is no basis, unfortunately. And instead of dealing with what we need to do, we do what we don't need to do. Yes, Seselj humiliated us with his statement on Memory Column Day, and did we humiliate ourselves and each other on that same day with our own holding? Unfortunately, we did. But that's not what we're going to do, that's what we think is normal, and this is what we're going to do, and we're going to cover up that shame that we're giving each other in place and on the day of the people we can only have terrible repentance and great regret. My colleagues and colleagues, I repeat once again, we do not have one word enough to condemn that policy because we have fought it for 25 years and we will continue to fight now. But this kind of approach where we don't want our own house to be arranged and put in order and put into function, in which my honorary colleagues from other ranks and you sitting with them negotiating this Declaration don't have, you don't consider it mandatory for the badges you wear to compromise what you want to adopt today and what we're going to adopt days.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93001	Thank you very much. Joseph Salapic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93002	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, pursuant to Article 236. I would like to warn the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and ask you to react, the Pupovac representative has already been at the station twice today and in his speech has insulted the HDSSB Representatives' Club, all of us 7 MPs and HDSSB as a political party represented in Parliament because of the badge we wear in accordance with our political and personal will. So I'd like to warn the public and you, Mr. Pupovac, Branimir Glavas is not a Hague indictee, but he's serving time in a prison in Mostar. And the last word on his case should be the decision of the Constitutional Court of Croatia and not your personal assessment that the representative of the HDSSB will put on his suit. I think you have inappropriately compared the Vojislav Seselj case to Branimir Glavas. And for your information, Mr. Glavas did not fight in the territory of the Republic of Croatia but was defending the state borders of the territory of the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War. And it is extremely rude and inappropriate to speak in this way on behalf of your club and compare Seselj with Croatian General Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93003	Thank you very much. My colleague Salapic, if I thought it was necessary to react, I would react. My colleague Pupovac looked back at the badge you're wearing, it wasn't in this sense insulting you, but he did say that you were fighting for certain interests of your political option. And on behalf of the DC club, the New Wave and the People's Party Reformist colleague Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93004	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's because we're the last club to talk in some way I'm going to try to sublime everything that's been said so far. But first of all, I think we should say the basics. Croatia is not just any country, Croatia is the country that has experienced the most terrible aggression since World War II, along with Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatia has defended itself, Croatia has returned its internationally recognised borders and has given its hand to all those people, to all those non-Croatian people, and I primarily think of the Serb population who wanted to stay, to accept Croatia as their country. And that's why I don't think anyone is guilty of a reduced number as the Serbs here say in Croatia. No country after the war, after the crime, after the aggression had the strength to accept and lay hands so quickly. And that's why I think we have and we show both strength and will and we have the right to say that the release of Vojislav Seselj is a temporary victory of international order and justice. In this Parliament and in this country as well as in many other places, the Honored counterpart of The Hague court was seen as a place of world justice that was for victims and citizens, giving at least some fortification that there is justice and that crime is not worth it. However, with this one decision, it is no longer so and it is the most difficult consequence of this scandalous temporary release. The worst is being respected colleagues and colleagues when criminals succeed. The words I won the Hague tribunal right after returning to Belgrade were badly echoed and really defeated the court, humiliated the victims and humiliated all those who believe in international justice. And so I ask you can you just so simply say Vojislav Seselj is a marginal person today, the world has changed, Serbia has changed? I don't think he can because Vojislav Seselj is a marginal person but his crimes are not marginal. And that is why this proposal for a declaration that we have proposed represents one unique position both of this Croatian Parliament and of all those that we represent that the UN court's decision is unprecedented and that it compromises the meaning of international justice in this way. Seselj returned to the public sphere the kind of rhetoric that caused the crimes of the 1990s, which is not naturally acceptable. And for these reasons we warned this Declaration of The Hague institution that they should react and return Vojislav Seselj back to his prison cell. So although marginal he is still dangerous and should not shake his hand because it is too ominous if he shakes his hand and leans his head on what he says. I will only remind myself that Vojislav Seselj is being charged before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia for Crimes Against Humanity. The indictment includes murders in Vukovar, especially 255 people in Ovcara, 6 near Velepromet, near Sarajevo 56 people, Zvornik more than 340 people. He is accused of bringing civilians into camps under inhumane conditions, torture, beating, murder, deportation and forced relocation of tens of thousands of Croats and Muslims and Bosniaks from these areas and parts of Vojvodina and deliberately destroying their homes. According to the indictment, Seselj, as a politician, advocated and promoted the unification of all Serbian countries in a single Serbian state, took part in recruitment, in the formation of his Serb volunteers called Seseljevci. He personally participated in war propaganda, spreading hatred for other ethnic groups, and spurred crimes. The first-degree verdict was scheduled for October 30th last year. It was postponed indefinitely after Danish Judge Harhof left the first-degree council and it was precisely at the request of Vojislav Seselj. In his place he was appointed a new judge who asked for a year to meet the case. The parting council, I will remind it here again, offered its initiative to Seselj that the verdict awaited temporary freedom in Belgrade but under strict conditions, house arrest, police escort, a ban on public appearances, however, Seselj refused. The same decommissioning council renewed its initiative, but this time it reduced the conditions and demanded that it would not affect witnesses and victims. And Seselj, again and again, rejected such an initiative and eventually withdrew from The Hague indictee Seselj and practically did not commit him to anything. Such a decision by the Hague court is completely unusual and represents a precedent, not because someone is temporarily released because such cases were, but because he refused to even show medical records. So all of you who are talking about any tumors here, these are statements without any evidence because the medical records of the Judicial Council didn't get an insight, and it left him on temporary leave. We heard yesterday, the Hague court reacted to his terms and indeed confirmed everything we knew and had information when we decided to draw up this declaration. So our declaration is just meant to in some way stop this mockery of the victims, the world, Vukovar and all those to whom Seselj has been mocking these days because he practically continued where he left off and really just asked the question of when he would move from word to action and whether anyone would stop him, regardless of what is marginal today. It is true that we responded to Shessel’s reaction both to his release and to his words at first as a state very restrained because we really and only expressed dissatisfaction and surprise. Some of our ministers here have joined in showing Seselj as a marginal person, lunatics, patients, declaring the problem to the Serbian internal affairs. However, after the eruption of Seselj's political speech of hatred, it started to go into international reaction, and that's good. The initiative was given by the head of state, joined by the head of diplomacy, the Europarliamentaries and everyone else. And none of the initiatives we launched were too far-fetched and had its own meaning, only the question is whether the International Community or the Hague court will react in this case. The crime Seselj committed is terrible, but even more terrible is that he remains unpunished for now, and for these very reasons, it is good that the Croatian Parliament has shown unity and offered this declaration that our club will absolutely accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93005	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Now we're going to approach the vote. Please establish the quorum. Let's see the score, please. Ninety-nine MPs are present, so we can approach the vote. On a proposal for a declaration from counterpart Nedzad Hodzic, he submitted the amendment, so I would ask Mrs Jadranka Kosor to show herself about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93006	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is a colleague, Hodzic, who has submitted an amendment, so that instead of saying "Muslims", words should be put in place, i.e. to fit in with Bosniaks. As I read the declaration, we also had a dilemma about what we would do, but in our consultations now with colleagues and colleagues from the clubs, I suggest that we accept my colleague Hodzic in part, i.e. that this formulation is now: Muslims-Bosnai, so to put a line on and then accept your amendment but to stay, I will not elaborate now on why, therefore, which is a broader concept, which narrows down etc., but to keep that formulation from the indictment Vojislav Seselj. Here's a suggestion if you accept. Once again, I thank you all for your participation. The place of our gathering was not Seselj but a requirement by the Hague court to call off the decision and warning the Republic of Serbia of its obligations, and the first obligation is to condemn evil.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93007	Comrade Nedzad Hodzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93008	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, I thank you if, on behalf of the promoter, you say you'll change it that way, then I withdraw the amendment in this form as I have set it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93009	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. It will be accepted in the form proposed by the Proposer. We will now approach the vote on the Declaration in connection with the decision of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia on the temporary release of indictees Vojislav Seselj on the loose. Please, let's approach the vote. The vote is over. I find it unanimous with 104 votes for the accepted Declaration in connection with the decision of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia on the temporary release of indictee Vojislav Seselj to freedom along with the accepted amendment. The HDZ Club on this Declaration has also proposed a conclusion that is not yet on the benches, so I will read it. Under 1. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit by 10 December 2014 to the Croatian Assembly a report on the establishment and conduct of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia so that the Croatian Parliament can hold a debate and draw appropriate conclusions by the end of its regular session on 15 December 2014. Please, let's approach the vote. What's the score? I'm guessing the conclusion didn't go through. The vote was 31, with 12 and 59 deputies and deputies against. This concludes this point, so we will move to the point - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 754 We do, but we'll still be working until then. [[Intruder Cain: Do we have a break at 13.30?]] My colleagues and colleagues, please make sure the motionor can explain the law. Please let whoever wants to leave the hall come out so we can keep working and don't talk in the benches. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Regional Development and the EU Funds. You received the reports at the session. Introducing the proposal, Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic will explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93011	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here's the short opening letter on this bill. We've been discussing tax laws for a day and a half or two days, we've been discussing, in fact, you've been discussing the Regional Development Act all day yesterday. There's been a lot of heated discussion. This is kind of the final of these bill proposals, so the tax package and the regional package if I can call it that given these changes in the event schedule for now I'm one here. But we have predicted that this bill should be presented by the Ministry of Finance and, therefore, the Ministry of Regional Development, so it will probably join us, not possibly, but certainly also by counterpart Jaksa Puljiz, Deputy Minister of Regional Development, three hours later. Maybe even before he gets here. I hope the ministers will be able to find it, but here I hope that all of you together will have the understanding that your daily obligations due to this extraordinary situation and the Declaration you just voted we could not fully adjust the rhythm of this Parliament's plenary session. As I said, let the finals of this package of laws be allowed, in the shortest lines then, to say what we are changing, so by proposing a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional or regional self-government. With regard to the provisions relating to the deduction of the existing bill, therefore there are those upper limit rates on how municipalities can even increase income tax by the rates of cuts they set, so cities below 30,000 inhabitants by a rate of up to 10%. At a rate of up to 12%, so over 30,000 pardons to 15%. These are up to 12% to 30,000 inhabitants. What changes so I don't complicate myself too much? So the maximum rate for the city of Zagreb is changing. The city of Zagreb now had a maximum rate of 30%. With this law we are equating the real life that exists in the city of Zagreb, so we are equating it with the existing law and we are changing the maximum cut rate for the city of Zagreb to 18%. As regards consumption tax, which is a relatively significant income of the local self-government unit of local self-government units, therefore the tax on the consumption of alcoholic beverages, beer and non-alcoholic beverages. City decisions differed in terms of payment of that tax. With this law we try to even it out, so we legally prescribe a uniform procedure regarding the deadlines for the submission of forms for... tax on consumption and we bind it, so now it's about deadlines to hand over the monthly VAT application and is paid monthly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, these amendments and additions are further prescribed by the summary submission of the form for all the business premises of the taxpayer if the tax collector is considered to be the IRS where the IRS is doing so, it is still so, and if the competent authority of the municipality or the city of registration continues to submit itself individually. It is such a bill and the Tax Administration, because of all its promotions, we can follow it together and we believe that we will facilitate both the local community and the entrepreneurs themselves and also us to process this tax more easily, that is the reason for this change. Similarly, the local authority for the application of the consumer tax is changed, so the tax is applied to the residence, or headquarters, rather than to the place where the business space is located. It's also part of saying change in the IRS, but I believe that it will make it easier for everyone in common to act only. As far as income tax is concerned, which, if I am not mistaken, we voted yesterday or before 12% of the estimated income tax on savings is at the same time credited to the state budget, regardless of the amount. It is, therefore, prescribed by this law that income tax is based on interest on saving the income of the state budget because the decision is such that, independently of the residence of individual savings, it is still a common income, and that it is then allocated to local self-government units in a way that strengthens the fund... from which the decentralised funds will be offset. Therefore, revenue of around 300 million kuna is expected from this base and will therefore be from the position of income tax from the state budget used to recover income tax after the annual citizens' application in assisted areas. It is done and now from that income tax position and sources of funds were therefore other basics, this is a new source, but now it will be visible, more transparent in the budget. And that's the shift we have in this law. As for the change in the share of income tax if we exclude interest on savings, then the basic changes are such that here in this sub-memory and we call it so-called internally. regular units of local self-government, meaning those not found in some other frameworks. The share in income tax from 56.5 rises to 60, the share of the county from 16 rises to 16.5, the rate for decentralised functions drops by 6%. There's a balancing fund, actually a stronger balance fund by 0.5%, and what's new is foreseen by these amendments and additions to the law, which is so-called. The EU fund. Therefore, part of the income tax allocated to aid and co-financing projects by European Structural and Investment Funds, whose holders are cities, municipalities and counties, i.e. legal persons in their majority ownership or co-ownership and institutions which they are founders of. The way these funds are used will be prescribed specifically by the Ministry of Regional Development. I believe there will be a lot of debate about this, so when counterpart Puljiz or Minister Grcic joins in, I believe he will be able to give further reasons. The aim, therefore, is, as the objective and the entire budget is to transfer development and investment as much as possible to EU funds, to the quality within these EU funds. On that side, we need a national component. And I say if this fund that should be means 1.5% of the total income means more than 150 million kunas will be envisaged as a national component for co-financing of these projects, which will therefore be approved by the EU. And the bearers of them will be as I said to the municipalities, cities and counties and legal persons owned by them. I said quotas for so-called. ordinary units of local self-government, followed by the City of Zagreb, as it has the status of city and county, and then the figures are added up, so I don't owe too much. What is the change in the units of local and regional self-government that had a special status in the distribution of income income from income tax and had a 90% share now decreases to 88% and 12% to compensate the county for one significant part. These are units that are therefore classified and now have a special status according to a package of laws that we have so-called. assisted areas of the first and second group of units of local self-government whose development index does not exceed 75%. Their share of income tax will be 88%. In the areas of municipalities, or cities on the island, these changes change a slightly more significant distribution of income tax compared to the current distribution. The non-intentional share, therefore in the municipality's income, increases from 56.5 to 60%, the county's share from 16 to 16.5%, and decentralised from 12 to 6. So, on that side, it doesn't change, but what changes is the share that the municipalities, or cities on the islands, have set out to finance capital projects for the interests and development of the island. We raise that share to 16%. But so far, cities and municipalities could use only the funds collected in their area, so in the island area, and the novelty now is that these changes and additions from the amount allocated to aid and to finance a capital project of interest for the development of the island create a special fund. As a position in the financial plan of the competent ministry, so the Ministry of Regional Development, from which I say under the same model, projects of greater importance will be funded, and which is thus intended mainly to be a national component for EU funds. The income tax as I said we brought in a day in which, objectively given the change in rate, the income of local self-government units will fall. Therefore, one set of compensatory measures is provided for since the change in the share of concessions from changes in the Law on the municipal economy, which is the next point of this day's work on which it would not owe too much. What concerns this law is a change in the share of real estate taxes. So, the existing law is this relationship 60:40 in favour of local self-government units, 60% of these incomes go into the budgets of local self-government units. With this bill we propose that this change ratio at 80:20, so 80% would end in the budgets of units of local self-government, 20% of the state and the financial effect we expect from it, I say on the basis of the existing property tax based on existing traffic and our projections for next year is 230 million more for the budgets of local self-government units. Realising that it is a very big change, at least for one set of units of local self-government, it was a lot of debate yesterday in favour of the law, he will probably also be aware today that certain units do not, therefore, primarily realise from areas of special state concern and status, which had the status of mountainous and mountainous areas do not now realise their status under the new Law on Supported Areas and the Index of Development that will not be such, in fact, will not allow them the same incomes as they have made possible by previous laws. So we predicted that for these units, we would achieve so-called. transitional aid within a period of 3 years which will be based, in fact, on their 2013 incomes. Therefore, a model of transitional support was developed in such a way as to calculate the total aid provided by the State to those units in 2013, and then a certain indexation is made depending on the degree of development of a single unit of local self-government. So that those units of local self-government that are between 75 and 100% of the development index have the right to two-thirds of the aid they have just received from the state budget, I apologize, received overall from the national budget in 2013. Thus, a special sliding descending scale ends then in the third year where it is supported by local self-government units. So, this is a proposal that, through the Budgeting Act, we're going to implement that this change that we're aware of is relatively and hastily, that it's not so sudden, but that the new structure, so based on the Development Index, has a transitional period of three years and that we help those smaller or weaker in the first and second years and that those stronger ones were mentioned yesterday by these municipalities so that I don't repeat it, that this fall is different. Here's what would be the basics of this proposal. I say, I believe, and I hope that in the afternoon part of the debate, I will be joined by my colleague, Puljiz, or by his personal minister, and that he, too, will be able to answer your questions together, possibly inconceivable about this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your attention during my opening presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93012	Thank you. Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93013	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, you've told us so nicely that nothing happens to changes in the financing of local self-government, and you know, in the end, that it's about big changes and that it's about something that we don't really know what's going to happen. This Article 5, i.e. the addition of Article 43a to the existing law, has one major issue of application in 2015, so that is the part that all decisions on local self-government relating to taxes for the following year must be made by 15.12. And we are today making budgets on local self-government without the direction of the competent ministry, without the government's instructions, meaning we are making something very abstract and we do not know what is waiting for us in 2015 so that this article should, in my opinion, be an extremely long period of time for 2015, i.e. to see after a few months what is actually going to happen with the local budgets and that in the coming year, at least 30.6 may be possible for some changes to the decision on local taxes. Try to think about it a little bit. And as for real estate tax 80:20 so far 60:40, and we forgot that VAT on real estate is being introduced, so the real estate market will be even more, and in the end it would be fair and the office to then local self-government part of that VAT that is now being introduced to the traffic of real estate will also give local self-government, but not only shows us how well we are going to pass now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93014	Igor Radjenovic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93015	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So as for the first part of your replica of colleagues, if we were here with deadlines, I say a good part, a series of these bill proposals from the part that was part of the Ministry of Finance was aimed at practically and administration or the introduction of better rules on how to, and especially when the tax administration is involved, collects this tax to be more effective in collecting that tax, and I say that since it is the income of local self-government units, I think it is their interest, to make it simpler for us, and I say that we would have made these deadlines more effective considering, we wrote a law for the future. Given that I acknowledge this argument of yours, that we are relatively close to the end of the year and around these aspects, I say that these regulations must be passed once a year so that they do not change and be more transparent and simple. We can also consider this amendment if you formulate it, and let's think about ourselves if it's done either by the club or by a committee or by some club of representatives. It seems quite reasonable to me to move that deadline for this year or to move it to the middle of next year, so that from then on. I think that sounds reasonable. As far as real estate tax is concerned, the question is now who can't be helped, who can't, where real estate is being trafficked, you know that because of the economic crisis, the traffic of real estate has died and that it is far below the levels which are objective for Croatia and which we may have expected by entering the EU. He's now at the level of 260 million kuna if we're talking, this is an increase of 20 million, now he's at about a billion kuna. We therefore expect this to be a better tax in the future, better income from local self-government units. The only thing about VAT, so it's not taxed on... real estate, it's the same, it's just new real estate where the property comes in and what's on that side is not 5%, it's 25%, so it's... in real estate tax, for old real estate it's the same tax of 5% and it's divided into 80:20.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93016	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93017	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, it's very strange that you didn't calculate the necessary funds in a plus and minus as you suggest legal solutions. So, you're proposing this bill to take 8% of the income tax to local self-government units, while paying them back 4. So if it were some kind of net 4%, it's about 500 million kuna. Since those tax changes to the Income Tax Act have been taken already 2 billion kunas, the question is then how substitutive is the measure, whether or not. But there's something going on here that's very strange. Instead of going towards decentralisation, we are centralizing with this bill because what was decentralised to local self-government units, we are now reducing those funds by 50%, from 12 to 6%. And we're practically reducing the ability of local self-government units to make direct decisions because they don't know what kind of minimum standards the government will make in the second or third month, first of all, as far as basic education is concerned. The government can lower those standards. Should this decision have been changed just to solve the problem with the city of Zagreb? Another thing, consumption tax, yes, if you leave a provision like this, then you have to put the one who has a seat in Rijeka, and as I know, in the Queen, Opatija, Crikvenica has catering facilities, that it must send these units local self-government a report on the monthly amount of their calculation, and as far as sales tax on real estate, this is a measure that will favour only those who are rich at the moment. Local self-government units don't have that much real estate traffic, and they don't have any significant income traffic from real estate. So this is one measure that's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93018	Thank you. Igor Radjenovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93019	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Yes, with one piece of the replica I agree with although generally if, and it can also serve as an introduction to the debate and on committees where I defend this bill I was speaking the same, it's only about the second redistribution. Is this what you're saying, we're decentralised, we're dropping, what can happen, if it's going to go down, whether or not, whether or not. And now income tax, 100%, so eventually ends up in the budgets of local self-government units. Is it good for income tax to be the most significant income of local self-government units in certain units, for example, in the city of Zagreb is almost three quarters of income, it is now a question for one entirely different debate and for perhaps one broader package of laws, or we still have to go towards these other taxpayers, which was... the desire and purpose of the bill coming from this ministry, and I believe that at some point we will all together make a decision on the property tax which will be the highest income of the local self-government units, and there is practically operational and we will join the EU and the market in which we live and how we do. But like I said, it eventually ends up in local self-government units. This is just one redistribution for which I can truly and respect the arguments of fear, but we must believe that the ministry, the competent ministry of the Regional Development Fund on that side, will prescribe and actually prescribe through some other... laws the best and most fair way to distribute the said income. I think that the fund we set up, so the fund... for these decentralised functions you spoke of exists and is stronger with half a percent, the funds are higher, interest on savings will also, therefore income from income, strengthen that income, and I think that a good story of this EU fund, which is actually with relatively significant resources, exists and that the units of local self-government that relatively large or very large number of local self-government units compete with each other, and that from that side of the EU funds come to a larger scale and fill their budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93020	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93021	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, you said this was the finale of this package. I would say this is the sad finale of this package of kindness according to, conditionally speaking, to the units of local self-government, not to say something more difficult, that it was a nail in a coffin. Of course, it is the key cause of this change in income tax that fellow Shucker spoke of where the preschool education will be at stake, everything that is characteristic of local self-government units in these rural areas. So that's part of it, and now there's a variety of compensatory measures that I can't even make up for. That's exactly what we're talking about, and you were even talking about in that part and the basis of the concession. I made it very clear yesterday that in article 44, it is offered to exploit... construction material in the area, I am talking about my county where it simply was the Park Mura-Drava, therefore, was... a reservation. No, it's just... So there's no speech. Secondly, then the ultimate goal is said to be to draw as much funding from European funds as possible. So we have prepared projects so much that we could now, but there's no rural development, there's no, there's just thesis at the end of what I said yesterday, it's taken where there is, and there's a part of something that's not there. Here, there's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93022	Igor Radjenovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93023	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here I was, in the introduction, saying, it was 100% of the income tax that ended up in units of local self-government and now it's going to end up 100% in units of local self-government. The job is... and there is always some number, we need to agree how... these funds, whether the way these joint funds were distributed so far was fair or not whether those rates were good or not I say a good part of the debate was conducted yesterday and the subject of some other laws and we can talk about it and we still need to change from year to year and I don't see this problem on the very subject of the development index. She is also personally interesting to me and I think that she must be a permanent subject of this House and that the state must constantly worry about how the units of local self-government finance and that they must ultimately be more decentralised than they are. But I had another point on your replica I can't at this time 100%, yeah, it's about the means it says it's taken to someone, and it's given somewhere else, and it's another thesis. Come on, ladies and gentlemen, let's see the income tax we've relieved our citizens of a certain tax yoke that is quite large especially on these middle wages. We've talked a lot about it. So nobody gets taken here, local self-government units will have a slightly weaker income, the state budget is more or less relevant, will return all income tax revenue collected in local self-government units but who will have benefits. They will have citizens from these units of local self-government means themselves citizens of all of you who are mayors, mayors, etc. I'll keep that money in my pocket. It does not go for some state spending does not go for some international funds going to those same citizens who will then probably with some more money in their pocket and encourage the economy of those units and improve the way of life in local self-government units themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93024	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93025	Mr. Radjenovic said that this package of laws provides for compensatory measures to compensate local and regional self-government for what was taken from them through changes in income taxation. You announced that during the debate here your colleagues from regional development, unfortunately no one was here yesterday when we discussed their proposal for regional development, and I have just warned that I think inter-resor coordination on this subject has failed. But maybe I was wrong and you can deny me and answer me or deliver the following. I'm sure if you've inter-recitally coordinated these compensatory measures that extend to several laws that you certainly know the 2015 projection and comparison with 2014. How much income in 2015.s of income tax and these compensatory measures will now not be listed individually from the original or own taxes of the municipality, cities and counties and the share in common taxes will be achieved by municipalities, cities, county and comparison with 2014. Therefore, the very display of the results figures in 2014 and the foreseeable revenue from the title of the compensation measures in 2015 can see whether the compensatory measures are sufficient to compensate for what once changed the income tax. If such a calculation exists please give it to us representatives because without it we cannot be sure that your claims about compensatory measures are correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93026	Igor Radjenovic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93027	Thank you, Mr. Lesar. I don't agree with your thesis that inter-resor coordination failed. She didn't schedule us for a really long time, and even too long if I may say so. It was a desire for this law to come a little earlier but we've been weighing until the last minute so it's part of the tax package and we can discuss it before the regional and we can actually see it all together, to come together to the table and sort of put it together on committees that might be discussing it a little longer or at a plenary session, but unfortunately we haven't been able to put the laws together, and you can see that the dynamics of the plenary session sometimes drag it to the other side. We about the impact of these laws have projections, this we're going to quite precisely calculate about the share it's no problem if you know what the total income is. The problem is that the total income around income tax you have projections, you can't do it as precisely as you... did. We've done these calculations for our own, where some of the numbers are here, we've shared some with the parent board of finance, I don't see any reason not to give it to all the committees, one part of the information we've given your club today, a good part of the information and all the other clubs. It's a little bit of a technical burden on us, but we're giving them away. Mostly we have projections, so when you still move income from one group to another we at the state level unfortunately within our own bases we can't precisely determine. We have to estimate the total drop and it's not a secret. We talked about income tax would be 2 billion 100, if we were to charge a billion 800 income from the savings tax, and this second in these projections we distributed the corresponding share of the tax on the income of municipalities, cities and counties from 2013 and we have this projection. I say we've shared it with the Finance Committee and that assessment is plus minus 5% of what's going to happen because you can't answer it precisely given the changes in the economic situation. Some of the municipalities here are just to finish up Madam Vice President, but given those class changes we can't technically hit, but plus minus 5% we have a projection, we gave it to the Finance Committee, we can give it to all the MPs. For each individual municipality for each individual city, we have that projection along with other compensatory measures and we have that. I don't know why we haven't shared it so far is quite complicated, it's done in an excel table that's 39 pages pretty big. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93028	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'll just open the debate, and we'll continue the debate after the break at 3:00. First in line of the IDS club. It's 13,29 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93029	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the IDS and Furia Radina Club, a respected colleague, Valter Boljunčić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93030	Good afternoon, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, in front of us one in a series of laws like someone said, laws that are joined together as vessels with the Income, Regional Development Act and mountainous mountainous areas, real estate and all other laws. The essence of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, in this proposal, is that it is stated to go to some extent to try to mitigate the blow that the local community will feel with a change in income tax, i.e. with more than 2 billion kuna, which will be less blended into local community budgets. Parts, the central part of this is a different income tax schedule and it mainly revolves around it, but we have some other things like savings interest tax, but we cannot treat savings tax as one of the measures that will help the local community because this is a proposal to go to the state budget and to serve exclusively for the return of overpaid income tax by new, therefore underdeveloped areas or assisted areas. Then we have a proposal on real estate tax that we heard should bring in 200 million, but let's not forget the following that the Real estate tax proposal says that the first real estate on the property will pay a 25% VAT instead of a 5% turnover tax, and VAT goes completely into the state budget and that bill said in its explanation that this means 70 million kuna loss for the local community. In this way, I believe that the estimated return of funds to the local community will not be as said because part of it goes to the state, and in addition, the price will definitely rise when you put some tax instead of 5, 25% even though it's only land, the price will definitely rise, and in today's situation a much higher supply of real estate on the market than buying power, the question to which it will be able to buy. The next measure, therefore, is a central measure which is thought to be put in place, so a different distribution of the part of the income tax that will remain. But first, let's say this, so if you have two billion kunas taken from the local community for the needs of the population and for that part the population's income is increased with the intention of going to increase consumption and consumption is 25% VAT, which means that the state took about 400 million kuna from this work here increased by VAT. Furthermore, if we talk about what you said about areas that do not fall into special care, the current distribution of income tax was next, so 56.5% was city or municipality, 15.5% was county and 12% was decentralised. According to the new city and municipalities, it would gain more 3.5%, so 60 percent more, so 16 percent, but the decentralised funds would decrease from 12 to 6. When the part given to cities is summed up, 4% comes and what was taken from decentralised funds is 6%. Therefore, and in this new tax, the distribution of income tax continues to retain 2% more than it was before and instead of going towards decentralisation, the state now centralises even more funds in its capacity because 2% is the amount of income tax left at its disposal. Furthermore, the law is presented in a way to mitigate the impact that will arise with a lack of income tax money. But even though you have reduced income tax, if you have a certain amount of money you can interpret it however you want, you have a lower amount of money, it can only mean that you will keep some cities, municipalities that succeed somewhat after this as you said the minimum level of decentralisation, so the standards in school, that you will take back what was before up to 12% and that you will give to someone else. So it's about the fact that there's just a reduced amount of money being redistributed. It definitely does not go in favour of the citizens or goes in favour of decentralisation, it is centralisation where now every city, municipality or county will have to come to the ministry and ask for minimum money to be able to maintain education, fire, social services, etc. What I should certainly see is that there is finally real funds for decentralisation, to come to the local community having more resources, for more duties that I can perform. In that sense, our club will hand over two amendments. One part will refer to a communal fee where it will be asked to continue the crisis so that some of the funds from the municipal fee can also be used as original income, therefore not for a purpose but only for the duration of the crisis or while we are in recession, after which it makes no sense because this fee is intended for both our cities and for the increase of infrastructure. I think it's a key issue that we still have to start when we talk about the funds of the local community, the central state and the decentralisation required. That's the question that during this debate about how to compensate the funds and so on not to say that we're spinning around like a cat about hot porridge, I think we should finally put on a story about VAT. The VAT is only a state budget for now, 25%, and our proposal will be that 5% of VAT goes to the local community and 95% goes to the state. When we talk about 5%, it's not 5% local and 20% state, it's 5% 25%, so 1.25% would go from this 25%, 1.25 local community, 23.75. If you look at the budget of VAT is somewhere around 40 billion kuna, 5% is exactly 2 billion kuna, so the local community has lost this income tax money. As you said that money is not taken to anyone, that money goes into the pockets of our citizens and that money will only allow the local community in the right sense of decentralisation to enable and use those basic needs that citizens require of their local community from preschool education, additional things in primary school education, so there are also some things that unfortunately cities still have to pay for, learning foreign languages, information, a whole day's stay. It's about social care, it's about firefighters, health care, etc. Therefore, I consider as you once said that no one takes anything from anyone and that the local community should bear the burden. I don't see why and the state wouldn't give up saying only 5% of the VAT cut, so that's 1.25 in that amount of 25% of VAT. That's exactly 2 billion kuna. That would be the right direction to decentralisation. And that way you could see which, because here you're constantly talking about the need to reform the local community. Of course, when it comes to the question of our own city, the municipalities, then we all think he should stay. So when the local community was disbursed, but also with duties, it would be seen exactly who was capable and who was spending it on the development of his city and who couldn't manage it in any way. So, in terms of decentralisation, we're going to put up with the amendment where we're looking for that part of the VAT to stay. Of course, we are ready to accept other duties that go with an increase in the amount of money available in the financing of the local community. I think it was seen that in a whole series when the local community therefore has money and duties to do it better than building permits and a whole series of other things that it needs. Because citizens at the first moment when something doesn't work because it's always the local community first in line to see if the problem can be solved there or not. So it would be right for me and it would be the money of citizens like you said that was earned in a particular area to keep 5% of VAT to the local community. That would be decentralisation, that would be something just for our citizens. It means this to you, when you go shopping, if you've spent 100 kunas, the only kuna to stay in the local community. 1 kuna of 100. Just so we know what measures this is about. It's not some kind of person who knows the amount that could be, and with that 1 kuna, citizens would certainly get much better and care and all the other things they need for local communities. In terms of this, I hope that the compensation measures will be found because subtracting someone in his already tense budget... that this will be a loss of 10 to 15%, so let urban and regional budgets without it amounting to money, it will simply work hard without raising other prices or without removing something to reach...... Yeah... without abolishing any services that citizens can now get in the local community. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The desire to all local communities, all mayors, municipalities, etc. put in the same basket and talk about how that money is spent 30%, etc., it just doesn't stand. Everyone has a budget, a review every year looks and there's no problem in seeing who's doing business in accordance with the law, who's purposely spending money, who's not spending it well and where it could be more achieved. I think in this coming out of the crisis that local communities take some money where they're going to have to go to the ministry every time because these 6% that's going to stay will definitely not be enough to cover decentralised functions, so they're going to have to keep looking for it and then the state as they take the money will have to take the role of the guilty person whether something's done right or not. So my conclusion with regard to this law is that we are still waiting for the right compensatory measures, we are ready and most of the cities, especially Istria and my city Pula, have so far taken a significant burden to get out of the crisis, as I said we spend 10.8% on wages, and up to 20% is possible. Since 2008 it has been reduced by 25% of the number of employees. As far as European funds are concerned, I think it is well known that Istra is a front for attracting funds from European funds. The industry here thank God still somehow manages to work with us, but the real purpose of decentralisation is to see the VAT must remain part of the local community. This summer we had over 7 billion euros, so traffic, touristic, Istria participates with 30%, when you turn into kunas and take VAT from Istria alone to... 3 billion kunas went to the state register without talking about all the other donations that are still being given. Here I hope you try... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 7 billion euros is the income of tourism as far as I know it, and 3 billion kunas I said. And of course we don't know how far it's gone because my questions about how much money it's leaving Istria in the direction of excise duty, VAT, gasoline, and so we get the answer that it can't be given. And just maybe another technical remark, another amendment. In this law on the financing of units when it comes to drinking tax, I think with this application that says you should apply in the place where it's registered and tax is paid where it's done, there's going to be unnecessary red tape. Someone who is from Zagreb and has to report in Pula to Zagreb to then inform Pula so Pula can charge or vice versa, has companies from Istria that.... I think it's best for everyone to make an application where his place is located, so as it has been so far, that the application is done by the place where the job is done, not by the place of registration, because article 34 says the tax is paid where the traffic is done. Here's hoping you'll respect the compensation measures because these are simply not enough for the local community to function further as it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93031	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Greek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93032	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Just a few reviews, so you don't stay in the air of some spoken thesis and words. I think there's a few things I need to explain. I see there's a misunderstanding about reducing the decentralised function from 12 to 6%. As you know, decentralised functions are partly financed directly, and mostly indirectly, which means through the Balance Fund. So, the 12-to-6% reduction I already explained yesterday to my colleague here at Shuker. It is a technical procedure that should have eliminated a major problem in the segment with units that have been incometing more through this direct income in earlier years than the standard of decentralised functions required in terms of funding. What happened later? These cases came to trial because the state was looking for its back in the fund so it didn't work, in court for these reasons or those reasons, I'm not going to get into it. Here is the former finance minister and current finance minister who knows these problems very well. We have technically eliminated the possibility of this happening more because we have reduced the direct stakes in decentralised functions, but we have therefore provided in the fund enough resources to cover everything within existing standards, therefore not reduced but existing standards, and it must be quite clear. Where did we get the funds? So 6% less is cca 600 million kuna less. Of these 600 million kunas, the less half was this return that did not take place in the budget. So 300 million has already been solved, and the other 300 million has been solved through the insertion, so the income from interest tax is approximately 300 million and thus all compensated plus 60 million estimated by 0.5% for decentralised functions. Therefore, we have as much as 60 million per bill as that cost in 2013 as the base year for projection. When we look at it in this context, therefore, no kuna responsiblely argues will be lacking for decentralised functions, nor will it be passed on to anyone else. Another thing from the Compensation Fund was the amount of between 300 million kuna and 400 million kuna per year depending on how much that amount was estimated, i.e. the actual return to our residents, citizens who had an additional relief in areas of special state care, mountain-mounted etc. areas. So that's what's out of the Alignment Fund before. The amount is now also set aside from that segment, but is more closely linked to this interest income, which is about the same expected amount of compensation. So I'm asking you to take care of the fact that we've really thought about every kuna and I repeat what I said yesterday. The whole mathematics in that part actually does not derail local self-government units, but it also achieves more support in both the number of units and the money than it was before. Of course, I'm not talking about this loss that's a direct loss from a salary tax that's only partially compensated in this way, but that's what we agreed. I hope that we have agreed that the burden of this will be borne by part of the local self-government unit, and part of the state in about the following way. The increase in the share in income tax of local self-government units from 56.5% to 60% is a circulation of 400 million. The increase in county shares from 16 to 16 and a half is 60 million. There's this part that applies to, so 300 million interest taxes. There are revenues from an increased share in real estate tax. The concessions will still be considered, so this has not yet been introduced into this law, but will certainly be part of the compensatory measures. Resuscitation of the municipal fee, better said flexibility in the application of the municipal fee is also one of the compensatory measures. And what will come to the agenda very quickly is also a discussion on the water compensation that we also want to make more flexible and reduce the necessary share of local self-government units in financing water sector capital projects. And that's one of the essential measures that we're going to explain very quickly and propose here to the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93033	Thank you. We have one replica, dear Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93034	Well, look, I'm a mathematician, I'm not a financier. You can't convince me that if you cut something by two billion, that what's left of it will get you more. That's physically impossible. The interest tax on savings says that it will go directly to the return of the overpaid tax. So that part, then, we can't take 300 million for decentralised funds, because it says it's going to go back to the overpaid tax. What you said about local units getting 400 million more like that. They won't get any more, only from those decentralised ones will now transfer that part, but they'll all be losing two billion kunas in the Sumarum. So that's one fact. Another thing about decentralised means if local communities have now received more funding then we can ask ourselves how it is possible when we know what level education is at. So it says here in the law that everything is going to go back to what's above the minimum, and what kind of school is it I think that by adopting the Science Strategy, education should be a much bigger scale. So there should be more teachers and smaller classes and new schools, etc. But of course, it's not now that anyone knows what they're doing when there's no money, it's just that we can't go from a reduced amount to all of them getting more. So this part of the money that's going to get three and a half percent more and this part of the money that's been taken out of 6%. And what you were going to go into 6% this way can't because you're going to return the interest. I'm aware that we have to, state and local community to bear a burden in crisis and that's definitely a fact. But I'm saying, let's try to see that part, other than that, the state doesn't lose. Because if you said before, your predecessor said that the whole income tax is given back to the citizens, and then the state is now giving nothing new, but has taken part of the potential VAT. So, I think we're still trying to see the potential for some more compensation measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93035	Thank you. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93036	So math is very exact. So 300 million is a new income from interest, I stress. And 300 million what the city of Zagreb will now tell us openly did not return to the budget and leave itself decentralised funds above the standards that the city of Zagreb belongs to. Therefore, 600 million direct new income in this way covering 600 million less reductions from 12 to 6%. I think math is very clear, I don't want to add any more. And I'm not talking, so you're talking about VAT. Okay. This is a legitimate idea, but you must immediately say if we give two billion kunas to local self-government in this way, then tell me, suggest immediately as an amendment from which items you will remove these two billion from the expenditure side of the proposed budget for 2015. Well, that's a clean deficit. So it's just a good idea from some global point of view in some good times when there's money, and when there's no money, it's inconclusive to my people. This is some bypass, so these are situations where some new taxes that make some new revenues are directed towards local units, we correct some illogicalities and misunderstandings in the system and we are trying and something else from the state level to transfer you, flexibilize the communal fee, flexibilize the water fee tomorrow and ask for some other solutions with concession fees, revenues from them, etc. And so get somewhere up to a billion kunas from these billions and 800. That's our goal. Therefore, we say very openly a billion can be compensated and those 800 additional ones should remain a burden of local and regional self-government units. And just to say, there are some other benefits for the counties that are very visible, but I obviously don't have time, I'll try to explain it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93037	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, the respected representative Slavko Linic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93038	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. After intensive debates during yesterday and the day before the package of laws concerning tax laws and regionals, we now have essentially I would say the crown of the law concerning units of local self-government. And the law that was supposed to solve the problems of previous laws deepens them for just a few reasons. It's unfortunate that two ministries worked on this bill and we could get a proposal like this. What does the proposal of the Law on the financing of local self-government units tell us? The first thing he's trying to do is send us a message that the government is dealing with the City of Zagreb. Now we're wondering if it's acceptable for the central government to deal with the capital? The first calculation is to remove the cut from 30 to 12 and take the funds, and the second is that the decentralised funds are being reduced due to the negative behaviour of the City of Zagreb. So imagine in the City of Zagreb, which is one unit of local self-government, 560 units of local self-government are punished. So the government is dealing with the capital and the government in the capital. And the backbone of these proposals is how to simply calculate with a likely unacceptable power in the City of Zagreb. We don't care what the consequences will be, how much money is invested, how much will be paid next year and what it all means. The biggest tragedy is when 560 units of local self-government are punished because the City of Zagreb has not returned a surplus of decentralised funds. Which made the judiciary a strange decision, so instead of seeing if we're going to change the existing law where we're going to strengthen the obligation to return surplus funds or vice versa, see what happened in the judiciary, no, we think the judiciary was incorrect and now we're going to punish 560 units of local self-government. It's really scary when we show that this is how we're going to behave through this assembly. But it's another important thing that shows this law, which is that we don't respect the local environments and re-centralize the funds. You, when in mass, observe how much the participation of cities, counties and decentralised according to this proposal is less than under the old law, less than 2.5%. Why? Because we want to simply manage from the state level. We're against the local self-government unit. We estimate that they are unprofessional, unskilled and that we need them not to change the Law on territorial structure but to change tax laws. A very ugly message, a very ugly message. We're saying that in the future you won't be getting funds to upgrade, and here I mean education, social, health care, culture, no, you won't get from your income tax. That'll give you state. To whom, how, in what way? That'll give you state. Why? Well, because they're not even clear rules about what minimum standards are. Therefore, we return to centralization, retake and impoverish units of local self-government. Is it possible in 2014 we are proposing such laws and are simply trying to send a message in this way that the coalition government is not in favour of decentralisation? That the coalition government is for centralization? And unfortunately for the return of the money that belonged to the local self-government units until yesterday. Yeah, those are very, very ugly messages from these laws. And all of them, including myself, who were expecting a professional solution because the two ministries worked on it, so if we had already decided to leave the citizens two billion and 100 thousand kunas by the estimates they wrote in the bill, then it was to expect some redistribution in participation, means through the Finance Act, and that we could simply resolve the relationship between local self-government, regional self-government and state. Only through this law. No, we have been listening for three days to the story of the Deputy Prime Minister talking about compensatory measures, and the backbone of the funding of local self-government units is at least in this part the Law on the financing of local self-government and participation in common taxes. Just sort it out, and we don't need any stories about compensatory measures. Well, then we're listening to water compensation, communal compensation, what else have we heard about real estate traffic now so I don't even speak concessions. Why complicate the matter, why show the matter completely unclear, intransparent when only the changes in the figures in this law could solve the issue of the relationship between the central government and local and regional authorities, only through these percentages. Because that shows the profession, that shows the knowledge. On the other hand, when I observe this law and the one that follows what we're trying to see is that at a local level we're going to stop every kind of investment, every sight. The dedicated funds for investments especially in the municipal system will be transferred to the upgrade, there will be no money in the upgrade. We have to finance schools and kindergartens and health care. What are we going to do? Consumer society, no more local development. This shows just these two examples, is money going to be missing to maintain a minimum standard of education, health and social policy, that it will be missing, we will spend the money that is intended for investment. And what's our new job, which is our GDP growth investment. With these two laws we show that at local level there will be far less. But then I ask the Minister of Finance again to tell you what the data is about how payment deadlines are and whether the discipline in the units of local self-government is about paying obligations, especially in terms of maintenance and investment in cities. They don't pay in time, it's indiscipline, they don't have enough resources, they already have an overrun. What will this law mean? Further increase in liquidity and this from the state level is local and regional authorities are state authorities. All this will endanger the system and efficiency of the economy. That is why the law, which the two ministries developed, rather than simply resolving the relationship between the state and the local environments, has only now complicated them. Therefore, a law that really cannot be accepted. However, with all the animosities that the government can have towards the City Association, the county association could still appreciate that there are certain debates, though among these people there are knowledge, expertise and understanding, but apparently the government does not want to communicate with anyone. They have their calculations, they have their methods and beautiful fairy tales of compensatory measures. The truth isn't brought, it's going to be brought in, or it's brought in, part of it, so we're going to be trying to figure out if it's 100 million up or down. But not only to be critical, can this law really simply be changed so that our club has also proposed an amendment to show how professionally the problem of uniting local and regional self-government can be solved. Therefore, we have made it very clear that the missing funds for the functioning of the upgrade in local self-government units can also be used for profit tax for the reason that this profit tax is charged to local self-government units only it is difficult to distribute according to company headquarters. But that tax can therefore be used to finance the settlement fund because it means to transfer it with the richer ones to the poorer ones who need it. And then the alignment fund has its real function. Well, my people aren't a settlement fund that the state finances minimum standards, the settlement fund is that it's given to local self-government units that don't have enough fiscal capacity. We're completely confused. Now the Vice-President of the Government says the Fund of Harmony will serve to take Zagreb because we do not know how to write it by law and then we decide how much we will give to Split, Rijeka and Dubrovnik, we central government which is not her job. The settlement fund does not serve this, the settlement fund serves to finance those who do not have sufficient fiscal capacity. And that's why it took a profit tax to fund the fund from there. The EU project from profit tax is also financed. Also, projects that will be based on joint projects of the island, we also propose a mountain cotter if they are able to finance them together and that part can be financed from the profit tax. And we leave the income tax for the means of purpose and they are primarily upgrades. So that's why we put in our profit tax and went on very clear terms. The city and the municipality 70% income tax, the county 18% and the decentralised funds 12%, that's 100%. At that time, income tax is used to finance upgrades in local self - government units, for upgrades. What we have only changed and what we think is necessary is special municipalities on the islands, Gorski kotar, whether or not mountain-mounted where we think they should be left 88%, 12% for counties, and not decentralised dishes would be covered from the settlement fund. Yes, these are very simple solutions and these are approximately very clear our messages. We even believe that the City of Zagreb should be given 88%, it should be given 12% but should be taken away if it has covered minimum standards. And there should be, if there is a law to be completed, not to punish 560 other units at the expense of the City of Zagreb. And of course, in point 13, we also added in point 13 a text that is very clear, that the profit tax, as a common killing in the state, is also used in part to finance aid for balancing decentralised functions, aid for projects of subsidisation and funding of European Structural and Investment Funds as a share to help finance capital projects of interest for the development of the island and Gorski Kotar. In this way, we tried to show that you don't need a story about compensatory measures, that only by redistributing total incomes can you more evenly allocate the burden of losing 2.1 billion funds and that you also don't need all the burden or most of the burdens to fall on local self-government units. Just for the record, in the total tax revenue of the state, then the central government is 90%, the local self-government is 10%. So if we are also talking about some even burden, any burden on local authorities over 10% of total tax revenues is unacceptable and that is why, with such a proposal, we think that a fair division of the burden of reducing the state's income is 2.1 billion. If our amendment is accepted, we will uphold the law, if not, we will be against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93039	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First esteemed Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93040	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Linic, with most of your debates I can agree with, but I would try to detect where the problem is. Someone liked to say we're going to raise salaries to Croatian citizens, but at that point he didn't think about where he was going to do it, and then when she started slowly, quietly, then the louder and louder shouting from the units of local self-government, then there was a panic. And then you do what you do. The explanation of the necessary means in this law makes it clear that the government does not know what it will do. It doesn't say anywhere, not in the balancing fund or in other positions, for pensions from where the money comes from. Therefore, the government can say that for decentralised funds for the standard in school, it allocates so much and so much money based on its decision and it will write that amount in the budget position. It doesn't even have to be written that it's a profit tax because then the government has the right to create a budget as it pleases. But in this way, you take about 6% or 720 million just because you cannot discipline the city of Zagreb is ridiculous. The second thing, the government doesn't know how much it's going to disrupt the liquidity of local self-government units because all this funding from these decentralised assets, for these decentralised functions, comes into continuity. Local self-government units can pay, and everyone knows that the government has to allocate more than 2 billion for salaries and over 3 billion for pensions between 5 and 18 a month. So, at that point, she's certainly not going to send in there until 20th, or a lack of decentralised functions, and this bad liquidity unit of local self-government is going to extend, and then she's going to want to solve the problem of indifference in principle is being torn down by the one who's saying it's supposed to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93041	The replica matches, the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93042	I agree with my colleague Shucker, who will have all the negative consequences of this bill, but I would also add, what I am afraid of is not only a liquidity disturbance problem, but it will simply be greater deficits at the end of the year, and local self-government units are also the central deficits, i.e. the total state. So we're really going to have bigger deficits. Why would I think that? So all the savings stories, we need to know, collective bargaining, six months, I don't believe anyone in local self-government units can have a major impact on wage cuts or I'd say firing people. There will be a conflict that will take place as I first push all administrative functions back to the state, so let them deal with it. And the third, too, any change in the price of utility services or the price of a kindergarten hot meal or I don't know what, it'll last, it doesn't go overnight. So what I expect from one side of the deficit of the total state, but on the other hand, simple work in 2015, instead of development projects, will be to work on how to economically maintain the systems that we have formed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93043	The second line will be presented by the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93044	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Linic, I also agree with your debate. I also said that when discussing amendments to the Income Tax Act. Namely, when the proposed Law on the financing of local self-government as proposed in this text is with citizens who will profit from this change, I was saying it then and now you have confirmed it, the state budget will also profit. On the one hand, because the country's share rate is increasing from 15.5 to 17.5, that's 2%, so somewhere around 250 million kuna. When income from interest taxes is added to that, here it's said somewhere around 320 million kuna, I think it's more, it would be good, given the savings of Croatian citizens about 170 billion kuna in banks, it seems to me that it's a lot more than 320, it's my estimate of 500 million kuna. So with this change, the state will profit about 800 million kuna. Although that share of the state in real estate tax will increase for the benefit of local self-government but still these changes in the law with citizens who will get something increased and the income of the state, and only on the burden of the unit of local self-government. And I'm saying that this law is passed late at a time when already the mayors, the mayors, the mayors should propose a budget for the next year, and that no guidelines have been passed in this House, nor have they been delivered to the local self-government leaders on the one hand, and on the other hand they don't even know how much funds they're going to have in the end... this law...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93045	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93046	Well, I always run away from calculating who's gonna be more or less. The bill of law is dangerous because of messages. There are two messages that are unacceptable that we as legislators bring them. The first message we return to centralised because the return of 60% of decentralised funds used by units of local self-government back to the state level means that ministers will manage these funds and that they will decide. How much of this will have adverse effects on liquidity, as much as on energy loss, we will see this only in 2015. And another message, where this justice with irresponsible behaviour in the city of Zagreb and we legally send a message, will not punish the city of Zagreb, all 560 units of local self-government. So do you people realize what kind of law we bring? So the law cannot be passed repressive against those who are not guilty. There is no law under which we return the proceedings and again give power to the central government, and in fact, let's be honest, we are all for decentralisation and we expect that the launch of everything can be from the local environment. And what's the biggest problem, no funds will be missing, the investment funds will be returned to consumption because the upgrade is the good part still consumption. Therefore, there will be no new jobs, there will be no investment, these are the messages of this law and that is why it is a harmful law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93047	Third replica and respected Marijan Skuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93048	Thank you, Vice President. An esteemed colleague, above all, when we talk about this law and in your debate, is often mentioned in some way by the mayor's ability or ability, the local mayor. And here, of course, by this law and all these activities, above all, at local level, we must encourage investment and development. And that's not done by magic tricks, it's done primarily by investment or money. And money knows who has the most. It is primarily the responsibility of the Minister of Finance and the State Budget. Then I love hearing the discussions of former finance ministers who now have in some way a large part of the enlightenment that sees how they should be done. In fact, we've lost safe over a dozen years is all these development measures that we have to invest that had to be brought long before because nothing happens overnight. And the final consensus of all these activities on local and regional self-government when there are no good funds to settle there are no good laws, and that is to ask how many cities and municipalities are in the budget deficit at all? So, if they are in the budget deficit, we know that, in practice, you must not have any investment only on the revenue side that you get, you have to invest in solving that part of your commitment to the budget users or the commitment to the contractual obligations that have arisen and have neither the references nor the ability to take credit or to invest in their development. How to solve them, how to help them and they are most often, I will not tell the smaller part of the ability, the inability of mayors, the mayors or the policy led by such cities and municipalities or by not knowing the means needed to settle and invest that are not adequately invested.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93049	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93050	We can always have a different approach to decentralisation and strengthening local self-government and belong to those who believe that the state will always be stronger with a stronger role for cities, municipalities and counties. And yet I think it would always be for a regional approach to this 4 or slightly more regions in the Republic of Croatia that would be talking about development right now. I consider this a better solution than managing funds from a single center. I'm not going to talk about the minister's ability at all if they're capable, but you have to understand when it's managed by a single centre then there are priorities, and when you have priorities in the lack of money, then many, many at a local level, are waiting and will never welcome. It's a difference of decentralisation, it's basically a support that every unit of local self-government manages at least one small part of the funds. And we've long concluded that 10%, 11% of how long it's left for local self-government units not enough to have a greater development. That's it. And on the other hand, just try to see where the money will be found for missing funds, for consumption at local level where it will be found? Well, in communal compensation. A communal fee that has so far been partly spent on upgrades and expenditures in the upgrade. What does that mean? That there was already too much spending without the funds covered. And now you're giving us the opportunity to spend it all. Is that a development? Is that investment in the water network, road, infrastructure? No, I don't. It's in consumption again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93051	For the word now appeared again on behalf of the promoter, Mr Branko Grcic, Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93052	Thank you very much. So that's an example so we have to be consistent in these discussions. A little while ago you mentioned the distinguished representative of the proposal of the Association of Cities, which the Government ignored, but one of these proposals that we have just accepted is the flexibility in the use of communal compensation. Here's one of the 6, 5 proposals from the City Association. So we followed their proposal. But that's not what I wanted to say, I wanted to say something else. So first of all about centralization. I'm going to do it again because obviously, without repeating it, it can't get real information to the public and to the ear. So it's not about any centralised, the standards for decentralised functions are defined, and that's what the former minister of one and the former minister of the others know that the standards are defined. And that according to these standards, so we don't change the standards we have established for each unit of local self-government standard for health care, for education, for the social care that we will absolutely respect, and that's why we've provided the money, I just said that a moment ago. Therefore, we have no intention of arbitration. Secondly, on this issue to say subscriptions or extra income for decentralised functions of the city of Zagreb, here is exactly the former minister was struggling to actually get back to that money back to the budget. So let us be consistent with that. You were just struggling to get that money back into the budget, unfortunately you didn't because you lost this legal battle, you failed. And now we're actually trying to eliminate in advance the possibility of that happening more. Once a technical change, this is actually a technical change. And I only agree with what Mr. Schucker said earlier, that this question could be a matter of liquidity. Yeah, I agree with that, but nothing else. So in kuna, everything will be paid back to local self-government units and we've compensated that money, and I just said that. So more than that, the esteemed representative Bačić is mentioned, so not 300 million but 500, and indeed we have conservatively evaluated interest incomes. And I don't know exactly how many they'll be but under 300 they shouldn't be. If 500 is a super, another greater flexibility in meeting the needs of local self-government, not state, local self-government. Therefore, it is absolutely one source and other sources are precisely 300, even I think it was 350 million returns from the city of Zagreb's budget to the state budget, so it is a maximum of 850 million which goes far beyond the sums we need so far to pay off all units of local self-government, i.e. county to settle decentralised functions. God forbid it's like you said, so the interest income will be 500, 500 million. And the third thing I wanted to mention here in this address was last year the total investment activity of local self-government was 3.5 billion kuna, huge money in these local self-government gauges and their available money. Now that you see it's only 100 million cca. was co-financed by EU funds, 100 million is 3% of the total. In the country, it was something more favourable but still little, too little to say that we changed our approach and now is the chance to change that approach and we have to do it. You know what happened in European countries, cohesion, so those new members who use EU funds, their capital investments in the function of stabilising public finances according to a cohesion report published two days ago, have changed the entire structure. First, investment activity fell between 20% and 60% and then within the structure of these capital investments, the EU funds grew to 70, in some countries even 80%. That's our goal. We want tax revenues, what citizens pay to replace with free and free EU funds because we have people, we have to use them. It won't work overnight, but imagine how many 80% of the 3.5 billion kuna we can potentially replace with EU funds and solve all these problems that an IDS colleague mentioned earlier, etc., etc. That's the way we want to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93053	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First honoured Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93054	Yes, Mr. Vice President. I am the one who fought the war with the city of Zagreb but I have never come up with the crazy idea that because I was not successful in that war because it was the court who decided to punish the other 540 units of local self-government and to centralize the funds so that I could tell the Minister of Finance that you would be given a trust fund. That never occurred to me, because I belong, unlike you, to those who I consider mayors and chiefs to be far more successful than the minister, far more just than the minister. And you can't punish 540 units for the city of Zagreb. That's very clear. And what I also expect you to know is that the settlement fund is centrally awake, that it is the minister's jurisdiction and that it shares and that these are no longer the funds of the local self-government unit. It's a problem for you to re-enhancing the state budget with this law, weaken local and regional self-government. You weaken them, you give them less money. And something else when it comes to this, very briefly, is the tragedy that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is changing the Law on the Communist Economy, which is the next point and means of purpose. Because there's no point in the Company Act if you're taking funds and spending them in... and for two years at the Ministry of Finance, there has also been a proposal for a Real estate tax law because it should have been a solution that tax revenues of cities do not depend on municipal compensation as a relic of socialism, a relic of socialism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that just shows the expertise in this government, to give the law, taking away dedicated funds for municipal infrastructure, basically survives and we spend it on upgrades.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93055	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93056	I mean, I can't get tired of repeating it, and I'm going to do it again, and I don't know why you insist on something that isn't true, which is that the units of local self-government are not going to take away any kuna, the question is just what goes directly and what goes indirectly. And I've already explained everything, so the indirect money goes through the balancing fund, and the standards have long been established and no one will change them. Therefore, if a unit of local self-government for school, health care, hospital, I don't know what not everything in decentralised functions was supposed to get 3 million and 800 thousand kuna in 2014, the same thing will be in 2015, only the ratio of the sources of funding will be different. A slightly smaller amount will come directly into the budget, and a larger amount will go round through the balancing fund, but we do not touch into the standards and do not touch the needs in their assessment. I'm undermining it three times to make it clear that this just doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93057	Second replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93058	Thank you very much. What I'm about to say, I sincerely hope I don't offend you. If you were not allowed to touch anything with this Law on the financing of units of local self-government, you should not have touched this 12% for decentralised functions. Don't be angry, but you obviously don't understand the whole process. Because when this law was passed in 2002, it was the first step towards decentralisation, that practically a large part of primary and secondary education was brought down to local self-government. And what you're saying will get money one way or another is just ridiculous. If the city of Zagreb was a problem, the city of Zagreb has a basic and secondary education base of 5.3%, so you could, as has these other shares in income tax different, you could bring them down to 4.7... and the city of Zagreb... some frames. The compensation fund serves exclusively because of the fact that the child in Banovina, Vukovar or elsewhere where it is far worse income from income tax has the same standards as the child in Velika Gorica, Zagreb, Rijeka, and now if Zagreb, Rijeka, Velika Gorica, wants to raise the standard based on its budget, no one defends it. And that's the meaning of these decentralised functions. And fellow Greek, ask your colleagues what led to a minus in county hospitals. You know what? These three percent. Because someone said it would be enough, and at the same time someone else set prices in county hospitals where this simply couldn't be covered and then there was a loss of a billion kuna. That's the story, I'll see how long it takes. And I repeat, I really don't want to offend you, but whoever touched this item really has no idea what decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia means. Well, it's not decentralisation if I give you money, it's decentralisation if my money comes to me. It's decentralisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93059	Time. Replication response, Branko Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93060	Of course, there are horizontal and vertical balancings in the decentralised system, and that is what funds are for. Therefore, money was collected into funds, based on the principle of solidarity. Why are there funds? Well, I guess that should be clear to you as Minister of Finance. The funds serve solely for the principle of solidarity. The richer those in the fund stand out because they have a little more money to settle the needs of the poor. So I remind you once again that this will not reduce any kuna for decentralised functions, nor can you prove that with this funding act, there will be a reduced quality of standards reached in local self-government units achieved in healthcare, education and social care. However, they should go ahead and we will work on it at a time when money will certainly be a little more than it is today. So this redistribution and distribution is not at risk. Neither standard nor quality achieved nor the last kuna to be paid for it. I stand behind it however you want, and as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, he thinks the same thing. We've talked about this a long time, we haven't come to these solutions overnight, and I'm saying what I'm saying, I'm behind it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93061	And the third line, dear Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93062	Mr. Vice President, here's a colleague of Shucker and a colleague of Linic's said what I wanted to say in the replica. But if 6% is reduced, it means 720 million kuna ends up in the state budget and will now be held by the finance minister because he knows what standards should be respected and then, according to his own decision, he will return some of those funds where he thinks he should end up. But do you want to convince us that if 720 million kuna instead of local self-government ended up in the state budget, it's not centralization. So let him come back, but first, he won't return that whole amount, that's one thing, and another thing, the minister will decide on it, not the local mayor or mayor and mayor where those funds were supposed to end. And it's a classic centralization of funds and it's not trusted to local leaders, but the minister has to be the person who's going to determine those 6%, and that's not small, that's 720 million kuna. And another thing I meant to say, you say you prefer it still to be instead of 320 million kuna incomes from interest taxes, not 500. In my calculation, if it's exactly a data that can be easily verified that saving citizens is 170 billion kuna, then it's 500 million kuna, according to the 12% tax, it's 500 million kuna, according to the average savings interest of about 2.5.2.6% in Croatia, it's half a billion. That's again the revenues of the state budget, that's again, that you're saying that you're going to partially pay back for tax returns that's another thing, that's again increasing the revenues of the state budget. This law increases the revenues of the state budget, reduces the income of units of local and regional self-government, and this is a classic centralisation as long as you try to tell us that it is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93063	Replication response, Branko Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93064	So yesterday I was a demagogue, and today my noun is obvious. So what you're saying is pure demagogy just doesn't stand. In fact, we've strengthened this fund for those 300 million kunas that someone who's had extra funds for decentralised functions didn't want to return to the Balance Fund. You understand that? Do I need to repeat that a hundred times? So someone who kept that money and didn't want to bring it back to the state, into the fund from which the poorer units were then funded, and now we've actually got this technical change into the budget, and we've got it back to the poor units for the needs of education, health care and social care according to the established formula. Well, we're not here to arbitration, there's a formula that all ministers have to stick to, and that's what's the only criterion for the distribution of these funds, not the political will of this party or that party in power. That's what people are about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93065	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, the respected Dragutin Lesar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93066	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Vice-President of the Parliament, the Government, ministers, the minister left unfortunately. Yesterday, the vice president of Greece didn't understand me when I told that Regional Development Act that he was a fruitcake. ... So the vice president of Greece didn't understand me yesterday when I used the term "cushupise" on the law. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I want to believe they'll understand what a rock soup is, it's about this law and how many charges of demagogy and different approaches it would be if the government had followed this package of laws with a supposedly existing simulation. Mr. Rajenovic said they have it +/- 5%, so simulation. In 2014 and 2015, the existing legislative solution, the proposed legislative solution, tax revenues from own and common taxes and state aid, the municipality will be so many, cities so much, the county so much and promised that during the debate parliamentary representatives would get it. Would we then be in a position to torture data access and different calculations to outwit whether 800 million kuna will be burdened by local and regional self-government or by a billion and 200. Vice President Grcic said, of the 2 billion 100 losses due to changes in income taxation, unfortunately 800 million go to the burden of local and regional self-government. I say it's going to be a billion and 200, at least a billion and 200. And if projections, calculations, estimates, estimates don't exist there's a second time in the state of the law description. Half of this, Mr. Greek, this debate will be unnecessary but you don't have it in law proposals. Every time you appear on behalf of the promoter, you pour new data, new figures, new facts, and when someone opposes it, you say it deals with demagogy. Okay. Did local self-government and regional self-government receive new obligations in 2013 and 2014? Yeah. Because of the great poverty the pressure of the population and the citizens was for municipalities and cities, the county bought school books. And then we came into the situation that some bought books and donated them to everyone, including the children of the richest, billionaires and millionaires, unfortunately, without any criteria and smashed a few million to a few hundred million, and I can't pay for the work done, the technical maintenance of schools, hospitals and everything else, and because of a little pulsism and pressure. So then came the problem of school transportation, Mr. Vice President, for children of primary and secondary schools, where you should also go jump in. Of course, there are examples of community heads who received headlines on newspapers and television shows because they introduced sayings for each newborn child give 10, 20, 30,000 kuna. I'm calling to ask if you have a kindergarten in your community, we don't. Of course, because especially before the election to give 30 grand for a newborn child is much cheaper than having a kindergarten. Demagogy and pulsism there, yes, but this is no measure that you suggest changes, Mr. Vice President, will solve these problems, extremes and poor management. But new obligations to local self-government, other resources other than finance were imposed. That's not a word we're talking about when we're talking about finance. And for years data on the fiscal capacities of municipalities, cities and counties in Croatia suggest that the funding model is from the income tax's biggest income, leading to an anomaly. Minimum fiscal capacity has municipalities, cities and counties in continental green Croatia. And for this reason, I really believe that this proposal is to make income tax entirely the income of local self-government, and that, with the provision that 12% goes for decentralised functions, and that balancing funds go directly from the budget, the state budget. It doesn't have to be a profit tax, it's a state budget item. The most just one billion and 510 are planned for the next year if I am not mistaken, a billion and a 510, the most just and the longest-term solution. A slight increase in the rights of municipalities and cities in income tax from 56 and a half to 60. County from 16 to 16 and a half. And what we're coming now. The system of decentralised functions introduced in 2001 with these 12% then was both explained and expected only as an initial phase of decentralisation of the state. And that maximum value of fiscal financial decentralisation of the state is now halving it and you say the difference will be settled from 600 million interventions, i.e. by giving the state to those who are now getting less. That's not the point of decentralisation. It's centralization and the creation of addiction in the central state, however you interpret it. And those other municipalities and cities, i.e. cities and counties, plan and in the medium term, if not long-term ongoing maintenance in kindergartens, schools, secondary, primary, health care centres. What about those who have created financial obligations here for the next two, three years of these decentralised functions? Call a competition, make contracts, work goes. What are they gonna have to break the contracts now? Those who are smart, they plan two, three years in advance. I warn you, there will be problems. Expendable tax. If I'm well based on the results data in the first six months of this year, it's for the whole year that this, somewhere around 95 million, is no longer according to the Ministry of Finance. Real estate tax. Says the municipalities and cities from 60 to 80, the state from 40 falls to 20. According to the results this year for the first six months of two, that's an additional 180 million. In the light of the law, it says 232. How can such different data be? Where's 232, if it's planned for this year 900 million. So we just can't find a common language around projections. The fee for the exploitation of mineral raw materials for the production of building materials is fifty, but not all municipalities and cities and not all counties, but only municipalities and cities of the first and second groups of assisted areas and the county of the first group. And when we discuss the financing of local self-government, we talk about not only a single part. These famous tickets to national parks no one from the fifth can project how much income they are and where, where local self-government will even exercise that right. Profit tax. As a compensatory measure of charity, gifts, gifts, recalculation but still only part of local self-government and regional, not all, or those in areas, assisted areas. And now we come in taxes on interest income. Projection 300 million. It'll be a state budget, income from the state budget, but it'll get into the Decentralised Functions Alignment Fund, so the state will actually give it back. What units of local self-government? If it's for balancing decentralised functions, then it's not all of them again. Supporting units of local and regional self-government as a state budget item in the next year according to the plan compared to 2014 increased by 238 million and 641,000 kuna. Exactly 238,641 kuna. Additional means to offset decentralised functions. 2014 billion and 270. Proposal for 2015 billion and 510. Is that 240 million more? Only 240 million more. Yeah. And when I summed up all this data about what's more, I never came up with any compensation measures to keep local self-government only 800 million, no way. There may be some data we don't have. The former finance minister, of course, is far more familiar and easier to calculate. And if they claim and I join them especially in that warning of the danger that the 12 per 6% reduction in income tax for decentralised functions is one of the worst proposals in this law, and given the circumstances I have been dealing with in the county for 7 years, then we open the issue in the long term whether Croatia is going towards centralisation of finance or decentralisation. Because everything that is not the original income, whatever does not come directly but hangs by intermediaries, criteria and government decisions cannot be considered a decentralised function. There's a lot of shouting, shouting and waste in local self-government and 30% more pay than it is in the state administration. I purposely say yes, because there is no such information in the light of these laws. I only know that the mass of expenditure for employees in all municipalities, cities and the city of Zagreb is 21% compared to total expenditure, 21.2% compared to the total expenditure they have. And if the City of Zagreb should be punished, i.e. a solution to the right of 300 million kuna above the standard that was prescribed, then it is not done so that the rights are taken away so that the City of Zagreb can be resolved. At 31.12 last year, 11 300 employees, 1883 or 13 183 employees were employed in all municipalities, all cities and all counties in Croatia. Of these 13 thousand 2826 are employed in the City of Zagreb, and officials and tenants. When in those 13,000 we take 2800 the remaining figures for someone can be large and for a small one, but when you look at the data individually by municipalities, cities and counties, and I talked about it yesterday we will again come to the legality that the exaggeration there that is now going to get the most of this and yesterday's and today's bill and be taken to those who have been aware and responsible so far. And this particular problem of linearity, linear hitting, detiming the further development of local self-government, dimming correct and responsible behaviour and questioning the citizens' interest in strengthening the role of local and regional self-government. And because of that, it's not just a financial issue, it's a budgetary financial issue, but it's also a matter of the long-term relationship between the central government and whether we're going towards centralised or decentralisation. If we do, or you do, there is no vice president or minister now, but you in the government that the problem in local self-government and 2 billion of them should simply be taken away, then apply the model that you've been running away from all along and reform local self-government and eliminate everything you think is excess.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93067	We're moving on to replicas. First of all, the respected Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I wouldn't agree with you if this law was like a rock soup. He's like a bad rock soup to me because if he's a good cook and a mastechef, then he's an extremely tasty rock soup. But I agree with you on one thing, which is that this law represents the centralisation of funds and in the year in which we have decentralisationd the obligations of local self-government. And when it comes to building inspection, and when it comes to the implementation of the Noise Protection Act, and when it comes to traffic directors and agricultural inspectors, etc., etc. So, in the year in which the government imposes a number of obligations on local self-government units, which also means new allocations for the functioning of these new powers and jobs that have been added to the local self-government unit, we, first and foremost, are reducing funds to local self-government units by the law on amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act. And then with this law instead of compensating it to the extent that we've taken away, and that's about 2 billion kunas based on amendments to the Income Tax Act, this law shows that we're further creating that difference in particular... which you're talking about the part relating to the Balance Fund. And there we have been more than enough convinced that this is about centralisation of governance and resources, and the obligations remain in the local self-government unit and no one can convince me that with that, with those 6% now taken away from local and regional self-government units, they will be able to function normally in that sector for exactly these purposes for which these funds are allocated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93069	Replication response, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93070	Thus, my colleague Bačić, the new obligations that local self-government received by law and other acts every year, we gave them new commitments, but I underline that those who were responsible and planned in the middle of the next year have already created certain financial commitments based on public competitions. And some of them signed the contracts. We create a dangerous situation that we will have to either cancel the tenders or those who have signed the contracts to terminate the contracts and pay the damages. Obviously, no one took care of it. Because in order to decentralised functions... you can't wait for the adoption of the budget, you can't wait for March and then start if you want to do something from the beginning of the year. These are all problems in the activities and work of local and regional self-government that we ignore. The same problem is facing the central state. But when we propose laws, then we pretend that these problems are only with us, without local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93071	New replica, dear Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93072	Dear colleague Lesar, what do you wonder? As far as this law is concerned, and everything we have brought these days, so the minister here, that is, the vice president of the government, is dead cold, said that they are aware that the units of local self-government have lost something, so here we are today, the Law on the Communist Economy, are going to allow the units of local self-government to spend the municipal compensation from the Law on the Communist Economy. Is he aware of what he's doing? Maybe after his term is over he should go to work for a year at any local self-government unit and finally know what those local self-government units are doing on the ground. And this is tossing sand in the eyes when people are told that the state and this government have made them pay more with this tax. These are not the funds of the local self-government units of any mayor or mayor. These are the funds precisely of these citizens because those assets that they have now been reduced in the budget get through the work of these city administrations through kindergartens, through social giving, in raising health standards in that area, to help pensioners not to say all the things that local self-government units are doing. And every head of the local self-government unit and its city council, unlike the government, the state, the finance minister when he makes his budget must have 10 on incomes and 10 on expenditures. On the basis of which we're going to call a tender for some capital investment when we don't have those funds in revenue because I'm not going to say this to the stupid ones, but to the crazy legal decisions and this way of thinking about the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, that I'm not saying that in this Law on the Communist Economy he touched and someone whose isn't a realtor. Minister Maras gave us a dead man from the Law on the Communist Economy the other day and presented him as market goods and he goes to the free market. Where are the units of local self-government, the municipal society that needs to be financed? And when you're talking about Here, thank you. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93073	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93074	I'm not surprised. I am saddened that we are discussing these laws at the end of November, so at the end of November when most of the municipalities, cities and counties were supposed to be at the end of the adoption of the budget. We thus send a message to the extent that we appreciate both their time and their ability to make preparations for the adoption of the budget in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93075	Next replica, respected Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93076	I can't and can't try to interpret once again what the concept of decentralised means that you, too, have touched in your debate? Now I'm asking why 6%, why not 0%? What's six for? Our vice president will say so because approximately 3% should take Zagreb. Now imagine how he calculates decentralised funds. And then what did the vice president say? The vice president says the alignment fund serves to take the richer ones and make them poorer. A good definition, but imagine a circus, the City of Zagreb won't have enough to decentralised funds, because it doesn't have any kuna for decentralised funds. He didn't get that. Are we aware that the City of Zagreb will seek from the settlement fund legal minimum. He has the right to seek it out as any other municipality. Now we have to say, and where are the richer municipalities and cities? The city of Rijeka will seek, the city of Split will seek, the city of Osijek, so the four largest cities will seek funds from the settlement fund. What's the definition of the settlement fund? The richer he gives to the poor. Wherever this is taken, which are richer when everyone is on the settlement fund because 6% of what he calculated is not enough for a minimum standard. So then I suggest he could plant 0 and centralize everything and divide it differently and he could determine that we're going back 12 years, because 12 years ago we introduced decentralised funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93077	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93078	Kolega Linic, thanks to the decentralised functions and resources introduced in 2001 by the government then, and good planning or long-term planning, for example, at the county hospital in Čakovec after 25 years of not buying a single medical device, managed to renew part of medical equipment. And now imagine that every two, three years we change the legislative framework, and we take credit counting on future inflows to say this kind of radical change we do every two years, so what mayor is allowed to do is, in two, three years' time, plan, let's just say, when it comes to the hospital system, not to say these minor interventions. So we created uncertainty and fear of long-term planning and thinking. Everyone will be afraid because uncertainty is great.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93079	The new replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93080	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lesar, did you see a guideline for making the budget of the unit of local self-government for 2015? I didn't get a chance to see him. Look, you've asked yourself a question of decentralisation and centralised, but in this assembly, I think to those who understand it is no longer a question, but a question of obligation and rights. 'Cause somebody left you a job and he took your rights, and he didn't write you how you're gonna plan your numbers next year. And that's the taste of the whole problem. We can be smart here as much as we want, but look at one rough bill just here, which provides for this bill, 2 billion and 100 cuts in income tax, 720 million cuts in decentralised assets, and somewhere around 70 million is that balancing fund, that's two billion and 900. And what should I give this law? Veli municipalities and cities should get 480 million, 60 County and that fund somewhere around 130 million that's a total of 670 million. So, this law, with real estate tax being a clear bill, but this law is what it is without a real estate tax to the local units in a minus 2 billion and 200 million kuna. And that's a fact. So we took 2 billion and 200 million reasons for the leaders of the local self-government units to decide something. And that's the key to everything. But that someone wrote along with those of their famous guidelines, which say among other things that income tax will disburse the price of work, and the other one says that it will increase consumption, that it will write what it will be so-called. Compensation measures then probably the leaders could make it. This definitely touched an item that no one had ever thought to touch. Everything could have been touched, but the decentralised means could never have been touched. It could only have been said of their increase and not of their reduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93081	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93082	Our fellow Shuker remains only an appeal to the State Audit that, when auditing municipalities, cities and counties in this part of the Budget Act and the Fiscal Responsibility Act, there is no unlawful treatment of the representative bodies of municipalities, cities and counties in this section for the following year, because I have not seen the guidelines either.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93083	Replicated Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93084	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Lesar never again, and I think we'll agree after these packages of laws that never greater centralization of the state, absolutely never greater. We were all seeking this decentralisation and we in Lika-Senj County were hoping that certain revenues from the forest, water, the Adriatic Sea, my county ample with this natural wealth that this part would be decentralised. No, it goes even stronger decentralisation. And now, through this income tax, they're boasting that somewhere a million and I don't know how many 200, 300 thousand people will have a higher salary. No, they won't. He won't, and it's a delusion. This incompetent government through these laws wants to make itself capable, and the mayors, mayors and mayors incompetent. How? My below Dane and Mane in Lica have 3,000 kuna salaries, the income of local self-government has fallen, which is why the mayors will some increase the tax or communal fees, and some also the tax and communal fees. Then my Dane and Mane, instead of 3 grand, which will now receive 3 thousand 50 kuna, will have to pay a bigger cut or a communal fee for 100 kuna so that they will have no higher salary but a smaller one, they will not have three thousand, they will have no 2,950. But isn't it clear to you that we're going to strip this thing down to the end, the 720 million kunas now decentralised by the minister, that this criterion is going to be an election year to cover up its incompetence. How's he gonna cover it up? Now, my days are in your SDP I'll give you out of this 720 million kuna, you... you're in the SDSS, we'll see how you behave, and you're in HDZ, HSS, or I don't know in the HDSSB, I don't know where you're going to get anything, we took everything we can from you. It's gonna be a criterion, it's election year, that's why they're doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93085	The last replica of the esteemed Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93086	Thank you. Well, compensation funds like I said, if you take the two billion leftovers, you can reassess but two billion is missing. So the only compensation can come from outside. Let us take the example of Zagreb as you said it should pay back 300 million, and it now gets about 700. So he needs 400 for a minimum. But you should consider that these cities that have higher incomes that are rich will lose more because there are more people with higher incomes that will now pay less. Therefore, Zagreb will probably fall by at least 20 if not 25%. If you take that the minimum amount you need has not changed then you have calculated that out of these 700 he will have to return 300. But how much will he pay back? He still needs 400, he's going to get 25% less than 700 so we're not going to go into any bits, so it's going to be left with 500 and something million 580, 400 needs, so he's going to get back 150, 160 million, and not 300 million. You can't make up for the old amounts that were from cities that have 20% more to compensate than you should now. So all of these numbers that you put to go from richer cities you have to start by at least 20% because their income has fallen so much, so that's already the first logical, so I support these things to go from the outside, so it has to be either from the profit tax, and I don't know why this VAT at the state level... Only on the basis of two billion in the country will 400 million new if it goes into consumption. So let's get those 400 back, but it probably won't work because they're people, so we don't tell them what they need. So you can't count new amounts over the old ones when the new ones that are supposed to be put into the funds are certainly less by 20% to 25%.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93087	All right, second time replicate to whoever you've reported for the replica, not the minister. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93088	Mr. Valtere indeed means to offset decentralised functions whether the state will charge that item from profit tax, interest, VAT altogether, if exactly total income from the loss from the income tax title would be the original income... and this balance item of a billion 510 specifically in the state budget would then be clear. And I end up next, it will come and pass in 2015 and there will be reports on the implementation of the budget, then more of this Assembly will not be in this composition, but you will remember the greatest damage to these legal changes the least benefit or the greatest damage to the biggest losers will be those municipalities and cities that have taxes and are relatively high rates, which have communal fees and communal contributions above the average prescribed where payment is regular and above 80%, respectively. We're looking at them here today as rich people. In a year and a few days, they'll be knocking on the door to get into assisted areas. Somebody remember that, wait for the calculations, you'll find I'm right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93089	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Damir Cain, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93090	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yes, election year, election law or better said set of electoral laws. This is kind of a conglomerate when we talk about the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units, everything that's been discussed in these few days. It also means the Law on Income and the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area and the Law on Areas of Specific State Care and Regional Development, etc. One word when we talk about local self-government, the clear mother of all laws is the law on the financing of units of regional or regional self-government. This is the compensatory law which means that it should in some way eliminate the blow caused by the Income Act that weighs around 1.8 billion kuna. These compensatory measures under this law should amount to around 715.8 million kuna. Unfortunately, I will return again to those eight municipalities of the hill-mounted area of Istria County meaning Buzet, Lanisce, Oprtalj, Grožnjan, Cerovlje, Motovun, Lupoglav or Gračice, of this will not benefit much, something that but incomparably smaller than some other units in that area. Mr. Linic I think he's absolutely right when he says that the biggest loss wanted me to admit it or not will be right in the city of Zagreb. Zagreb will have a loss of at least 500, perhaps 600 million kuna under these laws. In addition to any compensatory measures that may be applied to it. All other units of local self-government mean somewhere around 500 million kuna. We also advocate leaving the whole income tax to local self-government units. Mr. Linic offered that table, 70% or that amendment better said that would remain local self-government and municipalities of cities, 18% of counties and normally these decentralised functions that would be financed by 12% of income taxes. The profit tax would also be useful to leave a local self-government. What shouldn't have touched in any way is decentralised functions. On the other hand, no one has to agree with me either, but my opinion is that the overall structure of the state upgrade should simply be reorganized, that it should be rationalised. I'm deeply convinced that without 50% employees, it doesn't matter in the government, the local self-government system would function without them. As I am also convinced that the state would function if the floor, and even better if in some way they simply questioned the justification of 50% I don't know the laws that are in force today. The other thing I'm saying is, I don't want the state to give us anything back, I want everyone to run their own by their own, one word to be taken less. I'm always an apostrophe for this pay phone, that communal device by 1990. Croatia was very rationally formed, we had no knowledge of 105, 107 or 115 municipalities anyway, it is clear that we cannot return to it but I think it is the same 570 and I don't know how many 575, 576 municipalities of cities, the county is something that more this country and taxpayers can't easily bear. In the period until the 1990s, Croatia was most decentralised far more than even some federal German units today, and that was one of the reasons why we may have developed in that period as quickly as possible. Clearly, there was war, there was this refugee crisis, everything else was, there were difficult circumstances, and some things were, clearly, higher and higher survival needed to simply change. When I talk about that structure just... One sentence at the time was that local self-government could choose judges, we know by which criteria she chose them, they could choose the head of territorial defense or national defense, the chief of police, finance, today the question of whether they could influence the choice, under the quotes of the queens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one can say on the other hand that 570 and so many units of local self-government have raised the municipal standard mainly as I would say in those rural parts of the Republic of Croatia. In Istria it certainly happened, it had a price but it should be acknowledged that these newly formed municipalities have raised that municipal standard. That's what I said my price. Local self-government, I'm going to say where I know the opportunities best in Istria make a billion-dollar 530 million kuna. In 10 years it's about 15 to 16 billion kunas and plus 15 to 16 billion kunas local self-government manages the revenues of the utility companies, the plumbing, I don't know, Herculane, the parks, as it's already called. It's also clear that no one can seriously compare this local self-government and the one until the '90s. It simply laid the groundwork, it doesn't matter if it's industry, schools, infrastructure, hotels and since the '90s the system has been kind of upgraded. Today, unfortunately, such a territorial structure, such a state administration, this local self-government is unfortunately becoming a stop to the development of the Republic of Croatia. In one word, this territorial structure blocks Croatia's development. Sometimes, simply in some areas, this possibility of public access exists with a synonym for wealth or for robbery. It would also be good to see how much the original revenues from one side of the country are, how much the revenues from local self-government are. When we look at these ratios then we see on one side we have 114 on the other side we have 21 billion kuna. So local self-government is still little, Croatia is still the most centralised country in Europe after Greece, but local self-government revenues or at that level are incomparably higher than 10%, and that's what I was saying when Plan 21. I guess somebody liked that 10% delusion, but here we are talking 10%. The revenues of local self-government are higher, insufficient, they are and give miserable, still Croatia is free to say no matter what it reaches 17, 18% is one of the most centralised countries in Europe, if not the most centralised after this Greece. Today, too, it should be kept in mind that it should start from opportunities in the Croatian economy. The only privileged jobs today, whether recognized or not, are in state-owned, local self-government, municipal enterprises, those companies that sort of work with the state, local self-government, or municipal systems. On the other hand, the system doesn't work, I'm looking at small craftsmen on betrayal, commissioners, headmasters, in some parts of the system, they're accounting for dozens of hectares and what they bought from the state for 10, 20 thousand kuna today for a million, 2, 5, or I don't know how many million euros. On the other hand, the incompetent judiciary is clearly silent and we have the situation we already have. Here's just one example. The chief of firemen in Istria drives a Land Rover Discovery worth about 450-500 thousand kuna. So wait, what is it, where does it just lead? On the other hand, we have 300 to 500 festivals for which 30 to 50 million kunas should be set aside. It doesn't just work out like that. So one word we all need to get on the ball and see what we actually do. If such a law which is some compensation for what is likely to be done is not voted out, opportunities in local self-government would simply be disastrous. Once again, I'm going to say that this whole country literally needs to be reorganized. It can't be down at my place to light the cranes for 5 or 6 million kunas without taking off the rose, which would be more necessary. It can't be that there's 1.8 million kuna in Pula for lamps and single mothers, for example, don't have books for their children. It can't be that the team is singled out only in the County of Istria, and where it is when you add municipalities, cities, etc., municipal enterprises, means a million and 450 thousand kuna, so wait, and that the county doesn't have a bonus or a map. Only the county on the tires spends 750 thousand kuna, what is that, a thousand tires. How many of those cars, how many of them are there? For 5.1 million kuna phones, and if we keep in mind the other 41 units of local self-government, then we get to 20 million kunas it. So I'm also convinced at these levels that without any effort, you can save over 50, over 70, and maybe millions of kuna. All in all, it would be good if someone once told us how much money goes into the budget from which counties, how much is coming back for wages, health care, pensions, etc. In the County of Istria... he returns 7800 and pays something in state bodies from health care, state administration, etc., plus 1,400 how many are employed by the police, returns those 47-48 thousand pensions. You should see how much the debt of the state is, as much as anyone simply participates in all of this. The essence of this law is here on page 4 which actually says that to implement this law "there is no need to provide additional funding in the state budget", in the state budget not but other funds will lose. The implementation of this law results in redistribution of income from income tax and redistribution of income from real estate tax between the central government, units of local self-government and then the redistribution of these functions for decentralised functions and balancing in a position to assist municipalities, cities, counties, for projects co-financed by European Structural Investment Funds. So 183.7 million kunas should be provided. It reduces the direct rate for decentralised functions, which is a disaster, from 12% to 6% so far and will reduce the country's dedicated income, municipalities, or cities to finance decentralised functions that will be compensated through greater assistance from the balancing position for decentralised functions. Then this law reduces the share of the municipality and the city in real estate tax from 60% to 80%, and reduces the share in the country from 40% to 20%, reducing the state's income by 232 million kuna. And it is clear from this law that income from income tax based on interest on the savings of income from the state budget and through this income is expected to help the state through the years to pay to local, regional and regional self-government units in the assisted area for income tax returns after the annual citizens' application from their territory, meaning around 308 million kuna. I'm curious, in that original version of Istria, it was supposed to have lost about 80 million kuna. I'm afraid this will be between 50 million and 60 million kuna. In the end, local self-government runs out of those 1 billion kunas. It is a burden that will be difficult to compensate, although there must be these and internal reserves, and as regards between the adopted Income Act a slightly higher salary for the Ulnik on one side of the higher salaries for employees of the general hospital in Pula, it is reported that 250 people must go home. Cimos, and on the third hand I don't know the waste of any state, any local self-government clearly that I will always be for those who make bread for all of us. All in all, a serious, serious blow to local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93091	Replica, revered Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93092	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, in your opening debate, you mentioned first of all that the biggest loss of Zagreb, you feel very sorry for it that in that part you mentioned the nominal loss of 500 million kuna. Yeah, that's nominal. And when you look in that part, what is Zagreb? 500 million kuna on over 6 billion budgets is less 10%, 8%. On the other hand, the city of Zagreb is much more favourable than all of us, which is income tax, company tax, profit tax is paid according to, not according to the place of origin, but according to the place of registration of the company. So big corporations, companies with big income taxes, big corporate taxes and some profits, everything goes to Zagreb. On the other hand, the real who is the loser of all of this is 65 cities and municipalities that have lost status in the mountainous and mountainous areas, and there is no assisted area. It's the ones who are the real losers and it's not the drop in budget and 80 percent income, it's over 40%. That's where you should look at how and how to help these local units.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93093	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93094	Yeah, right. You're right about that. If Zagreb loses that 500 million kuna, then it will be 7% or 8% of their financial capacity. And I agree that the real loss will feel this very assisted area better said mountain-mounted areas from my little Buzet to one Lanisce. And there should be a normal search for a new one, a new one, I don't know what to say about the classification of those cities, those municipalities. Because no one can convince me that one Cerovlje or I don't know one Lanisce or one Oprtalj or one Grožnjan should be supported by an area and the foundation of some new future law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93095	On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93096	Thank you, esteemed vice president, respected deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, which is currently being discussed, has an important impact on the functioning and financing of these ones in an urgent procedure. That's exactly what the emergency procedures are for. We're discussing it today, and today it's November 26th. It will apply from 1 January of next year. I wonder how it was possible to know what laws this government will propose, which will have a significant impact on the financing and then on the work of the municipality, cities and counties, for example in September when it is most appropriate or at the latest when it should start preparing the budget for next year. Obligation of the Ministry of Finance under Article 27. The budget law is to draw up budget instructions and deliver them to municipalities and cities by the end of June. It is sad that just when we need these instructions most because the laws change daily that these instructions are not available. Today, we do not know how each of these new laws, which are amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax, the New Law on Regional Development, the Law amending the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas of Specific State Care and similar effects on the budgets of municipalities, cities and counties for the coming year, or reflect the standard of our citizens. What kind of budget could the mayors, mayors, and mayors send to their city councils, as required by Article 37, by the mayors, and mayors by 15 November. The budget law when we haven't even discussed all the laws yet, let alone passed them. Is anyone going to be in charge of breaking these laws? What kind of fiscal responsibility is this? The mayors, mayors and mayors must be psychics in order to assume which legal regulations will be passed on to them by a newspaper. When we talk about funding units of local self-government and budgets, we should not forget that, in addition to the 2015 budget, we must also bring projections for 2016, 2017. How does the government imagine that in a situation like this we can put together projections for the next two years when we don't know for sure what's going to happen in the first quarter of the next quarter. Shouldn't the Government first amend the Budget Act in an emergency procedure and remove the obligation to draw up the budget instructions by the end of June, delete the obligation to forward the instructions to the budgetary users by September, and deliver to the representative bodies by November. By law, the government has bound us and ourselves and the laws are to be respected, and the government violates them, and it makes it impossible for us to stick to them. Then why the laws? Why, then, these discussions and the adoption of the Parliament when we obviously cannot or do not want to stick to them? Whether the audit will be tolerated when it comes to supervision, have the understanding that it's not about ours, it's about government failures. The law states that the proposer proposes these amendments and additions to propose the distribution of income tax in a different, or fairer way. These amendments plan to mitigate the reduction of the revenue of losses resulting from the application of new tax classes. However, the redistribution of those revenues once again increases the revenue side in the state budget, especially at the position of helping to balance decentralised functions and at the position of assistance to municipalities, cities and counties for EU co-financed projects, which I think is good. While the share of decentralised functions that go directly to the counties, i.e. to the cities is reduced by 50%, i.e. From 12 to 6. These changes from the law have also kicked out cities with particular areas of special state concern. So a city that has individual settlements in the area of special state care, and in its composition and settlements on the island itself must finance and aid these settlements on the burden of others. However, these amendments to the law do not correct even the injustice of municipalities, cities and counties applied earlier to income laws, regional development, the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, special public concerns and others. These laws, like all earlier, confirmed that municipalities and cities, districts that managed to achieve a slightly higher degree of development than those in the first and second groups were punished. They're being punished for being a little more employed, more educated or written because that's exactly what the categories are looking at, among other things, when determining the index of development. The share in income increases slightly, from 56.5% to 60%. The share of the county from 16% to 16.5%, while reducing the share of decentralised functions from 12 to 6% so far. In the area of the municipality, i.e. the city, which according to specific regulations has the status of assisted areas, the share of income tax from which the assumed decentralised functions are financed is also reduced from 90 to 88%. The reduction of direct rates for decentralised functions will reduce the purpose income of counties and cities, i.e. the municipality for the financing of decentralised functions, which the Government defends, on the grounds that they will be compensated through greater assistance from the position to assist the balancing of decentralised functions. Thus, the share and distribution of income tax which, according to specific laws of municipalities, cities and counties which finance decentralised functions under specific laws is governed by the Government Regulation and a decision on minimum financial standards is made. However, by a government decision, a firefighter gets 97,000 kuna and some more than 146 or more than 50%. Will more significant funds continue to be deployed under this law, and is this a fairer way of financing? On how to help cities and municipalities and counties and decentralised functions, more specifically primary and secondary education, social care, i.e. We will see the centres for social care and homes for the elderly and the powerless and the health and schooling. Although they speak enough and share in income tax. Although the double percentage in distribution is again the most damaged health care. Of 3.2, it's only 1% going to belong to him now. This law lowers the deficit of the state budget to the level of units of local self-government within a short period of time. Supporting the tax disbursement of the municipality's citizens, cities and counties will thus receive a significantly reduced income of as much as 15%, a significant item. We must not forget that the incomes of local self-government units should be equal to the tasks they carry out, and units of local and regional self-government are given new tasks on a daily basis and new obligations are imposed on them. How, then, with more obligations and less resources to ensure the same standard of citizens? The government seems to forget that the units are local self-government and whose functions they are in. Local self-government units are obliged to ensure quality functioning of their area and do not have the possibility as the government does and most in this House, when the state does not get as much money as it expects. Finally, changes in the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government directly affect and change the lives of our citizens. It's not just our citizens' money that comes in their pay bags. The money of our citizens is also money for which municipalities and cities co-finance kindergartens for their children, scholarship students, help sick and disabled, fund coaches in clubs and others. Let us not forget the reduction in the income of municipalities and cities leads to a reduction in the quality of life in those environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93097	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93098	My colleagues, Juričev-Martinchev, said a sentence as to how the government imagines creating units of local self-government projections for 2015 and 2016. You hear all these days how they imagine it. We talked about local self-government last night. We talked about the regional development law on mountain-mounted mountains which they had thus mutilated that they had practically left it as we all concluded together last night at the strawberry and forest fruits harvest, and all the others had taken away from them. Projection for 2015 and 2016, I have the feeling that this government doesn't understand the function of local self-government units at all and everything that local self-government units are doing on their own ground. If the government were to act as units of local self-government that are often called here to talk about some local sheriffs and I don't know what and some myths, corruption, and I don't know what. The fiscal responsibility of each unit leader of local self-government at the end of each financial year is signed and delivered. The state audit controls, no budget is drawn up without a projection of revenue, and on the basis of which units of local self-government could do this revenue projection when only now that the budgets of the local self-government units have already gone to town councils to vote. And now we're just talking about a law that should be passed, which will go directly to the expense of income, items of income from local self-government units. How to draw up a budget with such a government, with such ministries, let alone a projection for 2016, now and 2017 because we are working on a budget for 2015. Based on which we're going to call for contracts for the projects we've got. They're not bored, the prime minister said, the deputy minister that only now, after a great deal of work, has created conditions and hastened all deadlines to extract funds. What are those funds, when we win, based on what contest we get, it's all in... So the budgets we're doing and the budgets we've brought aren't even budgets that are going to last half a year at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93099	Thank you. Thank you, dear colleague, we understand. Branka Juričev-Martin's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93100	Thank you. So, colleague Klaric, truth be told, by the end of June, instructions were due in our local self-government units. They still haven't arrived, they can't believe they're coming next month, so the government, or the ministry, is six months late. So what would it look like if we, as leaders, prepared our budgets and projections for the next six months. Six months then no one should do anything, no bills should be paid, it would simply cost life in our cities and municipalities, and who would be to blame? Probably the Ministry or... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93101	The edge of the Mandic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93102	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Martinchev, then I'll tell my colleague Branka, it's best, what I agree with your debate that... The adoption of this law has a significant impact on local self-government units, significantly influences and significantly changes lives in local self-government units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I would like to ask you is a question and a replica, that an injustice which has been made according to the largest number of units of local self-government specifically from Slavonia and Baranja, where among the first hundred most underdeveloped municipalities, 60 of them come from Slavonia, that among the first hundred there is only one from Slavonia and Baranja. So with this, without changing this law, that unit of local self-government remains at the same level, and here we are talking about a fair society, a fair development and a fair chance. You see, I'm coming, I was head of a local self-government unit where we're a city of over 30,000 inhabitants, and we never went on to have a public fire unit because we were afraid that when they came to the units of local self-government. We are in our unit of local self-government, we have a fire that is based on volunteering and which has covered 24 hours of security for citizens to protect, for their property, and for their own. And it's all on the burden of the only local self-government. Unfortunately for those who behave rationally in the Republic of Croatia, we have 75 public fire departments that are financed not from the work of units of local self-government, and that time we also have this irrationality. What you mentioned in your discussion is that we have criteria for the development index. These criteria were not passed by this government. Someone else brought it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93103	Thank you. Branka Juričev-Martinchev, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93104	Well, buddy, here I think you're a little off this law. As for the area of special state concern, I am pleased to correct the long-standing injustice, but you have failed to fight now, I will see how you will vote when this law comes to the vote, for example. and now according to this proposal, the law in the area of municipalities or the city, which according to specific regulations has the status of the assisted area, the share of income tax from which the assumed decentralised functions are financed is reduced. Well, it would have been good if you'd fought for more. When it comes to public fire departments, I can now tell you the experience of my work, we, the million kuna, are allotting for our public fire department with what we get from the state budget. So it's not without a zero kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93105	And Branko Bacic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93106	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev, I have listened carefully, and I believe that you, as a conscientious and successful mayor of Vodice, have fulfilled your legal obligation and have submitted the draft budget to your city council by 15 November for next year. As you have drawn up this budget, I really do not know, but since the law requires you to propose it to your city council, this House will, in the meantime, amend one, two, three, four, five, six, seven laws that will change both in revenue and in expenditure, the draft budget that you sent to the city council for adoption. The fact that they will probably be very quickly forced to rebalance the budget, even before the next year comes, is the problem of you and the head of the unit of local self-government and administration. So, these laws on the one hand reduce the incomes of the local self-government unit, and as much as the minister and vice-president of the government are trying to make up for our faith that these compensatory measures will make up for those funds and you and all the local self-government leaders and we know here in the Parliament that it will not be enough and that in the end 2 billion kuna will miss the units of local self-government and as far as you know it. At the same time, we have already said this today, a series of laws have been passed in this House that have given you new obligations, but not greater powers. What keeps going on in the Croatian Parliament is that the amendments to the law reduce the powers of the unit of local self-government but through these same laws we make new commitments that only cost money. So today, at the end of November of the month, a unit of local self-government seems to have been released to the mercy and mercy of its resources, which are now less than those that were before the entry into force of this mini reform as they call it from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93107	Branka Juričev-Martin's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93108	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Bačić and I, like all fellow mayors, mayors and mayors, have made one budget that we are aware of will not last more than 30 days in 2015 that we will have to go to emergency rebalancing. But what to rebalance? It is much easier to add than to take away, and it is certainly a great fear for all of us, especially knowing that we need to take care of our financial responsibility and how to deploy funds. And on the other hand, we have a lot of pressure and responsibility because, in part, like you said, we had to accept the powers that earlier had a construction inspection, so she, according to the Noise Protection Act, had what had been a sanitary inspection, so the traffic police transferred some of her powers to traffic planning. Since recently, we have a duty to hire an agricultural inspector and so on. I wonder that the town of Vodice is one middle unit of local self-government with solid incomes that will all be answered by a smaller municipality that certainly manages very well in its area to organise the life of its citizens, give them solid and infrastructure with all these obligations imposed by new laws, and also take away finances probably very, very hard and this is that programme and the promise of SDP and Plan 21 that it will go towards reducing the number of units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93109	On behalf of the SDP representative club colleague Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93110	I thank the esteemed vice president. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, and at the very beginning I will say that the SDP club will support this proposal for a legislative package on regional development of the Republic of Croatia, and we know that one of the laws in it is exactly the law we are discussing today. As the Deputy Finance Minister said at the very beginning, this is the almost finale of the legislative package creating some new and different frameworks for regional development in the Republic of Croatia. All of us sitting here coming from some community, from some town, from a local self-government unit and carrying with us a certain dose of local patriotism, all of us looking through the prism of our own backyard. Moreover, many of us, or have behaved with honor, will always say the responsible function of the directly elected head of the local self-government unit chosen by the citizens right now to serve the citizens and to create better living conditions in the units of local self-government. Some of us do it now, and some of us will be in the future. And for these very reasons we know very well whether and know how units of local self-government work, we know what their responsibilities are, what their obligations are, we know what citizens expect of us or of them daily. We also know that all these citizens always report to their first distance when they have to solve any of their problems, when they need help or when they have a proposal. They will always come to their chief, with their mayor somewhat less often with their mayor, and very rarely only in some other circumstances will the citizens refer to the central state in the bodies of the ministry or government. And that's why those citizens expect the most from their own local self-government units. That's what I'm saying because I think that the relationship that citizens have towards their leaders has changed as much. They are expected to solve these problems, to be involved, to be responsible, to be principled, to be creative and to be innovative. If we look at this law or the package of these laws or the measures proposed by this Government, then I expect one such participation of the local unit leaders. A participation that will also make one of the compensatory measures right through them. We can't expect at least that's what I'm looking at, so I'm just looking at everything that "takes a unit of local self-government" in one way or another of the other laws needs to be returned at the same time. Because what is the meaning of the existence of these units of local self-government and these leaders of local self-government units? On the other hand, what is the interest of these citizens that they have directly elected people who need to realise their programs and projects? So under the circumstances in which Croatia is now a full member of the EU in circumstances that are significantly different from the circumstances 14 years ago, in which certain measures and criteria for regional development of the Republic of Croatia have been established under these circumstances, we need to look for new mechanisms and new opportunities. In these circumstances, we should look at Croatia's colourful color from the least developed municipalities and cities to those of the richest. We need to find models of solidarity and we need to see where we're all together, a lot of government has changed, we've been wrong all these years. We should at least try, we should at least try to create the frameworks in which those units of local self-government that have been neglected in one way or another all these years have been cut off under new circumstances. Under new circumstances in which, with a certain amount of solidarity, those who have strengthened them will help them. And those who have strengthened have often strengthened on the very basis of the criteria or circumstances that have existed for them in the last 14 or 15 years. If we try to see the whole story of our Croatia, the story of Croatia we want tomorrow, and I am sure that we all want Croatia to be evenly developed in Croatia, that in all areas and parts of Croatia live citizens, that they are coming back, that there are their perspective, their employment, then we will find a really positive breath in all these measures that are happening. And what I'm going back to, we're going to find that important factor, that factor that we have to do together with all the levels to try to compensate, make up, make up for what we took. And what did we actually take? Who did we take? Or who we gave it to at the same time? Everything that has happened to these laws or this package of laws that is before us is actually the result of changes in income tax. And what was the goal, and what was the intensity of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? To keep it to the citizens. To keep them, their families available and to be able to look for a new perspective, and it remains in our local self-government units again. As I said at the very beginning, where we all live together, where we spend, where we educate our children, where we enroll children in those kindergartens, we end up in car schools, colleges, looking for work, using secondary and tertiary activities. All that is is the final cost. It's all something where we're spinning. At the same time, there are circumstances where many feel neglected, abandoned, more taken away and that these new circumstances will be difficult to develop further. At the same time, we may forget that we are in an excessive deficit procedure. That the other day we were here discussing the rebalancing of the State budget and that in just a few days we would be discussing the 2015 budget. And that all of us, like those leaders of local self-government units, must be responsible for this central state budget according to the excessive deficit procedure. That we must put ourselves in those frameworks in which we are required by the European Union, which we are a full member. And it's clear that any discount or any new expenditure we're going to make is actually going to lead to a new deficit, to an increase in that deficit. The only thing left to redistribute is the solidarity we have left. And then what might be most valuable in this whole thing happens is this new fund. The fund that will actually enable those currently in the most difficult situation, those who will feel likely the greatest difficulty means all units of local self-government that lose the status of areas of special state care or mountain-mounted status will not have enough time to adapt to these changes. Therefore, for them, one transitional period of 3 years is envisaged, taking into account all that they received from the central budget based on 2013 revenue, in fact, by solving the indexation, to enable them to have this transitional perspective over the next 3 years and to create themselves if they have not already succeeded in certain prospects for further survival. I believe that all together our goal is a strong and secure unit of local self-government. And that is why it is very important that we also build a fund that will allow units of local self-government to provide a national component for reporting to the European Union funds. So far, we have had a situation that we may not be completely satisfied with how much funds from the European Union funds have withdrawn our units of local self-government. And we often say that the realisation of structural and pre-accession funds depends on them, precisely the readiness and capacity of local self-government units, prepared programmes and projects. And often in the present situation we have had the inability to units of local self-government either finance the project or apply to the fund or secure their national component. Now, actually, by redistributing and reducing certain tax revenues, we sort of force, direct, or, even by quotes, I'll tell the units of local self-government and leaders to be different, to be proactive, to be innovative and to look for new opportunities. And at the same time, we create them a joint solidarity fund from which we create them and a prerequisite that they can now compete on these funds and create new added value in their budget. And when we put it all on one common pile and I'm not going to go into everything that's been repeated several times today, I'm not going to go into numbers, redistribution, change, then we can expect in many units of local self-government and budget increase. In front of us are new structural funds of rural development and all units of local self-government, almost all in the Republic of Croatia have the opportunity to use large funds from these funds. It is not exclusively a matter of the survival of the local self-government unit only on the returns to it or coming from the central state. In some ways, we have to try to change such thinking, we have to direct ourselves differently, and not only keep all the functions we have for our citizens but continue to build, upgrade and search for a new space for a better life in all these units. And Deputy Minister, we believe that the proposal that was heard today in this debate is to be welcomed and to be adopted. It is a proposal that speaks of the harmonisation, i.e. the inability of units of local self-government with regard to the moment of adoption of these legal amendments, the adjustment of own resources or regulations providing funds for a local self-government unit, so we in the SDP club would certainly join in considering Article 43 and to see if, in some circumstances, it can be possible to amend the item that speaks of local self-government units, meaning changes can be changed in their income taxes only by the end of the calendar year and apply it from the following year. Given that we are at the end and that the budgets are already there whether there is any possibility that these changes could be made for 2015 until its middle, in order to really bring the original revenues of the local self-government units into line and in fact give this new dose of security for the 2015 budgets. As I said at the very beginning, the SDP club will support these changes. We believe that this is one step that, in the set of laws and with a transitional period, will actually allow for a more even development of the Republic of Croatia in the period ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93111	Replica, Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93112	Dear colleagues, Posavec Krivec, your sentence cannot accept the thought that units of local self-government expect that if something is taken from them to return to them by other laws. If you looked at it that way, it might be understandable, but you didn't mention what we were all talking about, that not only was it taken away from local self-government units, it was taken away from them, it was expected to return to them, but those local self-government units were taken away, but they were forced into some other obligations to be financed. And you've perfectly described a situation where every unit leader of local self-government is far more than any minister or any government employee, ministry, wherever you want, in contact with its citizens and literally knows, especially in smaller areas, every family problem they have and wants to help. But here we're talking about that part of preschool education that's been imposed on local self-government units, decentralisation functions and fire protection, maintenance. So money was taken, new commitments were made, and no other way was it returned to the units of local self-government. And when you say that the goal is to keep more citizens, it would be okay if that money wasn't one of those citizens anyway, because through the units of local self-government through the subsidisation of urban transport, through the organisation of pre-school education, through a whole series of other benefits to those citizens, that money is very much returned. Now that there is no money, regardless of their increase and wages, that money has to pay in a far greater amount because that standard will have to pay out of those several kunas as much as it will get because the increase is minimal for those who have, and these are the largest number in our local self-government units, minimum wages and pensions compared to the few who will receive a few thousand kunas of higher wages because they have huge salaries in today's frameworks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93113	Ivana Posavec Krivec, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93114	Thank you, Vice President. Yeah, I really don't think we can make a redistribution if the same amount we took from one side only takes the other way, so we return it to the exact same units of local self-government. Here we have concluded through all these laws that are being discussed during yesterday and today, that not all local units in the Republic of Croatia are covered. If we want to expand the palette to the units that deserve it, which by indexation, are below the average of development and which should be helped to reach those who have been helped over the past 14 years, then we must also help from those who have never been helped to make their contribution. And their contribution to this can be made precisely in the segment to begin to approach needs, opportunities and to find new sources differently. Here's what was my thesis.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93115	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93116	Thank you very much. My colleague Krivec Posavec, you've been saying what's changing, but you haven't said in any sentence why it's changing, why this law is passed, to hear the explanation for why. Is this a compensatory law, perhaps, because of the adverse consequences of the change in the Income Act? If that's how much will be compensated, how much will that damage be solved? There's no appraisal. And if it's not compensation, then why are you bringing it in? But first, one law is changed, without projections, the consequences of any macroeconomic and economic and financial effects of the law, and then we see roughly that something is going to happen and that there will be reduced revenues, and now let's reduce the damage. So what's the effect of applying this law? What's going to happen in reality? What financial effects will there be? There's no letter of that. There is no financial impact assessment in the law. What does the finding in future income from income tax mean will be allocated in such and such a way? Well, that's what anyone can write. In the future, it's arranged like that. But why, exactly, and what will be the consequences of such deployments? What does it mean to cities and municipalities, 60% to 16% counties? Is there any previous analysis? Not at all. Why don't you give me some sort of assessment of what's happened, and why is that changing? Because of that previous change. There's no explanation. We'll even it out, and then the richest are allowed to have the highest cut rate. Well, the cut is the most unfair kind of tax. The tax is tax tax and then allows the richest from Dubrovnik to Zagreb that they have the highest cut rate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93117	Thank you. Ivana Posavec the guilty, the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93118	Thank you, Vice President. You've noticed, that's not what I'm talking about. That's not what I'm talking about, 'cause that's what everybody's been talking about here for two days. The motionors say, several times repeat it, we speak by all points of the law as if we had a united debate we could have about all these points and I wouldn't be surprised if we had because it's a package of laws that come together, that connect to each other and that in the whole package make one sense. But yeah, what's the point, what's the point? The goal is to strengthen Croatia and local self-government units, to create them so that they can attract EU funds, is to be able to collect everything needed for the life of the local population, the goal is that those who have been assisted for many years now in some way help those who need it most. The goal is to spend and strengthen everything we've tried for a long time. On the other hand, I also said that here one of the compensatory measures in all of this I see the activity of units of local self-government, and yesterday a colleague on behalf of the club spoke here about how much they are and this is a very measurable unit of local self-government successful in the collection of his own income. How many units of local self-government as their basic income cut off so we'll say cuts by their units. How much debt is written off for municipal charges per unit of local self-government. Let's look at all the statistical and other indicators and see that there are many units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia that have been much above average, which have also been receiving assistance from the central state all these years. While on the other hand we have those who need this help and who have never received it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93119	On behalf of the HNS Representatives Club, colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. These days, we are discussing a famous package of laws that is basically provided to citizens by an additional two billion and 100 thousand kunas by liberating that non-taxable part by reducing rates, and that is the intention to encourage even more local self-government through the law package to use European funds. Of course, the situation in which between 15, 17 and 20% of which the unit of local self-government loses tax revenue from income tax is not simple. And of course we at the HNS Club are also discussing this and talking to ministers looking for some additional measures to ensure that they like to say here compensation that this shock which is quite clear to you when 15 to 17% of your income is reduced as easy as possible to say, that those projects that are being started, that the projects that are signed, agreed, promised to voters in local elections are realised because that is essentially the key interest and work of local self-government. We also discussed at the HNS club, knowing very well that as said by a colleague of Turin's state, the citizens begin when they leave the building and they see it as a state. Whether it's a city, whether it's a state at a given time doesn't matter. But that country starts with a utility, lighting, roads, etc. And that is why this law, which is a complex law, which has certain risks, and that is clear and the Deputy Prime Minister said and he is aware of it and is prepared as a Government to provide additional measures, was called those compensation or measures of additional income from local self-government, so that what their colleagues mentioned does not happen and that the liquidity of local self-government is at risk. I say on behalf of the HNS Club that it is not only clear to you but also to our citizens and to all those most responsible in local self-government that we are aware of the fact that this law adopts and makes certain circumstances difficult. And that all compensatory measures, when we call them that, aren't enough at a given time because it's something that's happening right now. We are aware of the fact that the guidelines came quite late and that certain budgets of local communities, local cities and municipalities have already been prepared. Therefore, this law ensures in the beginning that the impact that is related to income is amortised, and that should be clearly said, and it should also be made clear that the intention and desire to find other spaces is also clear if there is a need. But the goal was to provide citizens with more resources and to encourage local self-government to additional funds from European funds. How will it develop? We didn't get all the answers and we didn't get all the mathematics but the government policy, the policy of this coalition is to go into this reform system by accepting certain risks and willingness to use it at some point and amortize it. I believe that both the part of the debate and the amendments that have been or will be held during the plenary session until they can be delivered are seen because this is a law that affects every citizen of the Republic of Croatia because it reflects on their units of local self-government. But this is something that, on the one hand, transforms a certain tax system, I'm not going to say reform, and something that's talked about, and then there's always debates about why everyone's a failure or why some are successful in local self-government. So the aim of this same law, other than the main two objectives, means European projects and the release of citizens is part of the means, in any case rationalisation. Rationalisation not on the burden of the social community, rationalisation not on the burden of kindergartens but on rationalisation if little is looked at by the State audit of municipalities and cities continuously indicates but does not implement ways from using funds to the way costs are increased, ways in which certain units of local self-government do not charge enough of what they have either invoiced or the obligations of entrepreneurs and citizens, the part being written off, etc., etc. Therefore, it is one segment that puts additional pressure on local self-government in reality to be much more rational. But surely what we heard in the introduction when he was Deputy Prime Minister to prepare and certain additional measures to ensure that this law, together with the Law on Special Income and Regional Development, provides funds for units of local self-government to function normally, rationalise and reverse EU funds. It is not doubtful that there is much debate, it is not doubtful and it is good that this is the way we consider ourselves in the HNS club because this law really has an exceptional importance and a essence for the functioning of every unit of local self-government, or for every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, what I have mentioned when it comes out of the house this law directly touches it today, tomorrow and in the use of services. Therefore, and it is good for Croatian citizens to know that we are discussing this law, that we also have reserves but that we also have solutions and intend that local self-government works better to make citizens better. And we believe that this law in its implementation and with other measures, means not only this law, but also the key increase in projects, especially through the use of EU funds. This is the period that we are going through in the transformation and use of resources more quality than the state, state institutions, definitely, but also the unit of local self-government. I believe that this period was enough to prepare projects so as not to amortise it but to use it so that certain specific municipal infrastructures can be financed from EU projects and that this part of the funds that are being reduced in view of the amendment of the Income Tax Act will primarily be quality amortised or compensated as already said. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93121	Replica, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93122	Your colleague Gjurkovic said that even when changes and additions to the Income Act on this side were discussed, it was heard that this would cause shock and you denied it, and now there is a shock. Now you're saying that it was a shock and that it was actually this, you confirmed, compensation law. But what's the compensation, what's the shock? So how could you know what a shock it was when you denied it? You said it wouldn't cause any earthquakes, and now you say it is. So what's the shock and how much is it going to compensate? Then how much stress will remain and the difference between shock and compensation, how much stress remains on local self-government units? You didn't calculate it, you're saying this will stimulate local self-government units using EU funds. This will be most stimulated, let's take away all their income and then be maximumly stimulated to benefit from EU funds. This law can only be interpreted as sending a message to the units of local self-government if that law has not destroyed you then this law will strengthen you. That's how I can understand him. And you said the guidelines came to budget local self-government units too late. They're not too late, they're a year and a month too old. They have guidelines, i.e. instructions since October 2013 but one small problem, no longer worth it, needs new ones. The calculations were made without guidance. There are no instructions yet to this day. There's a problem that I'm afraid you can't see.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93123	Reply to the replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93124	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, of course they express when I say shock, I think I'm saying what's realistic and arguing on behalf of the HNS Club. Every taking away a certain asset is a certain shock. Changing and transforming ways of working, rationalising, preparing projects and on the other hand feeling that something new comes with other laws, calling them compensation or a package of tax laws is something that certainly shocks every responsible chief or mayor in part, must be prepared for a different but better, better, more quality, more rational way of working. The choice of words is, of course, important and necessary in this Croatian Parliament, because it shares and sends certain messages, but also acknowledges and accepts the responsibility to go to some extent, believing that it will be better and better for the citizens, on the other hand, rationalization and better work of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93125	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93126	Col. Gjurkovic, you said that one reason to encourage local self-government units to use European funds, which is why we haven't seen them yet, we haven't had anything to run for, I guess. But we can use European funds, and we'll use them, we'll build a road, we'll build a water line, we'll build a kindergarten, we'll have a firehouse, I guess now there'll be a measure through the Ministry of Agriculture 7.1, as it's called. Now I ask the question, you encourage us to take from the European funds, which is what we're going to keep on that road, which is what we're going to finance and subsidize aunt cook in that kindergarten, which is what we're going to maintain if we don't have the funds and we don't have them? So the funds that we get from European funds are commendable should be used for the most reason why they will launch some investments, which will run some construction works and employ this operation. But what about later? Now, yesterday we discussed, and your club was standing at that point of view of the Gorski Kotar and the unfair indexation. We took their funds because we said they were redeveloped. What will he run for European funds for, what will he prepare for projects? He's going to give the ministry a chance to prepare a project. When he does it as soon as he's financed it, which will pour road 5, 6, 20 kilometers long in an area of 126 km square, a municipality in Gorski Kotar that has a budget of 5, 6 million kuna, if any? And now we've taken away those funds they had. Yesterday we discussed it all day and this is all one package. European funds, yes, but local self-government units must function. Thank God for these 20 years, the existence of a local self-government unit has been established, prepared, implemented by a whole series of projects and without great help and without European funds, and I don't know what not. And now all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, this system collapses, and we don't know what's waiting for us, with no analysis, no statistics, no calculations, no budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93127	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Reply to the replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93128	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, it's not like the whole system's going down. Of course, he has a certain shock that I said, but he's not collapsing. Surely when we talk about which more or less lost, and who will be threatened with a certain liquidity or not be able to solve certain projects, then I would like every unit of local self-government to do its own deep analysis of how the Ministry of Finance is preparing, with ministries and agencies, to tell public companies clearly that they can't solve, that, that, that is my priority. And then I respect every argument of the local self-government unit. And when you speak, there's no analysis, so there's no analysis on your part as much as there's going to be any loss. Am I to believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will provide every unit of local self-government that has the argument that it is threatened and it will provide funds. But we don't have any units of local self-government that argument, and we have the charm of extremely successful, extremely rational, and now they're also losing, to those who don't rationally use the funds mentioning a continuous state audit, they're not paying for it. How did they use funds so far, what did they invest in? To roads that may not go anywhere, etc. Let's be ourselves as a local self-government rational, efficient so let's do a deep analysis and let's say here's the Government of the Republic of Croatia we have so many employees, and there are so many and so many salaries, much higher than in civil servants, and on the other hand we can't finance kindergartens. So we can then discuss who lost more, and who is really threatened in the sense that it can't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93129	Thank you. Slavko Linic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93130	Comrade Gjurkovic, let's go into the essence of things, let's step away from losing, taking, giving. The law on the financing of units of local self-government is a law that shows that the relationship of decentralised functions, what is the relationship of strong local self-government in relation to central government. With this law, you centralize the funds, centralize the funds and leave the management to the minister and take away the rights of mayors, mayors and mayors to manage the funds they have managed to do so. It's called centralization, you don't have it in Plan 21. You're acting against the political declaration on the basis of which you won the election. It's about this. Let's get back to the package, because watch out one and another law has proposed a strange Ministry of Regional Development. We are talking about a new method of regional development, a new one, we are passing a new law. And what do you have in that law? Criteria for determining the 2011 development index. The modern law, two years is passed, three years we haven't been able to change the standards according to today's situation in the Republic of Croatia. And imagine the tragedy, you also have an article that for the next three years you won't change it. For six years, we will not change the criteria and criteria by which the development index is determined. You've eaten him in cities and municipalities that aren't covered. Six years. And you know how they work in Europe? They change them every year. We couldn't change the proposal three years ago, we couldn't. So it's again, not a modern system, going back, and then we have volunteerism, and these are compensatory measures. I don't see in that Croatia that Ivana Posavec Krivec was just talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93131	Srdjan Gjurkovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93132	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, I do not agree with you that the funds are centralized, I respect your arguments, but I believe that the implementation of these laws will clearly show that the funds are not centralized, but that they are smaller, and I will be glad to see that after 6 months the results of the efficiency of local self-government, the skills of the mayor and the mayor in the withdrawal of funds, i.e. the preparation for... funds, because here is the fund that opens up with these 1.5% income taxes and opens another fund of 30 million kuna to make more quality withdrawals and projects work. The development index, the criteria of use, so I would say that at last 100 municipalities and cities that have been waiting for probably 23 years finally enter the system to provide them with what they needed long ago, but I must admit that I agree in part with you that the development index should be monitored continuously, not questionably, and this is as we must monitor both efficiency and ministry and spending resources and efficiency and efficiency and efficiency of local self-government, continuously and then these discussions will be much more justified with facts and figures, and less of course with visions and ideologies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93133	We're moving on to an individual debate. Comrade Ivan Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93134	Thank you very much. Well, I wish tomorrow someone in the debate about the state budget would show me what position this is in all we've been listening to here for two days. And then I'd sign it automatically if I were to support this together. So it's just funny that someone is offering us something without any analytical backgrounds because if this analytical basis is that you put in your head 3 reviews of the source of the necessary resources, then I don't know what an analyst is. However, when we talk about this law which is, in a certain way, a fundamental law for the functioning of units of local self-government, then and for the sake of the public, it should be said that because of Croatian citizens, it is generally funded from what is provided for in Article 43, this second law is a more insignificant revenue, so that we see whether we will fact those who are our dearest and dearest in the situation of some kind of uncertainty. So, pre-school education is funded, primary education is financed, secondary education is financed, social funding is financed, health care is financed in county hospitals, retirement homes are financed, firefighters are financed both by public fire departments and voluntary fire companies, sports associations are financed and cultural arts societies are further. And now we take 2 billion and 200 million kunas and we say nothing will happen, everything will be wonderful and wonderful, and even after we take these indices of development, as if there was no economic crisis in Croatia, as if no company had died in Croatia, as if everything had been confused in 2011. 2011 was practically the third year of the crisis. Let's see that from 2011 to today we have lost 200 thousand jobs, so then we have a million and 540 thousand employees, today in Croatia we have a million and 340 thousand employees. Well, colleagues and colleagues, if those 200 thousand fewer jobs are no reason to change the indexation, then I don't know what the reason is, because that 200 grand paid someone income tax and someone's municipal, city and county budgets were filled with it. No, but it doesn't matter, it's all the same and that's why that puss was made out by the Law on the Fields of Special State Care and the Law on Mountain Areas. If we had the courage to make the Regional Development Act which leads us to better and better use of EU funds and through these EU funds to solve all of these... we have, then practically the Law on areas of special state care and the Law on mountainous mountainous areas should not at all. But when you don't have the courage to take that step, and unfortunately in this government for 3.5 years, it's been happening to the government that I was in, that there wasn't... at the moment of courage to make some things. I'm not going to say, it's been wonderful and wonderful now, but then we get to this and what are we actually discussing today? About what? Whether or not we will submit a tax-consumption form not in that it is a type of tax, but as to who collects the tax. Is that the most important thing? Well, I guess it's the kind of tax that counts and how it's recorded and how it's recorded. No, that article is far more important to us than tax collectors. So if it's killed by a local self-government unit, then for every catering facility in the city, it's practically tolerated to them, but if it kills the IRS, then it's turned over to the company's headquarters, it's just one of the pearls. But Article 43 is just fantastic that someone wants to convince us of something that is indisputable because we're talking about a 12-to-6% reduction here, but let's just say that the tax base has fallen by 18%. Well, then we're no longer down from 12 to 6%, but we're reducing by chance somewhere to 12, to 4, 4.5%. And then logically, what was proposed by the Association of Cities and what was proposed by counterpart Linic, let's give to cities, counties and decentralised functions all the money, and the state that balancing fund simply forms from other tax revenues. It's none of our business. It's none of our business. It's none of our business. So based on those standards that will be proposed by the Minister of Education, the decentralised funds are so much and so much. Because let's say what would happen to determine that this decentralised asset so much and so much that there's not so much income tax revenue, it has to be paid anyway. Therefore, what was touched was not to be touched, which is a decentralised asset, it was blasphemously touched in a country where we all swear to decentralisation. Well, a message to all of them about how the Kukuriku Coalition is looking at decentralisation, that's a clear message. Because if you take this little money too, the first step was a low step in decentralisation in Croatia, and then unfortunately nothing was done anymore. There were two, three more amendments to this law due to certain changes in income tax and now what we are doing, what kind of message we send to people who are directly elected in the elections. So they went by the name and last name with the name and last name were chosen, standing behind some programs. And not to say that nomotechnically it says that the decision of the city or municipalities, the city or municipalities, cannot make a decision can be made by representative bodies, not by the city or municipalities. The city or municipalities are nothing, they're just a noun. But I say this Article 43a is particularly interesting and admit that you are unable to discipline a city and then that city of its citizens, and the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia to go to punish is ridiculous. So if it has been seen from the past years that the city of Zagreb, based on income tax, is making incomes that are above the minimum standards, and the city of Zagreb could only reduce the share of income tax by 0.3, 0.4, 05% and raise them to some level. This participation in income tax was brought because unfortunately, when you look at one or two cities in Croatia, they cross over this 3% to collect enough for schooling and that they can finance education themselves. Everyone else gets funds from decentralised functions, that's our problem, that's our real problem. It's practically the only city in Zagreb that has it. And secondly, I don't understand if we said that savings are paid on a 12% income tax, isn't that income like everyone else and that we all pay taxes according to the place of residence and that income tax is divided by the same key as everyone else. Because we now have categories of income, we have incomes that are paid into the aggregate passing account, and they're divided by key, we have income that's also called interest taxes that are likely to be paid into some other account. And now we're saying that we're going to cover some kind of minus that we took from that income. So we've already taken that income to cities and municipalities because we said that income, all kinds of income, all the shares in that income city and municipality belong to so many and so many. Therefore, if we say that the interest tax is not income, then we should have passed a special law on interest tax and said it was income from the state budget. However, if we put it in the Income Tax Act, and look at the Law on the financing of the unit of local self-government that writes to you, it says that the income of the unit of local self-government is income tax and then we're talking about percentages. So we don't give the citizens that 300 or 400 million as much income tax, we take it from them. Because if I pay the interest tax then it's logical for my Great Gorica to go 5.6% to go to Zagreb County for 16, to go to 12 for decentralised funds, and that this 16% goes to the balancing fund because it's income. There's no income tax, and this is income, and this is not the income. But that's what he says best when you get lost in time and space that's happening. And in this law that follows, we'll talk more. And in the end, it's very interesting on page 10, it says, "from helping to balance institutions within a group of individual activities, but the redistribution must be based on a plan published at least a month before its adoption." So how can you do something if your minimum standards in the government are likely to be adopted in the 3rd, 4th month that's the months when they're adopted by then they're being paid for. How will units of local self-government be able to respect this? So, gentlemen of the deputy minister, I think the government has made a cardinal mistake with these laws. You have made one wrong message and this message is Croatia is centralized, Croatia is not decentralised. But I'm saying don't forget what's being financed from these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93135	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93136	You told your colleague Shuker what message he was sending. We heard in front of the SDP club take the funds to develop, from the HNS to encourage local self-government units to use European funds. In the Kukurik plan, three capital letters wrote decentralisation and now it is our surprise, and we are surprised that the funds that will be found in one place will be one person according to this law, so the minister will deploy justly, honestly, responsible for 548 units of local self-government on the ground. I'm just curious about how we're going to operate on this? And yet we're going back to what we've been saying all along to the budgets of the local self-government unit of their commitment in which it's going to work. How are we going to plan the funds when we have one man who's going to decide everything in his left pocket because he's not going to fit into it and put it in his right hand, so he's going to pull out. I mean, we've been talking all the time since the '90s here, always listening to the story of decentralisation, decentralisation, strengthening units of local self-government. So here's the plan for Kukuriku coalition 21. Let's step up. Now we have a pyramid facing completely upside down. Now there's a minister down on that pyramid speck and we're all up there waiting for that minister with the means to spray them on the ground. So the units of local self-government are the roots, the roots from which life originates in this country. Well, someone here said that the smallest citizen has a chance to talk to his head, head of the local self-government unit, call the communal director on the phone, when someone dies, invites him to a community society to organize his entire life.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93137	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93138	Col. Klaric, if I'm not mistaken when the Deputy Prime Minister is talking about EU funds, then he says that practically local self-government units with this or that are based on a disposition of about 2.5.3 billion kuna. Since most local self-government units in our country will have to participate somewhere with 40%, so a minimum billion kuna practically own funds, its own share in funding EU funds. And look, we're setting up a fund with 115 million kunas. What are we gonna do with that fund? Nothing. Well, it would make more sense if we did it through banks or in some other way. But this fund and this 1.5% for that fund is nothing but deception. Just like that position at the Ministry of Finance, it's just a hoax. So far, income tax directly returned some 400 million from the account and 349 million were aid to local self-government units based on that income censorship, so those below that were being helped. And all together when you add up about 750, 760 million. And now this new position in the Ministry of Finance where income tax returns are and where these funds to help local self-government units are based on income censorship around 540 million. So it doesn't take a great deal of brains and great math to sum up that this was 740 million, this is now 540 million and it's less than 200 million. And with that basis, the most vulnerable unit with the lowest income will receive 200 million kuna. And now that we're adding it all together, then it's not 2 billion anymore, but that amount is probably climbing far more and far stronger, but the more that increased income with a basis for real estate traffic goes exclusively to 30, 40 major cities, the more these others can forget about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93139	Slavko Linic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93140	I can't not be bad, because it always bothers me when professional people, educated people don't know the basic definitions. So more or less the same coalition was in power in 2000 and then we decided to decentralisation and strengthen units of local self-government and then we used the term, it was decentralisation because we gave less into the state budget and we gave more to cities, municipalities and counties. We called it decentralisation. And now that we're taking the reverse, and we're re-moving the state budget under the minister's cap, then we call it development, then we call it discipline. People call it centralization, centralization the opposite of what the coalition has in its programme. Also interest tax and savings income. Income tax. Who does income tax belong to? It should always be the key to the distribution of total income and the total income is known which are, that is, income tax. Therefore, it should be, we do not centralize again under the hat of a minister. He says we'll go back, but my people call it centralization of the joint incomes that belong to the units. It belongs to them. And also the fund of alignment, so I'm the vice president of the government said what it was, giving the stronger ones to help the weaker. What do we have now? Funding decentralised functions independently of force. So I say the city of Zagreb will also seek to finance standards from the settlement fund. Then it's no longer a settlement fund. Economic names are no longer valid in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93141	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93142	Yes, colleague Linic. Although there was a lot of skepticism in 2002 about decentralisation, however, this step had to be taken clearly and openly. But here, as I was saying, it's not about 6%, it's about 4.5%. And when you take the total of the decentralisation base, you take 900 million. When you look at the draft budget for next year then you will see from those decentralisation funds he did not increase 900 million compared to last year. And if it didn't rise by 900 million compared to last year then it means that units of local self-government won't come to the same level. So there's no big brain just what's written here and these unsettling arguments because I'm saying no one wants to respect the Fiscal Responsibility Act. It's easy to do, it's just a little effort, it's going through the budget, and it's going to show that those positions aren't there. And I really don't understand who's in the interest of grabbing that kind of power with you and in principle preventing the development of those who should be creating a competition for encouragement or investors tomorrow in the Republic of Croatia. Well, we haven't all set up economic zones in some mandates for someone to fence and it would be like that, but you just give the local self-government unit and they come up with money for the future through a policy of municipal compensation, a communal contribution, this, that, basically, they're offered to investors. And then we can talk about the responsibility and irresponsibility of local leaders. And also as for wages, look, I didn't like it when I was in the IRS, or when I was later a minister that my people in the IRS had a salary of 5 or possibly 5 and a half thousand kuna. At the same time, people with far less knowledge, without the intention of insulting anyone, have a salary greater than three or four thousand kunas of these people. But let's regulate it with some other law, but not by taking away what they have now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93143	Comrade Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93144	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear gentlemen, deputies, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's the last week and this past two days we've been discussing these laws that, in a direct and indirect way, touch the functioning of local self-government. What we can conclude at the end of the debate on this law is that it is a strong centralisation of funds. This is even the worst form of centralisation because it is bad and centralization when money is taken, but along the way, powers are being taken, the work of local self-government is being reduced, but the work of local self-government units is not being reduced here, but some other laws are increasing, while the funds that have been given to local self-government units have been reduced so far. So I think this is the worst kind of centralization, you're staying with the same or maybe bigger powers and bigger jobs, but the state is reducing your resources. If there was even what the Vice-President of the Government was trying to say that certain cities, or the city of Zagreb, did not return to the state budget the surplus funds left over from these decentralised funds, then this could have been resolved in a different way, but certainly also on the fact that 12% to 12 billion kuna, how much the total income from income tax in the Republic of Croatia amounts to a billion and 440 million kuna. Now that this decreases by 18% how much less the total income tax revenue in the Republic of Croatia will be, now 12% is no longer a billion and 440 as much this year, but it is now 980 million kuna. It's now 980 million kuna. Therefore, by amending the Income Tax Act, which has changed and reduced the total income in the Republic of Croatia from income tax, we have already reduced the units of local self-government by 6%. When those 6% are compared to 6% that would have been effective if they hadn't reduced the total income tax revenue, it now stands at around 4.5%. So it's no longer 6% of the previous ones, before the Income Tax Act comes into force, it's now about 4.5%. And so, I've already said that last week and I've repeated it seems to me today in replications, if we really wanted to compensate for something then first we shouldn't reduce these 6% of decentralised funds, that's the first thing and the second thing, then if a new tax is introduced and that's the interest tax, then we should have left it to the local self-government unit, or at least 60% of how much of this law predicts that local self-government units will remain in the share of income tax,... income tax. So that should have been done, that would have been another 400-500 million kuna units to local self-government. And with regard to what the Deputy Prime Minister said that perhaps in some other change and another phase, compensation will be paid to local self-government units through amendments to the laws that determine concession revenues. It seems to me that he mentioned it to the Deputy Prime Minister if I'm not mistaken, he's also talking about these possibilities. So I'd like to meet us who, not many of us here in the Parliament, that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs has drawn up a draft bill on marine good. I don't know if you two deputies know this, but this law defines how much of the revenues from the maritime well-being concession are used by the county and cities, or municipalities in Croatia. It is 66%, so 66.6% is the income of units of local and regional self-government from concessions on maritime good, and according to the law he made in the draft, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs is reducing it to 60%. So he mentioned earlier Mr. Vice-President how he would add something more to the concessions to the local self-government unit, which would then be a compensation part of what we're talking about today, and exactly the draft bill that came out of the ministry and which can be read on the Ministry's pages, says that through the new Maritime Good Law, he'll even reduce the units of local self-government, especially the county but the total of each of them will be reduced by 6% of that income. When Mr Linic said earlier that because of Zagreb and its inability or that the state does not have enough effective tools and instruments to recover funds from the city of Zagreb that belonged to it with this 12% foundation of decentralised funds, then when I mention the Law on Maritime Good and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, a similar action has been initiated by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs in such a way that the state shipowner and other shipowner in the Republic of Croatia cannot control the use of vignettes as privileged island maps in maritime transport. It forces all of the islanders to work at the end of 2013 to pay 80 kn for each vine and draw from the islanders an additional 5 million kuna because they cannot verify whether a passenger, a ferry driver, abuses someone else's island map, or vignette. I think it's incomprehensible and that because we're not able to do it, not us, but the shipowners or the state's administration are not able to verify whether someone's using an island map. That's why we're going to punish all the islanders who own the vehicle and force them to make new island IDs and to pay for it in the state budget 80 kn, or for somewhere over 50,000 vehicles, that's somewhere around 5 million kunas how much it's going to cost all of that together. And another thing, yet, I have a budget prepared by the Mayor of Dubrovnik-Neretva for 2015, which should now be discussed on December 5th at the County Assembly, so when I look at the data that he has put into this budget on the basis of the knowledge he had on November 15th when he referred this budget to the procedure I don't know, I think that after we passed that law yesterday, after we now adopt these laws that we have left and that we have discussed in these two days that this draft of the county budget really has nothing to do with reality anymore and that it will need to change it as soon and well that it's not adopted because it's really happening with this, which we are discussing really doesn't have much to do with it. And there's, there's been a lot of changes here, and even in the part that we're most talking about, and these are decentralised functions where the other same amounts that were in last year, and this law has made a significant difference. All in all, I don't see any excuse why the government was waiting for November to pass such important laws for the functioning of local self-government. All this knowledge we have today and we knew it five, six months ago. If the government decided for the sake of a presidential campaign or I don't know why, which is why, for other reasons, to allow Croatian citizens to increase wages through the amendment of the Income Tax Act, it was not necessary to do so in this way in order to get local self-government on their knees. And the fact that it may be in the first stage through the amendment of the Income Tax Act will result in an increase in wages to a certain number, or as about a million Croatian citizens are said to be, that there will be an increase in salary in the first stage, in the second stage when units of local self-government will no longer be able to provide the service that was put before them with the law will result in an increase in these services, and ultimately I fear that at the end of the day, citizens will have damages from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93145	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93146	Comrade Bačić, in your speech you often used it incomprehensible. Now, after this item of the agenda, we will discuss the Law on the Communist Economy, the funds of the local self-government units, so according to the new model, will be able to spend and not purposefully. You mentioned maritime well-being, so those marine-good funds will probably no longer have to be invested in the marine well-being, but we won't be able to pay with it, I don't know what. But what I've come across is basically a replica between all these discussions and what really hurts is an injustice to the units of local self-government that I personally know because I'm practically in it and I live in the Gorski Kotar with an indexation of development. And now we come to what the minister will have. Now I've spoken to one of our community chiefs and now imagine the situation. These days, the town of Chabar has received poof from that fund two million and one hundred thousand kunas, the municipality of Moravica five thousand and eight hundred kunas for help because of these damages that have been caused. What are the criteria? What are the models? Or is it exactly what Dr. Milinovic mentioned that we want to buy cities, municipalities? These are the revenues that local self-government units need, which are made in the area of units of local self-government, whose units of local self-government can dispose of, plan what and how to build and how to raise standards for their citizens. And different models are also needed and we will all support those units of local self-government both in Slavonia and in islands, in the Dalmatian hinterland exactly how and how it can be financed to reach a certain level of development. In the part where someone who's a successful Matulji, Buzet connects, it's an example and a comparison with some Lokva, Skrad, the Moravica boat. It's crazy for my people and it's unfair, deeply unfair with this indexation that's been done, with everything that's been going on with us without me talking to the fiscalization itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93147	Thank you. Branko Bacic, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93148	I agree with my colleague Klaric that it was necessary to do so, and in fact yesterday in the debate on the Regional Development Act, it was necessary to approach the amendments to the law differently. In view of that law that was changed, which was in the public debate, I said that this final bill that was discussed yesterday "the rocking hills were born a mouse". I'd define it that way. I believe that first of all, new indices were to be established, to respect the many criteria that are ultimately the end and the associations, it seemed to me that the association of cities, and other associations mentioned that first, other criteria would be applied, which would define the index of development of a particular unit of local self-government, and then set off to make a right amendment of the law, where other means could then be allocated and respect the fact of the Gorski Kotar and the island, and I also said that yesterday in the debate. Because I think the speaking development index, which has been identified, does not essentially affect the real state of, for example, numerous Croatian islands, and especially small Croatian islands, which are composed of large developed units of local self-government, which are not related to such measures. Therefore, it seems to me that this law, as you yourself said, was to be interpreted differently. Then this law we're discussing now would be where and where fairer to those units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93149	Vice President Milorad Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93150	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Namely, this law, as well as the wave of all colleagues and colleagues who have discussed it, should be seen in the context of previous laws, the Income Tax Act that we have voted on, the Regional Development Act, so that I see this law as a correction of income, that is, how to in some way reduce the lack of income which will have units of local self-government based income tax. When it comes to this law, then it is inevitable to talk about both problems and the situation in municipalities, cities and counties, so I will also try to make my contribution and my view of it. There has been a number of debates over several cities and municipalities will lose. Part of the income yes. However, it was not said that the citizens of those units would receive local self-government. That's what no one here has said. Furthermore, municipalities and cities will not be able to function. Well, some municipalities and cities can't work right now. When we discussed the Regional Development Act, I made it clear that we had finally started to talk seriously about it and that it was necessary, inevitably to move forward, I hope that this would follow the Regional Development Strategy, and a more detailed debate on the reform of local self-government. All of us in this House have discussed reports of state audits related to thematics and all of the things that have been done in municipalities and cities, reports, etc. We have seen and we are aware of a series of problems and now and before these laws were passed where incomes are reduced by units of local self-government we were aware that certain units and which were neither supported nor are now very difficult to function. The question is, why? There's a few reasons for that. First of all, it is difficult to define how many units of local self-government are allowed to have employees. It's hard to determine if he can have a small unit of one vehicle, two, three or five. So, a number of things are left behind, which I think is also fine with, respect for certain conventions, certain practices, is reduced to responsibility. Not only the representative body, but those executives who run the municipality or the city. These laws are not adopted for this reason to introduce order, which could be heard, but we are simply aware of the fact that the deficit of the state budget is projected to have no money in the cash register in the consolidated part and this is a purely technical redistribution to compensate in some way for certain effects of reducing income to local self-government units. However, this part also reduces the country's revenues. It calls for one level of solidarity. I can't agree that this is centralization, it's simply redistributing the same money. Did someone get a little more, someone a little less, but what's crucial and what I didn't hear today is that they got our citizens. It was also the thesis of counterpart Klaric, he is gone now, he has received funding, he has made a kindergarten and is later established that he cannot finance the kindergarten. I ask the question why did he go to build it that way? So even before these reforms, he couldn't maintain and pay for the cold drive of kindergarten. ... Comrade Shuker, he'll be able to pay for it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You know very well 2 key things that are economic categories, it is a question of sustainability and now there will be an expression of the ability of local leaders and that category of risk management. As far as risk management is concerned, we in northern Croatia know very well from a number of previous years, which means it. We have not learned much, we have never had much and this lack that will be in our budgets be assured will not be necessary. Management will work, kindergarten will work, schooling and everything will work. Of course, if we had room on the cold drive, there isn't. Because we were forced by one of the central states run by your party, forced to be savings and splendourous. You have an average city size of 15 thousand inhabitants, 30 employees at the level of the Republic of Croatia. 30 employees! Categories, you have certain environments where 125 citizens are employed in the administration. Look north, of 700, 800, 900 and even some units per 1,000 inhabitants of 1 employee. They work, they have kindergarten, we've paid transportation to high school kids when the state didn't want to. First she gave and then she took again. We've funded JPP, built infrastructure, survived, and we'll survive again. The fact is, further, the injustice that was done by indexation was mentioned. I agree there's no ideal law, justice, it's hard to achieve. This development index, I'm going to repeat what I said yesterday in the debate, it's an applicable, credible indicator for regional self-government levels. Large cities, I don't know Rijeka, Osijek, Split, Dubrovnik, perhaps some cities of about 70 thousand inhabitants, but for units less than that we will get as much as colleagues Shuker like to say "shucker." But in a positive context. Namely, what's this about? The size of the sample on which you can examine something, I was suggesting, and I believe that, I see that the Deputy Minister confirms, through the strategy, more factors affecting the development index. To get exactly in these smaller environments one far more quality plastic image, which means development and what level of development we're talking about. Furthermore, as regards the kindergarten of counterpart Klaric, we all at local level must have some strategic documents that guide us towards a specific goal. When we do strategic documents, we need to be guided by a sustainability element and not enter, because the cheapest thing to do is build something, but you're not going into construction unless the feasibility study shows you that you can service it and maintain it. A particular mass of us, as far as I know our colleagues from the north, have had wonderful projects, perspective projects, sustainable projects that would be coming today, we've been looking for state support, we haven't got. But we didn't go into realisation, you'd say blind. Far from any environment where there is an interest, where there is a number to build kindergartens, to build schools, to build social infrastructure. But I'm saying we need to be rational, we need to be reasonable that it doesn't happen that certain of our fellow commissioners, I know about the commissioners, they drive cars that are somewhere around 350,000 kunas, and I think the state is still paying him to function as a local self-government. It's not a rule, I never want to generalize, but that there are such cases definitely yes. So as well as the club, I will uphold this law. I'm saying it's purely technical. We have raised our hand for this law since we voted on the Income Tax Act, therefore this is the sequence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93151	Now we have five replicas on your exhibit. Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93152	Thank you very much. So, respected counterpart Batinic, you said that units of local self-government would get less, but that we skipped that information that citizens of these same municipalities and cities would get more. The truth is that those who have more will get more, and those who have less will get less. Because we've already heard that those who have a salary of 15 thousand kuna will get 1,000 kuna more in a month, while those with 4000, 5000 kuna will get only 50 kuna. And when the city has less funds, it will certainly separate less for social benefits, and for scholarships, and for transportation to high school students, help the sick, the disabled. So again those who have fewer will suffer, and all these laws and amendments to the law we have passed and brought under the pretext of a fairer society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93153	Milorad Batinić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93154	Thank you very much. Well, you're probably going to agree with me that I'm not in the field, we've simply defined that for many years, and when it goes linearly, when it goes in a certain percentage, I don't think there's any dilemma and that you don't have dilemmas. You said when units of local self-government would get less to get less for the welfare, so we brought this House a new Social Care Act, which is a set discharge of local self-government units. How much do you pay for high school transport, please? Up to 100%? [[Intruder: 130 kuna per month, participating up to 100%.]] You weren't listening. We were paying, Varazdin County and cities were paying 100% transportation. We were at the income level as we are now. And plus we funded JPP, and of course we have schools and we have halls. To laugh at fellow Shucker. ... The intruder can't be heard. So I can't agree with you, especially not with Vodice. We discussed together how much budget you have, I wish I were at least 50% of the percapital budget like your Guides, but I'm satisfied with what I have. I wish it was more. So it's definitely not standing. It is primarily up to us, so on the leaders, on the representative body, to initiate a certain reform within ourselves and ultimately to sit with the authorities and define ourselves in the future what communities and cities will look like.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93155	Milorad Batinić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93156	Thank you very much. Well, you're probably going to agree with me that I'm not in the field, we've simply defined that for many years, and when it goes linearly, when it goes in a certain percentage, I don't think there's any dilemma and that you don't have dilemmas. You said when units of local self-government would get less to get less for the welfare, so we brought this House a new Social Care Act, which is a set discharge of local self-government units. How much do you pay for high school transport, please? Up to 100%? [[Intruder: 130 kuna per month, participating up to 100%.]] You weren't listening. We were paying, Varazdin County and cities were paying 100% transportation. We were at the income level as we are now. And plus we funded JPP, and of course we have schools and we have halls. To laugh at fellow Shucker. ... The intruder can't be heard. So I can't agree with you, especially not with Vodice. We discussed together how much budget you have, I wish I were at least 50% of the percapital budget like your Guides, but I'm satisfied with what I have. I wish it was more. So it's definitely not standing. It is primarily up to us, so on the leaders, on the representative body, to initiate a certain reform within ourselves and ultimately to sit with the authorities and define ourselves in the future what communities and cities will look like.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93157	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93158	Thank you very much. So I didn't want to talk about something that has official documents as much as it was according to the law and everything, which is this famous JPP. There's budgetary surveillance that went beyond the criteria, etc. But as much as it is as you have now taught colleagues Klaric and some others, the calculation best speaks about that two years ago if I'm not mistaken, the HNS Club has conditioned support for the budget, I think there was some 70 such million kunas or something less in the Varazdin County for financing JPP. And you well know fellow Batinić that all units of local self-government in the area of the Varazdin County, as you like to say from the north, have come into trouble because of this JPP. Yeah, well, if that's not the case, then get the money back into the state budget that co-finances it. It's a fact and we can talk anyway. But very interesting how rhetoric changes when we are in power and when we are in opposition. If this had been done, if someone had touched your decentralised functions four years ago, so I think it would have been a world war on how it could be touched. Today, it's a very interesting technical correction. No, it's not a technical adjustment at all. Here with this reduction from 12 to 4.5% not to 6 because the base is downgraded to the basic principles of decentralisation. You have automatically touched what is still unfortunately in Croatia in turn. And I understand that you want to justify it, but I'm going to tell you what I was saying when I was talking about the Income Tax Act, if you really meant to raise wages, etc. So why didn't you raise the first part taxing 12% from 2200 to 2600 instead of leaving it at 2200? So to those who have the least of them, we're not going to give those 50 and how many kunas, 52 kunas for those 400 kuna, but we're going to give it to those who have the highest wages. This is something that's freakish, as far as local self-government is concerned, and I totally agree with my colleagues who say this isn't any help, nothing. This is the total centralization of the state to make it easier to manage.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93159	Milorad Batinić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93160	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, if we are going back in 2005, the fact is that Croatia did not then have the Law on JPP. I personally went to the Minister Primorac at the time, it was my school in... and as a member of a team with the mayor at the time we went to know him about this problem, we suggested certain ways how, so we shouldn't have invented hot water that was long ago invented, very well functioning in the European community, we just wanted to apply it to.... We've received a reluctance. When we started that story, when we started, it was known how much the county was funding, how many units of local self-government. When I was talking about JPP, it was legal, so it was legal. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, no, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Shuker...... Comrade Shuker, you were then, I don't know if you were the Minister of Finance then, I think you were or were nearby, you had everything very transparent. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Don't do it.]] Today there are contracts, what your colleagues in municipalities and cities say was untransparent, it's a complete lie. The contract was on the representative body. Every unit of the local, every citizen could get an insight into a public private partnership contract. So, definitely. Thank God the JPP Act was passed. Of course, for each investment, the JPP did not sign, contracted for one school because it was not worth it. Nothing has happened since we practically implemented it and what law today has not changed. Of course they're corrections, today they're more known and there's more experience in it. Do I want to justify it or not? No, I'm just saying how many colleagues, not just me, as head of local self-government, will not say prevail or I can say overcome this part of what you're saying. Yeah, income cuts, I agree, but we'll survive. Not survive, but exist, build and invest with an income of 1100 kuna per capita.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93161	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93162	Madam Vice President, you've injured Article 238, because Mr. Vice President of the Parliament has said something that you're Vice President of the Parliament and a parliamentary representative should never allow, and that is that the official finding from the body of a state-level institution who's a lawman has said that it's a simple lie. I told you my colleague Batinić, and I'm sorry we even got into this debate, but the arrogance you're talking to made me tell you this. So there's budgetary surveillance that found that JPP was contrary to the Budget Law, and you can say whatever you want and that's not a lie. That's why you should have warned him.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93163	I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure because I don't know what that find was, and you here are arguing as two MPs in the Croatian Parliament and I don't think that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Col. Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93164	Well, here I am, colleague Batinić, I don't think you've called me, I'm even grateful that you mentioned this kindergarten, and it's not one, we've built them anymore, and we built it without JPP, without credit, with your resources and, fortunately, in my area, 320 children, all located in kindergartens and we ask no one, and we'll fight for our citizens still. But you said one important thing when it was built and a feasibility study or... a study, as they like to say. All units of local self-government, including those in Gorski Kotar who were doing something and building and taking loans had these calculations, were not people working on.... And what happened to them now, who could have told them a year ago, two that they wouldn't have these assets that they now have according to an index that you yourself said was unfair and could be applied to big cities. That's what you said. And you said it could be... for them, and we heard the Deputy Minister yesterday that it couldn't be changed because the criteria were hard to make, that it would take years, and even 3 years to make something. And people were building what you mentioned, and kindergarten and some kind of water line, counting, taking credit to realize certain projects that would return from those funds that they needed to be, that they were counting on to have in the budget. They don't have them now. According to everything we've been discussing for two days, these people don't have it. We can say whether it's a fair, unfair, applicable index here or there, but it's a fact and we all see it, and we know that these cities and municipalities have lost something they've had so far, that they could certainly count on. One hand-lifting here is going to change that and then they have to wait from... the means for some minister to make a decision, and we know how those decisions are made. And we waited in my area for two years to solve some kind of land in the business zone who was waiting for a business subject and ran by not knowing how many offices here in Zagreb. That's how the minister will operate with 548 units of local self-government and with centralized funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93165	Thank you. Milorad Batinić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93166	Thank you, Vice President. I don't know. I don't know. I didn't say he was telling a lie, I said that when his colleagues say that they were stuck for JPP's sake, it was a lie. Well, okay. I hope I get a chance to explain it to him when he's in the assembly. Comrade Klaric, when I was talking about this construction... Here, fellow Shuker, I hope... Namely, counterpart Klaric, the issue is the very structure of the budget of individual units of local self-government. If he's specific, if we're talking about the construction of kindergartens, if he's in debt, if he's taken credit and the only available funds he's got with it, then he's sorry, he can't manage the budget and he can't do it. ... Let's let the law go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You've been in local self-government for a very long time, and you know very well, you know your budget structure, you know what part of it you can be in charge of and how to be in charge. But that's what I was saying about risk management. In 2009 to '10, how much did your budget go down? I dropped 25% of everyone's 25. If we did, and I'm saying we've been able to get through that part, we've managed to get rid of it. This right now, I don't know how much it's going to be to cut a few percent of everything. So you're both aware that some units of local self-government simply can't satisfy the basic element that's sustainability. That doesn't mean abolishing, no, but the issue of jurisdiction within certain municipalities, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93167	Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93168	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Obviously fellow Batinić I would like to share your optimism which I do not know what is really based on or have information that some of us do not have or is about one... You say they'll get citizens, they won't get municipalities if I understand correctly they'll get citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Citizens can get and be satisfied but municipalities and cities have other tasks and other functions, that's what this is about. On the other hand, we heard here today whether at this point or earlier, but it still refers to the same thing, so it will not be here but let it focus on EU funds. So EU funds are also a one-time source of funding. On the other hand, you say we need to be reasonable, so it can be reasonable and rational if there is one common development strategy. A common strategy in your risk management terminology, but that's not there. We simply didn't get those strategies, or if we got them, we got it in one reduced form. We have a strategy last week or 10 today we are an education strategy where in five years it should come from 3% of GDP to 6% of it, and there's nothing in this budget either. I think we're building things in quicksand. And the logic that from philosophy that we have to be happy is that according to one philosophy of poverty we have to survive that it's maximum to us, it just doesn't make sense. And to say that we should turn inside ourselves to reforms in these circumstances and what counterpart Klaric said means that those who will be closer to the authorities will then from the compensation funds something, and others will not. It just can't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93169	Thank you. Reply to the replica Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93170	Thank you, Madam Vice President. What do I base my optimism on? Well, colleague Tudjman, I'm an irreparable optimist, probably from character. And what I've been discussing and what I've been talking about is based on the experience of 2005. a sample of 10 years, so I think it's still a quality pattern that I can pass on certain experiences, and of course you could also notice that I'm discussing the basis of these experiences. Of course, each of us leaders have their own experiences, but I think more or less they can shrink into a very one let's say objectively looking isn't too much of a subject that we're more different, we're more alike than different. You're talking strategy, yes, we had a strategy that was adopted in 2008. It seems to me or in 2009 we had the same indexation at the time, but unfortunately neither this strategy nor this law on regional development has revived or functioned at all. This is the last thing you said we were closer to the fire, unfortunately it worked for your government's rule back then. There was no respect for the development index, no respect for itself simply. When you came to the Regional Development Fund then they asked you what color uniforms you were, ok. I've got oranges, I don't have blues, so I can't get reds, so I can't get ok. We're just doing the same thing because I'm talking from experience, we survived, but we got over it. Oh, yeah, yeah, from experience I'll also tell you that I've run for certain projects and let's tell our authority what the reluctance we've got. Why? Well, because the project wasn't adequate for what it was supposed to be. So we still have to make arguments and facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93171	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93172	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My dear colleague, above all, in that part, I share moderate optimism, but I'm primarily a realist. But you're on that really from experience what we've been through we can highlight two basic facts from your debate. The first fact that I would point out is that I really need to move to a reconstruction of all local units and regional ones as soon as possible, and that we need to work a little bit better on some more concrete arguments and indicators of local unit work. Then there wouldn't be what you yourself pointed out that how some unit if you were compared to there are about 10,000 residents, one has 8 employees in professional services, here's mine, and someone for the same population has 30 employees. In order to make it possible for someone who has about 3 to 4 thousand inhabitants in that area to have a budget and this direct budget revenue of more than 20, 30 million kuna, and in that part gets support or is under 75% of the development by induction. And you said yourself from the experience that I and the mandate can say that when we asked for nearly 6.7 years ago for support for the construction of the library we didn't get it, we did projects, so we did it from the EU Fund. So we asked for channelling support, we didn't get it, so we financed ourselves from the EU Fund and project documentation to the building permit, so we asked for support for investment in the entrepreneurial zone, so we didn't get it, so we went, we made projects from the European Union Fund, so we did it ourselves. Is it just a matter of being lucky and having a positional rent so that you have good income and even good capital support from other levels or you need to have a lot of and here's optimism like you said, so what we... learnt to start working and achieve certain means. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93173	Thank you very much. And now proceed with the debate. Comrade Marijan Škurić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93174	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's what I'd do in that part. This part of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government is a kind of final of a set of laws that we have had in the debate these few days. The first is the Income Tax Act, the Regional Development Act, also the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, the Law on Special Government Care. And when we talk about these laws and applying this Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, then we have to look at what we want to achieve with all these laws. So first of all, about funding units of local and regional (regional) self-government, we want to achieve the goal that all our units of local, regional self-government can be, have a developmental character. They must also be able to go to investments, investment for development and everything in that capital section for infrastructure, for the development of the economy and of course for the development of the social segment, people are very important. So when we look at that part and another factor is that in each part we can apply and use the European Union funds. So when we talk about that part of development capacity and possibilities, then this set of laws, especially this part, on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, can also say that in some, in all things, it can absolutely achieve that part. Especially the possibility of investment and the possibility of even development. When we talk about the distribution of income tax, we must also point out that income tax is obtained at the place of residence, that is to say that bigger environments, here we are talking about Zagreb, although we have mentioned a lot of it, and we have complained that the vast majority of such income is obtained in Zagreb and the larger environments and the smaller part of it is acquired in those environments that need much larger development components, a larger impulse, a greater incentive, and from this will be difficult to realise. On the other hand, when we talk about the possibility of the distribution of real estate tax, I can also say that when we deal with real estate we know again by the principle of positional rent, where these properties are sold today, not just today and at what prices. So we know that prices in the south are ten times the price we have in northern Croatia and there again I see no fair redistribution for these support that are not now, today, a year, two than 10 years ago and more. Also when we define the possibilities of applying and obtaining funds from the European Union funds then we are talking about really defining a specific fund, this fund will be able to finance the possibility of pre-financing, meaning the creation of project documentation, education and, of course, what is most important, the possibility of funding and only the participation needed for European Union projects. It's mostly about 15%. If you have a good program, if you have a good content that is valorised at all levels, then it would be a shame that because of the inability and these own funds, this project is not implemented and especially not implemented by the European Union funds. What we've also discussed about indexation, that indexation we've defined is what it is, it's worth a long number of years, but this is finally part of the courage that we can go into its change, that we can start talking about it, and that what I want to say in the end is all almost said tonight, but how these sets of laws are going to have a major impact on the work of local and regional self-government, and that whole set of laws, and we still need to see what kind of evaluations are going to be. We also talked about the assessment of real estate tax and the assessment of interest tax on savings with the desire of course that if we have some final economic growth next year that it will be bigger, then we can make that part fairer. But one important thing must not happen again, and that is that after a year, if these indicators don't show up the way we should see that all of us at the level of local (regional) self-government have come into trouble so that we can't meet our obligations. Obligations are fixed, each city or municipality has a school, i.e. if, decentralised, has a kindergarten, must have a library, must have a fire department, it must have some associations that still make up part of the city. It must also have a part in the municipal infrastructure development area, without which we cannot remain. We can't even stay so that we can't satisfy the sequence of activities that we've already imposed before some of our content, activities, programmes. So we have years of programs that we need to contribute from these funds. And what I also said at the beginning, the real losers of those 65 cities and municipalities that have lost their support, who have come out of the support of the mountain-mounted area and by indexation have no possibility of getting support on that level. The fall is great, the fall is over... % for each individual local unit which will lose its income on the basis of such a part and such positions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think that's allowed. Therefore, a minimum of what I propose, after 6 months, each unit of local self-government must report on the implementation of the budget. And after six months I think that already from the state level, we know the level of local self-government and it would be minimal if we had a debate in this Croatian Assembly about all the effects, the measures that we have achieved in this set of laws. And that it is really not allowed that if these indicators are wrong to happen by the end of the year with such measures or in two years we come into a position that many of us will not be able to cover our basic functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93175	Thank you. Port of Denon, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93176	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy. The law that we are discussing tonight, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units, is only the result of all those discussed and passed laws that we have had these days and discussed and adopted. First of all, when we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, we passed that law, and he subsequently conditioned that these laws and today as we discuss it. I'm not a mathematician like my colleague Boluncic, of course I'm not even aware of such things as former finance ministers or future finance ministers, but I have some logic that here I can't figure out that in this whole day's debate about this law that when it's less that it's something more. I can't understand it, so no matter how we turn it around, I'll simplify it. We're dealing with numbers that are distributed or redistributed, not to say that it's taken, so I'm going to say redistributed, it's modern today, and from the local self-government and administration unit someone says a billion and 800, I heard 2 billion today, so it jumped to 2 billion and 100, so now I don't know how redistributed it is, but let's say that two billion has been redistributed. The compensatory measures that are planned and through these laws to activate would be redistributed and I wouldn't say it would come back, to be equal in termology, somewhere around 400 million kuna, if I gave a good understanding, roughly, not to go these percentages 5, 2, 3, minus, plus, through all these laws. Now if someone can explain it to me that it's the same or that it's more, try it, I'll listen even if I repeat it 10 times, I'm still just one small parliamentary representative, so just say again to me that I realize that it's redistributed a little bit more, and then when it comes back a little bit less that it's still more. But I am, of course, sad because I have experience from local self-government and administration, and I understand and of course there will always be a latent conflict between the central state and local self-government, which is good and what is normal, and it should not make any big spectacle of it because it is in the nature of the central government to take as much of it as possible, and in the nature of local self-government to get closer to its citizens and to be able to solve the problems of its citizens. And I think it's a good thing that these tensions exist, and if that's the case, I'll always be on the side of the local self-government unit because I think it's where incomes are made, where people are, where there are problems and where authorities are closer to those people who have problems, these problems can be solved far easier and faster. I'm sorry that in 2002, if I remember correctly, that first step in decentralisation of the state that we claimed to be very centralised by then, and I'm sorry that we stopped at that first step and, of course, I'm sorry, however this is now said that or not, it seems to me that it's half a step back. Yet part of these funds through these redistributions will be centralized and will not be available to local self-government units. That's not good. As a supporter of local self-government units, I think it is not good and that the state of Croatia will always be better and stronger as the stronger units of local self-government. And that's why it bothers me when we hear the qualifications that we heard in these discussions, they may have slipped by chance but we heard them, that the leaders of individual local self-government units will be irresponsible, spoiled and not know what else. It may be, but in most cases these leaders are units of local self-government chosen by the people we're redistributing these money we're talking about right now, they're chosen by them and they're there not because they're beautiful and smart but I believe they fit these people and they meet their needs as they expected. So I agree with Mr. Vice President and his optimism that we will survive. Of course we'll survive. The only thing I can't agree is that it's all going to work out because it can't be if you're missing something in your total recently, like a billion things, that everything's going to work out the same way. It'll work harder, worse, but it'll work. Because just because we've introduced compensatory measures and compensated that rhetoric itself means that what we've brought, which is this law or that income law, that something's wrong. So we messed up somewhere, and now we have to compensate. That's how it sounds, that's how it can be characterized. Now, if that compensation is going to be enough, I don't believe it, but we're going to be able to manage and function in local self-government units for sure. In the end, if unfortunately we don't function well in local self-government units. You know, they're not just spoiled there, and as I said to the irresponsible chiefs. There are smart commissioners there, and of course, if they're just as busy in the budgets, they're going to redistribute. And you know how they'll redistribute if they miss it? By perhaps increasing the municipal fee or some service prices available as public services to citizens in the areas where they live. So we're really going to spin around in circles. And I think there was, and also through these amendments that we get on the bench maybe there was an easier, simpler model of how it can be done to redistribute and that this income tax law that goes and will get citizens, that it could somehow be compensated differently by playing with income tax and income tax. And that's where we've seen these huge amendments that we have that might have been a little bit simpler and a little different and it wouldn't have happened. I hope that there is still enough reason to respect some of these amendments, so it will also facilitate the units of local self-government this redistribution they have and that they will be able to function on equal terms and that everything will work in good order and in this next year which is before us. And what I have to say is, we've talked a lot about solidarity here. Of course, you need to be solid to those units of local self-government that they don't have. But you know how it goes, that solidarity seems to me that somehow more has fallen on the burden of units of local self-government. Because if we look at that total income of all that money coming from us citizens, then 905 is in the state budget, and 10% on all these 500 and so many units of local self-government, so if we're solid, then it should have been done to, that's a 10% on all local self-government units and 90% on the state. Because you know how it works? If we've enjoyed it equally, we should pay the same, and here we don't seem to have paid the same, but about that. I don't think these compensatory measures will, of course, help, but local self-government units have a problem and they will. But that they're going to come out of this problem and they're going to know that in a different way. I'm only sorry that part of these amendments may not be accepted, and perhaps they would be useful in solving all of these dubious things that we're talking about tonight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93177	Thank you. We have a replica of Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93178	Comrade Denon, you said it was incomprehensible to you that it could mean less how we were presented here tonight. It's just as incomprehensible to me. I'm afraid it's going to be understandable especially when we're not coming from the same area. To those who will raise their hand from the seventh, eighth electoral unit for such laws, and we have heard here before in the debate that our leaders who have built something in due time have invested funds, kindergartens, infrastructure. We're talking about units in the Gorski Kotar. When they were doing a study of justification, feasibility, when they calculated how they would return it all later, they had one law that provided them with a fuse to serve it in the means they had. Here with these laws one hand-lifting out of the seventh, the eighth electoral unit there is the possibility that these smallest ones will be left without those funds and the question is how they will continue to serve all their obligations and how they will function as a unit of local self-government. To you, incomprehensible to me, it seems very understandable to someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93179	Thank you. Your colleague Denon's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93180	Comrade Klaric, in my presentation, I also showed some optimism because my fellow deputy somehow gave me directions to be optimistic and should be. You know we've had a thousand problems in local self-government units in the Primorje-Gorski County, but we've dealt with them both through agreement and conversation and solidarity towards each other. And in any case, we expect that in this case, from the state, to be solid and not to be opposed to local self-government. Because local self-government is not an opponent of the central government. She'll just fight for bigger incomes, for greater powers and for those powers to be paid out of money that's our money, and that we don't have to knock on the door, so now give us because it's our money, but you took it up and you have it with them. That's not the point of decentralisation. I think that decentralisation should have taken another step since 2002, even stronger into decentralisation, and I am sure that then the Republic of Croatia in all its space and territory and where it was less developed would have been stronger, stronger and that it would be more receptive for this entry into Europe and for European funds and that one better prosperity could be expected in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93181	Thank you. And the final deputy minister, Jacksa Pugliz. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93182	Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. Here's very short in this late hour for the ns that we're still here, but I have to briefly address this topic. This is one of these laws from the law package that introduces significant changes that are partly due to the fact that as a government we have simply decided to tax-deliver Croatian citizens part of it is the cause, and the other part is the cause of what we talked about yesterday all day, which is that the full application of the index is finally being introduced as the basic basis for categorising the area towards development and for granting state aid. This law, of course, includes both aspects. So, on the one hand, it includes an aspect that the unit of local self-government which is indeed the one who will take on the burden of tax discharge of citizens to reduce this burden as far as possible through different mechanisms. And on the other hand, the amendments to this law ensure what I said further harmonising the incentive measures to the application of the development index. When we talk about compensation or compensation of units of local self-government, so evaluations speak, it is, of course, difficult to simulate the amount of income in 2015 exactly but the simulations made by the Ministry of Finance say that the expected loss of income will be 1.8 billion kuna. Changes in this law guarantee a certain type of compensation, which is an increase in the share of income tax from 56.5% to 60% for all units of local self-government and that is, let's not forget these 1.5% for the EU Project Co-financing Fund. So we're talking about 5%. What's specific to the fund is that the funds from that fund will not automatically be allocated to whoever paid the funds. Therefore, it is not the intention of the one who has paid a million kuna automatically from that fund, but is intended to ensure through this fund that units of local self-government are stimulated to use the EU fund through one competitive approach. Therefore, between 150 and 170 million kuna will be paid annually, those units that have ready-made projects and will first come to that amount very easily. Why are we doing this? Because we are convinced that the future of investment, public investment from the state level and the future of public investment from local and regional levels depends on the use of EU funds. And they're currently using very little. Most investments currently in the Republic of Croatia co-financed by EU funds are at national level. Which is not a situation in other Member States. Approximately two-thirds of EU funds are used by local and regional self-government units, two-thirds. If we have received 10.7 billion euros from the EU, it is not difficult to calculate two-thirds. And that's the money that should end up in the budgets of local self-government units. And we say that local self-government units are still not fully active. There are distinct differences, express. And what we especially don't see enough is the preparation of projects. What we want to do and with these amendments to the law, we want to make it really very specific to stimulate them. There are 150 to 170 million kunas that can become four times or five times the amount. If on these 150 or 170 million kuna those 15% participations, then it's easy to calculate what the total investment potential is. The finance ministry's data suggests that units of local self-government invest about 3.2 billion kuna annually in investment, each year. It varies plus, minus 5%. From that, a small part is co-financed by EU funds. So, as much as there is talk of funds, as verbally as it has been encouraged, and has shown willingness to use these funds in large parts of local self-government units, there is still not enough readiness to seriously approach the preparation for the use of EU funds. Competitions that have been published so far and competitions that will be announced over the next 6 months will, especially those that will be published, show us whether there has been a change of direction in this regard. We believe that this will significantly, therefore, make up for large part the EU funds' orientation so far, this dominant source of local public investment, which is its own sources. And there's really going to be one change in structure as there's a change in structure at the state level. Over 7 billion kuna investments co-financed by EU funds were planned for next year in the state budget. We hope that a large part of these investments will end, i.e. that expenditure on the state budget, as income in local self-government units. If they have projects. These 150 to 170 million kunas are a concrete incentive and help to make this happen. We will very well monitor the use of these funds and regularly publish who was as successful as possible. How many units she's paid at the same time. As the EU does for Member States, so will we do for local self-government units. So we'll see who's trying transparently, and who's not trying hard enough or just isn't successful enough yet. Sometimes there is also a need for more efforts to obtain funds from EU funds. We believe there's room for... In local self-government, we believe it exists. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The data that we have and which are talking about continuing the growth of the number of employees in local self-government, so in times of crisis, when the number of employees at the state level is stagnating and the number of employees in the private sector has soared the number of employees in local self-government. And not for a while. What the figures say is not small increases that cannot be justified only by additional transactions taken by the state. The salary mass has also increased. At the same time, if we compare 2008-2013 state budget 21.6 billion kuna and 2008-2013 Local self-government from 1.9 to 2.12. Budgetary users from 2.4 to 2.64. So, as we have said in the EU funds, there are extremely large differences in the ability and efficiency of units to use funds. And I'm also convinced that there are marked differences in units in terms of efficiency and governance. And I believe that a large part of these compensations will unfortunately have to come from a more rational business in the work of the units. And finally, as far as carrying the load, the simulations he had told me that more than 80% of the units would have a decrease between 2 and 5%. If we're going to talk about the real burden who's going to take it, then you know it. The largest cities will bear it, first of all the capital. Of these 1.8 billion kunas, the greatest burden will be borne by the capital. We can talk about each unit individually is not a problem, compare data, but let's be aware that this burden of tax discharge has also been unevenly distributed but in the function of regional development in a way that truly the City of Zagreb has borne the greatest burden. And that, in our opinion, is only right and right, and it was only possible in this situation. And what we said, unit income, income from income tax will not end up in the state budget for anything other than for the needs of local self-government units, it is not distributed for any other expenditure. It's money again to return to local self-government units. What the simulation also showed is that reducing the share of decentralised functions from 12% to 6% and increasing the share of the settlement fund gives us absolutely enough amount to cover all needs according to standards for decentralised functions. It wasn't done by heart. It was based on the calculation, it was indeed shown that individual units, i.e. one unit, through a share in decentralised functions, generates a surplus of income. We found a model to get to that, too. So let me say, this redistribution was in the role of regional development as much as possible. Of course the burden exists, but the burden is not even distributed near equal. Far the greatest burdens will be borne by the richest units if we talk about absolute amounts. That's it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93183	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of Comrade Tušak, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93184	Thank you, Vice President. You've injured Article 233. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament have you allowed the speech to be final...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93185	Please just the microphone closer, I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93186	... did you allow the speech to the final deputy minister to Mr. Jakshi Pugliz, and he is not listed as those who need to explain this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93187	That means we won't even have a replica to give to anyone, right? All right. I agree. Why I gave the speech, namely the list of ministers, Vice President Branko Grcic. The Deputy Minister is in his place. Of course it's not on the list, there's probably a mistake in front of those who were preparing the materials. I accept my colleague, Tušak, but I have just wanted to work and interest in this law so that the minister can transfer the position of the competent ministry, to the Deputy Minister. Do you want replicas? So if we go to the replicas to accept that... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. My colleague Tušak then finds that let's say there has been and there has been no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but it will no lessen this debate of ours. Let's start with the replicas. Comrade Ivan Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93188	So don't be surprised how the whole law and those who defend it are. By what you're surprised, no. Your Honorary Deputy Minister, your debate was full of contradictions. You first said that the burden would be 2 to 5%, and at the same time for six months from the government, it is said that Croatian citizens will receive 2 billion. If Croatian citizens will receive 2 billion kuna, then it is a reduction in tax revenues to local self-government units around 17, 18%. That's a fact. And then either you were telling the truth when you said how many citizens you'd get or now. But that's it. Second thing, you said you weren't gonna get the one that paid. You take the means that are said to finance primary schooling, secondary schooling, social services, nursing homes, health and fire departments, and you put money whoever you want in one undefined place. It's just scandalous. If you took from any other position you could have... However, this alignment fund, look if before there were 100 kunas and you took 12 kunas of that, actually 12% you got 12%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you've now reduced the funds by some 17, 18% then you have 82 kunas and you figure out 6% you get about 4.9 let's say you get 5 kunas. So you're going to get 7 kuna less. And that's the 4.8, 4.9 how much the balancing fund is now going to be given a reduced base. And don't keep convincing, so it's a spatial theme, cleaning up some interest account, a percentage of whatever you want. You simply threw the only local self-government on a beggar stick, many. Because you don't know what the structure of the budget and this law has sent about, that what has been invested a little so far to make it a total waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93189	Thank you. Before you answer my colleague Tušak here I have now found a pen written by Deputy Minister Jaksha Puljiz. ... No, no, it means here on behalf of the proposer who will further explain the proposal. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Deputy response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93190	So the simulations that were done at the Ministry of Finance confirm what I said. Now if it's a miscalculation, we can see if maybe something was wrong, but the formula is the formula. Therefore, the data show and confirm that the absolutely sufficient amount is obtained when applying this new rate, the new share in income tax, and when comparing this with the needs to finance decentralised functions, that is equal to that sufficient. If you have any better calculations, better methodology, we'd be happy to do that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93191	Thank you. Slavko Linic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93192	A common tax called income tax belongs to units of local self-government. With this law, you go to centralization. First you take to manage the alignment fund, then you single out 1.5% of the funds needed as a domestic component in the projects, again you manage. And I'm not talking about the savings tax where you run again. It's called centralised, it's something that's inadmissible in 2015 when we talk about further decentralisation. But there's something else. You know, some of us remember very well how you shared the funds of the Development Bank of Europe. School funds, kindergartens, and I don't know everything, projects as many as you want. Interested local self-government leaders as long as you want. You want to talk about how you served them? Is that what we're gonna talk about? How did you reject them, how did you not want to talk to them, how did you not accept their projects? Yes, when you centralize, you decide, you say. Be assured, the EU projects will be pitched, but you will decide what is not allowed because they are their funds. And also try to answer me, who's to blame for pulling 50% of the EU funds this year? Head of the local community? Well, wait, with their projects waiting at the door, they don't have documents to show up at your door at all, and you've been calling them all day. I really don't have a comment. There won't be a problem in local self-government units, and about these... funds and ministries that will manage, huge problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93193	Thank you. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93194	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy, you have tried very skillfully to blur, if I may say so, the fact that this law, or the Income Tax Act, and now with this and whether we contribute, we are taking units of local and regional self-government a billion and 800 million because you have actually directed most of your exposure towards how they must be happy in fact that they now have those 170 million kunas, or 1.5% for a fund that will allow them to apply for registration.... What would you say to me... upside down. That's when about one careless driver hits a pedestrian... hand, and then pays for his dental repairs and must be happy he gave me such a favor. Because these 170 million kunas are now isolated from the millions and 800 taken from them, you see. If it were a new one, if it were a... care so that it was founded by a government fund that could finance these projects, it might be welcomed, but to welcome the fact that you're taking a billion and 800, and then you're trying to compensate for a certain part of it and you're starting this fund, it seems to me that it's not a very big success, and you're based on your final address. Certainly, the units of local self-government and not all of them, but a large number of local self-government units lack funds that some can't even make projects, let alone finance them later, and it's good to single out a part of it for a purpose, but it's been set aside after we've taken them because they've already been their assets, and now we've reduced them, and now we've got to be happy because they've established a certain fund that will help them build something and prepare to be able to apply to European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93195	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93196	In addition to this fund, you are aware that the state is running another fund, but only for less developed areas financed from the state budget. Therefore, funds for assisted areas to co-finance EU funds at the position of the Ministry of Regional Development, these funds are not large, but they are there and they will be there and I hope they will grow. Of course, in a situation where the state deficit is what it is, when we have the limitations that we have to come up with solutions like this unfortunately. I wish it wasn't like that. We wish we didn't have to break the tax burden across, mostly across the back of local self-government units. But look at the compensations. Here, maybe for the end of the number, again about the numbers. So, a billion and 800 losses, an additional 3.5% is estimated at 400 million kuna, so an additional 3.5%... income tax, an increase in the share of real estate taxes, from 60 to 80%, an estimate of 230 million kuna additional. So we're talking about 630 million kuna, 1.5% in the EU fund projects, the value of 170 million kuna and that of interest income, so from interest tax, you know that these funds will be spent to finance the return of taxes to citizens in assisted areas, that's 300 million kuna. So, we are all talking about some billion kunas, although these 170 million kunas from this EU co-financing fund are being used, which means that we are automatically adding 70% more funds from the EU that will end up in local self-government units. So at least 600 million kunas further from the funds if this amount is used.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93197	Thank you. Hope Turina-Djuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93198	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So all day and yesterday and today and all these days we've been talking, and it seems to me that the more we say that somehow it looks more and more twisted, and I wanted to react because all the time I've been listening to the sound of local self-government, the sound of the local self-government leader that we need to be more efficient, that we need to be better, more quality, etc. I agree, too. Yesterday someone I think mentioned the chiefs who have more than 30% of the income spent on pay, there's that. However, I would say that most of our leaders, or most of our self-government, are very responsible for spending budgets. And this part of me especially, among other things, as head of self-government insults me, which is that in fact, those of us who have been acting thriftyly, effectively, quality, we will be as punished as those who haven't done it all this time. Well, I'm not sure that's the right way and then the law is fair in that sense. I mean, I needed to say that to protect those people who do their job quality and those units of local self-government that are going to get hurt just like them in this. And that's the old Croatian message, the more blatant you are, the more rude you are, the more debauchery you act with money, the better you end up doing it. I've had these experiences as deputy mayors with the same debt in health care. What I wanted to say and what also hurt me, that's the whole story of how incompetent we are about EU projects. Well, I don't know if you have any insight, but a good part of the local self-government unit has quite prepared itself. But I was in a situation, my city was in a position to run, and it didn't go exactly the way it did, and we're waiting for competitions and we have saved programs and projects, and when it's gonna be, we don't know. If we don't start them in the first quarter next year, then from this whole story, it's going to be a compensation for local self-government, I don't think it's going to be anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93199	Time. Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, three things you'd like to say or ask. First of all, it's said the ministry has simulations. Why do we have no insight into these simulations and the models by which these simulations were made? And on the other hand, why these simulations did not give an answer why they were not funded or realised by those projects that have been offered so far, and they were rejected, and we heard it. Therefore, the very change of laws won't make this happen if we don't have that grade. Second, it's about local self-government, and then these leaders say they're driving some expensive cars and they have a big salary or too big and there's too many. If we talk on the level of personal impression, then we can prove everything. According to some other indicators that I have seen, Croatia does not bounce much by the number of employees in the state administration and local self-government, but we can possibly talk about the efficiency of that administration, and it depends on a number of other reasons, not only on the pawning of these leaders or people in that local administration and self-government. So I think we need to talk a lot more seriously than at the level of personal impression. And third thing, you say these funds that have been taken will come back through some other way for the needs of local self-government. Where are your criteria? Here it was said before it was determined according to the color of the uniform, let's take that and let's take it, but today you have a prime minister who every 2.3 months says we're sky they're underground I don't want to talk to them. You have ministries that don't communicate with each other, and on what basis will these funds be allocated, by what criteria? Where is that defined? How do we know that? So you have a series of undefined things, and beautiful desires are beautiful desires, but not to be discussed here in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93201	There's no answer. Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93202	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I think that... right about the debate Mrs Turina said about that part and congratulations that you managed to mention one important thing, and that's what we need to start looking at the efficiency of the work of cities, municipalities and counties. Why? So we can also say as mayor that we are untouchable and that citizens have chosen us and that we can have whatever we want, but you can see that untouchable in some concrete examples that mayors can be chosen three or four times, and their cities and municipalities are in dubiosis, without... parts constantly in budget minuses and other things. So it's very important to appreciate that part. I am now interested in concretely, the mechanisms you will use to take advantage of an opportunity or request for support, and you know first of all that spending more than 30.40% of the budget for the cost of city administration, we know that for example there are 3, 4, 5 thousand income per capital and there is the possibility that I am financing some things. And I'm particularly interested in those mechanisms that should not be allowed to fall by these simulations that you've made some kind of income from a local self-government by more than 20% that's inadmissible. Compensation measures must be found to help them. The 20% drop in income is practically death for the city or for the municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93203	Thank you. Here's your answer, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93204	A significant drop in income you know where local self-government units can be expected. These are those units that lose the status of either mountain and mountain areas, or areas of special state concern, and the compensatory measures are visible in the Law on the implementation of the state budget. Therefore, 2/3 of all the aid received by these units in 2013 will be paid as aid in 2015 for those units that have an development index of between 75 and 100, for those who have between 100 and 125, that is 40%. Is that enough, that's the same question, sure that these compensatory measures will not solve a complete problem that will arise by reducing revenue and that a difficult and painful adjustment will have to happen, too, is true. But again and here we are confident that through the opportunities provided by the EU funds, we will be able to further compensate and another part. Unfortunately, so far, we still don't have the right effective mechanism to separate these units that are how you describe them really rational, effective from those that aren't. So we still have to deal with these criteria, try to really structure them to be applicable to everyone, to give reliable verified data and indicators and then apply them afterwards. So far, we still don't have such criteria in place, but we're going to try to have the opportunity to further redefine those current aids that local self-government units get from the Ministry of Finance's position, that we're going to be able to apply some of these criteria and then in some of our other programs that are meant for local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93205	Thank you. Tomisla Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93206	Well done, Deputy Minister, we don't miss the one who's been announced to speak because it seems that in your ministry you all speak the same way as the Vice President of Greece. I hope at least you don't believe everything you've said and then you seem to believe it. So in terms of the budget of units of local and local self-government we've taken the term now new and compensatory measures, and we'll install that into our budgets. But what I reported for the replica is basically calling from your side of the local self-government unit. When calling them, you must be aware that you are calling over 5 hundred people who have voted for and voted for their citizens by name and last name. And when you say they didn't withdraw the funds, that you control all of it, you see how much the ministry, how many states did they withdraw, how many tenders did you call, maybe the one where one of the conditions put us not to be 50 kilometers closer to the neighbouring state. What unit of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia is 50km from the neighbouring country and such? Do not call the leaders of local self-government units this way because when you call them, you call all their citizens. And these are the responsible people, someone here mentioned what cars are driving or not driving, and it can be easily checked for what they have and how many people are employed somewhere in some city administration. And you've been working all along with that notion of increasing the number of employees. Tell us exactly how many of them are employed in the city administration and how many in those who are within the budget units of local self-government. Say these figures not in the sum that everyone is on the budget of units of local self-government. Not to talk about other things because we don't have time. But I think the partnership between your ministry and hearing all of this tonight that you've been told and Mr. Linic who's been professional in these things because he's been doing it for years, Mr. Shuker, we, this isn't maliciously what we're saying, this is alive what we're telling you, no simulations can convince us that you're right because we're doing it on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93207	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93208	I would just point out that there was no intention of offending anyone at local self-government, no way, so I think it's our main partners at the Ministry of Regional Development. These are our natural partners. So who do we talk to every day at the ministry's offices? Well, we're talking to you right now, with the mayors and the mayors and the mayors, every day. So it's no insult or know what. If we're going to talk about criticism I think that in these two days there's been a lot more criticism from your ranks, lines of MPs, but not criticism, but actually some data, some state bodies on the work of units of local self-government, but that doesn't apply to any individual here, that's the data, it's just the official data that's out there. And every time we say that there are excellent leaders of local self-government, there are excellent local administrations and we witness it when we go to the field and when we see how projects are done, when we see how rationally they are, of course, there are many, many of them. But we also say that there are still significant irrationalities, we don't say that personally subjectively, we're just talking about the data we have and these data says that the number of employees in local self-government continues to grow significantly. We're not talking about a small increase, wage spending continues to rise. We're just talking about data, nothing else. And what we can easily get to know through EU funds is really this capacity and the ability to catch up with a much harder procedure than local self-government units used to. And that's okay, it's a difficult road, we don't say that no one has to become the perfect user of EU funds overnight, no, but we're just encouraging and especially large urban environments, large cities are encouraged to get as much and as better prepared as possible. This is where we notice a special lack of proactiveity. Much more activity was in the smaller environments, and it is probably because they were forced, because there were no others, because their EU funds were the only real source of capital investment financing because their original budgets were so small. In large cities it is clear that they are not interested That's what we and this change of law want to encourage, too, that change of consciousness. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93209	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. I thank the Deputy Minister, you and Deputy Radjenovic, I don't see him here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93210	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local, regional and regional self-government, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 754. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments have been submitted with a special plate, so we'll get it on the table. Who's first? Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic, amendment number one of IDS's representatives and independent Furi Radin's clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93211	The amendment shall be accepted in part. The first part of the amendment is not accepted since each month the monthly accounting is therefore considered final and no additional obligation of the final annual accounting of the consumption tax is required. While the second part of the amendment is accepted in the amended statement in a way that the original proposal to amend and supplement the law deletes the words towards the residence, i.e. the seat of the taxpayer, thereby achieving the urgency of the proposer of this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93212	Is there any indication that he accepts the modified formulation?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93213	We accept that changed part because it's left in the core.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93214	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. Two respected representatives of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93215	Mr. President, Amendment No. 2 refers to the same matter as this accepted part of the previous amendment, so it is practically accepted through the acceptance of the first part of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93216	Please show the applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93217	I accept the explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93218	Thank you very much. The rest of the amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 3 also Branko Hrg, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93219	Amendment No. 3 is not accepted on the grounds that the units of local self-government may make the decisions in question until December during the current year for the whole of the following year, and from 2015 to 2016, the future law shall enter into force only on 1 January.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93220	Appreciation of the esteemed representative Branko Hrg, the applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93221	Well, if that is the case and if, in this year 2015, some decisions on local taxes may be made, regardless of what the law now stipulates to be by 15.12., it may be accepted as such. But I'm warning you that the local budgets were passed this year without mandatory instructions and that we really don't know what will be waiting for us during the year, so here we take Deputy Minister for the word here that this is the case and that decisions can be changed over the year. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93222	Thank you very much, the amendment has been withdrawn. Let's go to Amendment No. 4 Clubs of IDS Representatives and Representative Furi Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93223	Amendment No. 4 is not accepted, since the government does not therefore accept the proposal to make the VAT a common income of state and local self-government units. The fact is that the state gives up some of the revenue from value added tax would open up to the reduced part of the tax to increase the government budget deficit and create fiscal and macroeconomic imbalances which would result in a reduction in income. Which, due to the excessive deficit and our obligations, is not possible in accordance with the national convergence programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93224	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Valter Boljunčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93225	My proposal goes for 5% of the VAT amount to be paid to the local community, which would amount to exactly 2 billion kuna on the projected budget of 40 billion kuna, which was taken from local communities by income tax. And that means this, that 25% of the 1.25% would be the local community, and 23.75% would be the state. Or every 100 kuna that only one kuna would be bought would be left to the local community. I don't think decentralisation can start as long as it's viewed as something that's by definition exclusively the state's income, not the local communities. And I think accepting it would be at least 1.25 percent of VAT would be a real step towards decentralisation. With this, all the problems that have arisen and will be overcome by local communities in one way. And as far as the state budget is concerned, we have seen around 349 people working at the Agency for the Attraction of European Funds, as about 7 or more billion euros are available I am sure that this money would be found through them. In fact, these two billion if they go into consumption 400 million is the state's direct income based on VAT plus VAT from land for the first real estate sale. So the state is definitely not going to lose its share. And I think this would be a real step. And I'm saying, through the European funds, it would certainly be balanced. If local communities are said to be able to attract 2 billion European funds with their reduced capacity, then the state can. I think the VAT would be something that would certainly have to remain a local community to maintain the standard it has. Please, and I say it's only 1 kuna of 100 kuna. So it's not exactly a half-distribution between the state and the local community, so it's about dividing 5% to 95% as income now looks to the state of the local community. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93226	Please vote on Amendment No. 4 IDS and Furia Radina Clubs, which the Government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find he did not get the required majority of amendments no. 4. Amendment No. 5 Independent Representatives' Clubs Linic, Vuksic, Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93227	Amendment No. 5 Independent Representatives Clubs are not accepted. In the same way as in the previous amendment, this proposal proposes to amend Article 45, which is practically the core of this bill, but also part of a package of regional laws on regional development that you have just adopted and the proposing cannot accept this proposal. By turning profit tax into the total income of the state and units of local self-government and financing of funds for decentralised functions of as much as 1.7 billion per profit tax for the same amount, the government budget deficit would be opened or the total expenditure of the state budget would therefore have to be reduced. This, due to the excessive deficit procedure and our obligations in accordance with the national convergence programme, is unfortunately not possible at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93228	On behalf of the club Independent Representatives, the respected representative Slavko Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93229	Thank you, Mr. President. The Independent Representatives' Club agreed with government policy to reduce the tax burden on citizens. And that's okay. But this law does not accept the government's proposal that the burden should be borne by local self-government units. Because you've already seen the result, communal fees rise, kindergarten prices rise, and that's exactly what SDP cities and municipalities do. So we're lying, and we're sending the wrong message. We cut taxes, the government thinks it's working well, and local self-government units are taking everything the citizens have got. At the same time, we are showing enormous intricacies and we see that around this law, the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance has been tampered with by the Ministry of Regional Development. We need to understand that basic total income, income based on income tax and income tax. And they don't need any compensation measures just by redistributing we could solve that problem. But it's not just a matter of reducing the tax burden with this bill, you take away cities and revenues for decentralised assets, you cut from 12 to 6. We believe that this should be kept and that cities themselves should finance themselves. Well, you've gone completely wrong again, you're centralizing funds, and someone in the government is going to decide what belongs to cities and municipalities. It's centralization, not decentralisation. And what is also very important to say, the profit tax goes only to the alignments and to those weak and powerless to whom the state needs to be helped. Therefore, much of this article has been resolved, so I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93230	Please vote on amendment number 5 of the Independent Representatives Clubs which the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that he has not received the necessary majority of amendments 5. We're going to Amendment number six of Presidents of the Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93231	Amendment number 6 of the distinguished Pleshe MPs is also not accepted by the government. The point of the proposed amendment is that the share of the municipality, i.e. the city, increases by 4% on the burden of the aid position and on the balancing and on decentralised functions. This legislative change would significantly reduce those resources and the amount of the missing funds would be EUR 450 million. Which is the truth a slight reduction from other amendments to this article of the law, but would nevertheless increase the deficit or reduction of other expenditures of the state budget, therefore the Government cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93232	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93233	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, the classification of units of local and regional self-government by degree of development affects the budgets of those units of local self-government, which were based on the provisions of the Law on the areas of special state care and mountainous areas, had a rate in the distribution of income from income tax to 90%. Now they're losing that status. In order for this effect to be felt as little as possible in their budgets, I have proposed income from income tax for municipalities, or cities to rise by 4% to make it more balanced, or help those units. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93234	I ask that we vote on amendment number six of the respected representative of the Nenad Dance, which the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that he did not receive the required majority of amendments number 6. Amendment No. 7 of the IDS Representatives Club and Representative Fury Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, Amendment No 7 is attached to Amendment No 4 of the same applicant which the Government has not accepted, and consequently cannot accept this amendment relating to the possible redistribution of value added tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93236	On behalf of the club esteemed representative Valter Boljunčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93237	Well, since it wasn't the local community's VAT revenue, this amendment is losing its meaning because it says it's being shared. 5% for the local community, 95, at the very least, I'm not even asking for a vote because it's pointless and illogical. But I thought you'd turn the four amendments together and this one because they make up one whole. So, this amendment simply doesn't make any sense physically and it really doesn't make sense to ask for a vote on this issue, but I think that sooner or later you'll see that the VAT that's being realized still needs the local community and that decentralisation is the only way out of this crisis because people who work somewhere, they know best how they can spend that money and what they need. Anyone who's somewhere far away doesn't know what to do or how to spend that money best. And the local community itself, as far as deficits are concerned, is below 2% of the state deficit in the local community. Thank you. I mean, I don't need a vote because it's illogical.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93238	Thank you very much. Yes, you withdrew the amendment because it was illogical after the first amendment was rejected. We're going to Amendment 8 of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93239	Amendment number 8 of the HDZ Representatives Clubs is not accepted. It proposes a comprehensive amendment to Article 45, very similar to the amendment of the Independent Representatives Club Linic, Vuksic, Hodzic, with the intensities that aid for decentralisation functions, aid for the financing of a capital project of interest for the development of the island, and assistance and projects co-financed by the European Structural Investment Funds are financed from income tax on profits, which I say, as well as previous explanations, would increase the deficit which, due to the excessive deficit procedure of our commitments, in accordance with the national convergence programme and deficits of the state budget, is unfortunately not possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93240	On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93241	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy, I'm sorry you didn't accept this amendment for one reason, which in the state budget we discussed last week simply doesn't stand this all you said. So, by amending this article in 45, which reduces funds for decentralised functions from 12 to 6%, the base decreases and then turns out to be a reduction of not 6 but about 7.5%. For decentralised functions, 900 million are taken, 900 million children are taken in primary school, secondary school, social care, nursing homes, hospitals, and fire departments. The proposal for our amendment was that the full income tax revenue goes to units of local self-government, so cities, municipalities and counties and decentralised functions, and that the government as part of the budget is simple as a spending party to cover the costs of decentralised functions of other revenues, since these other revenues do not have an inscription that they are, it is important how much that position will look. However, the government did not do so and with this decentralised asset being taken with the assets taken on the basis of an increase in the non-taxable share of income tax, local self-government units remain without around 2.5 billion of their direct assets, and if the decentralised functions are taken from 900 million, and the budget position increases that amount from a billion and 270 to a billion 510, then it is clear to each one that the position is generally reduced by some 640, 650 million, and not to help local self-government units in such a way. So, another eclectic example of centralisation, not decentralisation, and that's why I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93242	Thank you very much. Please vote on amendment number 8 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that he has not received the required majority of amendments number 8. Amendment number 9 of the Legislative Committee, deputy deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93243	Sustained, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93244	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 10 of the same board, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93245	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93246	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 77 votes in favour, 1 vote was abstentioned and 31 votes against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93247	We continue with: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the municipal economy, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 749; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. With us is the Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Mrs Anka Mrak Taritas. Introduce yourself to the Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93248	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. We have before us a draft final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Communist Economy. It's one of the longest-ever laws, so the basic law is 1995. The amendments relate to two themes. One topic is the harmonisation of jurisdiction, so it is no longer a state inspectorate but an inspection from the Ministry of Finance's jurisdiction, but the basic theme of why we are going to amend and supplement this law is the change in how funds from municipal compensation can be spent. Therefore, the municipal fee was the revenue of units of local self-government and so far could be used, i.e. the funds could only be used to finance and carry out municipal activities, depletion of atmospheric waters, maintenance of cleanliness in the part relating to public surfaces, maintenance of public areas, maintenance of unclassified roads, maintenance of cemeteries and crematories and public lighting. This proposal proposes that a municipal fee be applied after it remains surplus after this is achieved and can be used for the financing and construction of facilities and utility facilities and the possibility of using the funds is also to maintain facilities of school, health and social content, building these facilities, and building and maintaining pre-school facilities, financing and building public buildings of sport and cultural purposes and improving the energy efficiency of buildings owned by units of local self-government. So we need to take a step back and when the Law on the Communist Economy there almost 20 years ago was passed then it distinguished the municipal fee and the communal contribution. The communal contribution, the funds from this were for building buildings, and the communal compensation exclusively for what I was saying at the outset and what is listed in the current Article 22. The law. Since things have changed a lot over the past 19-20 years, we have made this bill enable units of local self-government to be used for both construction and maintenance of individual facilities and facilities that are exclusively in the function of different public purposes. So we have a public purpose and preschool and education and health care and social welfare and the construction and maintenance of these facilities, and therefore we propose these amendments and additions to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93249	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? A colleague of yours? No, I don't. Okay. We're starting a debate on behalf of the representatives' clubs. Club of Independent Representatives Slavko Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, Slavko Linic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93250	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. What do you say? How can you not support such a bill and basically save the mayor from prosecutions because in fact the State Review is constantly haunting them, calling. We Parliamentarians are talking about unintentional consumption. How can you not support it? So again, I wonder if we in the House have to discuss illogical laws. So why do we know the Law on Community Activities speaks of sources that serve only to finance municipal activities. So we also know what the purpose is, not wealth, not the value of the facility, but whether the strategist is located along the riverbed or not, because if it is along the riverbed it will pay as if it were the richest villa on the periphery. So, we're talking about legal now, I'd say non-intentional spending. Legally. That's it. And why do we do that, because for two years now, the Real estate tax law has been finished at the Ministry of Finance, which is just saying that the income of the local self-government unit should be taxation of wealth and property and particularly restrictive of property that is not in function on the territory of the unit of local self-government. This is the basis of the Real Estate Tax Act, and that law then gives the local self-government unit the right because it does not speak of a communal activity to use it for everything it needs, and that means maintaining municipal activities in investment, in the municipal infrastructure, because we see that there is no more sales, there is no dedicated income, municipal contribution, because everything is caring and of course more and more committed and responsible for investing in social upgrade infrastructure, means education, health, social welfare. All these activities have been transferred to units of local self-government without original income because it is evident that income tax is not enough to finance the activities of social upgrade, let alone social.... And as the minister said, since '95. For years, we have kept the unsustainable law, we do not comply with European practice. We have entered European practice. When you tell an entrepreneur that he has to pay a communal fee, and he comes from outside, he doesn't understand what you're taking from him, he doesn't understand it. He can't understand because the communal fee is being treated outside as a local self-dependency. So you make a deal because it's a deal with some part of the street, the city, let's build a playground here and then participate the economy. It's in the world a communal contribution, and we've stayed on... from socialism. And now he's aware that there's no money, no money for municipal facilities either because there's no investment, so there's no communal contribution, so we're starting to jeopardize the entire system. How does a local self-government unit build any road to build for, say, a parking lot, for building, I don't know what to do with lighting, etc. There's no, there's just no, there's no source. Income tax is not enough, and this means if it uses unintended benefits. Now I'm wondering why we were running away from really serious talk about the real estate tax that was supposed to replace this category of unsustainable tax. He was supposed to replace it. And if you were to make sure there wasn't a real estate tax bigger than this part, you were to give right to the units of local self-government what to do. And what's most important for the local self-government unit is the worst facilities that aren't functional, the land that's planically designed, inserted into urbanism, spent money, and someone doesn't put it into function. That's the biggest problem. The water, the gas, the lighting, the street made, the money invested, you have nothing to charge, no one lives, no one uses the hall, no one uses the business space, you have no one to charge from. Why? So this Law on the Communist Economy frees you, you don't have to pay. And vice versa, just then you should charge more because the objects are not functional. All that is built is not used and not paid. You can only pay water charge for the used cubicity etc. Therefore, we have completely abandoned that part of the income of local self-government units and we are postponing the whole problem and then we approach these unmistakable solutions where even the logic of the Law on the Communist Economy is being violated and now we are changing it. But then it can't be called a communal economy, no. Then these are local self-government activities, not municipal activities. Because you'll allow me school, kindergarten doesn't fall into communal activity, and you can use the money on that basis. And not to say that it's not a problem if there's a strategist in the city center when you tax, but vice versa whether it's a modern building that costs a few thousand euros squares, which represents wealth, so you're essentially going to be fairer to your fellow citizens. And that means the one who has more has to tax a little more participate than the poor one, no matter where his facility is located. Therefore, personally, I will support the law because I am tired of calling the Mayor of Rijeka for, say, unreasonable spending of money and I would say illegal or illegal, unintended, etc. I believe that this is indeed the right of those who are responding, and that means bodies, representative bodies of local self-government units who still have to find solutions for crisis periods. The building needs to be built, not to run away from it even if it's a communal economy facility, but also social upgrade facilities. So, as I would say, I'm going to be that advocate who's gonna raise her hand for, and at the same time I'm assessing that I'm in favor of an illogical law, a law that is a relic of the past that should have disappeared from doing our job long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93251	Thank you. We have a few replicas. Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93252	Thank you very much. I think that since we are all aware of the problems in which the heads of the unit of local self-government were far more handsome, elegant, better solution and ultimately stick to what is the basic meaning of a law, that this problem was solved through the Law on the implementation of the state budget, that it simply went that a certain percentage of the funds could be used to finance something else. Because then he would simply not push into the Law on the Communist Economy something that is not a municipal activity. Because because of this general panic that was created around compensation funds to local self-government units, we started doing something that just didn't. And that's why I'm surprised, Madam Secretary, did you agree to that? Because you've practically been in this sphere your whole life and it's just illogical to deal with this problem here, and there was a far more elegant solution to an article in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget and we solved all the problems. And like this, we're pushing something into communal activity that's simply not a place, and in that real estate tax whether it's time for it or not, but that just turned the story into an equal sign, then yes, but like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93253	Thank you. Answer Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93254	Well, I appreciate the minister, and I know she didn't find it easy to propose this bill, but she's also aware of the problems in the municipal economy, because let's be honest, she cares about investing in municipal facilities because this money can't be spent, and yet without communal facilities, it's hard to tell about stronger support for citizens to provide municipal services. And I think that indeed the finance minister could have made possible through the draft law on the implementation of the state budget for the sake of the crisis and for the compensatory measures we have been listening to for three days the possibility of using this section and for the upgrade or at least the building facilities, that this law would still die with the Real estate tax law, not in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93255	Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93256	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Linic, you're partly right. A number of cities, I would say, developed cities and more developed units of local self-government will be welcome. It will enable him to implement in a legitimate way something that may have already happened. But believe me, there are a very large number of units of local self-government whose income from municipal compensation was not covered by what this law allows. They did not have any money, i.e. municipal compensation and income from municipal compensation, nor could they cover what the existing law allowed them to solve in the sphere of municipal activity or even in the part relating to the maintenance of the school, social and health facilities as it states in the law. Basically, it seems to me, that the minister did not tell me, this law goes after such, so that these cities are stronger able to reroute the funds of municipal compensation now to what the law now allows, and on the other hand, that those who lack the money to have cover that it can now increase the level of municipal compensation and maintain what the law would have to maintain. And we read that through what you said yourself, through compensatory measures. Because the fact is that the basis of the law that we have passed will leave the units of local self-government without certain money, and now with this law we have made it possible for them to invest in something else now. And then believe as a result, there will be an increase in the price of municipal compensation. I'm more than sure. I believe it's a safe minister. But the government didn't have any, it was between hammers and an anvil, and it was supposed to come with this law and allow for an increase in the municipal fee as a foll, and now we've expanded its purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93257	Thank you. Answer, Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93258	So I have to tell my colleague Bačić that I won't agree with you because if you know the situation in cities and municipalities better, then you'll realize that indifference is on the rise again and that the biggest problem is to charge a communal fee. And when you can't charge it, believe me, you won't even increase it because it's a sign that you're going to have an even bigger unpaid realization. What I'm afraid of is that with this package of laws, we're going to increase the indifference of cities and municipalities. With this package and this possibility, we will have money spills for both upgrades and building costs. So again we'll have a little skating in unintended spending because you still have to pay your aunt in kindergarten, you'll have to pay me I'd say services in schools etc., that's where I think of those homemasters etc. You'll have to pay for all that. And that's why it's going to be used, and then there's the problem of how we're going to maintain the communal system quality. Because there's gonna be less resources there because we're going to let the pipe rot, the pipe flush, the water out, we're going to have additional water losses, we're going to stop investment in lighting, we're going to have old light bulbs, we're going to spend enormous resources because we're still going to have more needs for something else. This is what we need to be concerned about because when we look at what happened in the state budget, unfortunately, the reduction in expenditure was mostly seen in maintenance, the quality of maintenance. So that's why we're not even able to get into the battle to invest in the energy efficiency of the city that would bring us money from the world and all for more savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93259	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93260	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, first of all, you said that when the review comes we are in trouble how to justify the purposeful spending of these funds. I can say and agree that, believe me, a large part of us are not in any of these problems at all because our communal fee is neither here in my case 2.8% we exceed the cost of using the communal fee from that real part that we're collecting. Now, we're afraid of the other side, and that's because you said that communal fee we can't increase it to at least cover in this part as much as we need for purpose because I have incomes of 825 kuna per capita and real citizens can't cover that part of the income. On the other hand, there's an even bigger problem, and what you've put out for payment, what is your charge in that part. Because if someone doesn't want to pay it, it's certainly not, but it can't pay especially in these difficult recession measures. And I can say that I am truly envious of those who need this law. And you should, because let's face it, it wasn't brought in without being made by the mayor's office, the mayor in this part. I'm envious that they're either re-conducted or re-invested, so they have nothing to invest in this part of it anymore, and they have extra funds, and then they should invest that extra money in these other facilities as such. I hope there aren't any, but that's why we have a very simple solution. These should not receive any more support, what we have discussed today, but should support those who at least need to cover the basic municipal standard that needs from the communal fee and contributions, and then some kind of social and economic upgrade will probably come from EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93261	Thank you. Answer, colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93262	I can agree with you, but try to figure something out again. Tomorrow you will build a school, tomorrow you will invest in kindergarten, believe me, you will need money no matter how much you will withdraw from European funds. Where's your money when your income tax is supposed to be used to invest in that infrastructure means upgrade infrastructure, not to mention the House of Fire, House of Culture, or I don't know what kind of cultural monuments you can have. How are you going to invest when you don't have the money? And that's why this law is going to really help you because until yesterday, the truth is, what's going to be the problem? You'll have an even bigger hole in the communal system, even bigger. But you know if you'll keep the toilet in kindergarten and if you'll arrange the roof and heat in the kindergarten safely before repairing the pipe in the waterway. That's the problem that's going to cause these kinds of laws because you're running out of funds right now. But try to understand simply that you need money for municipal infrastructure as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93263	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists – Labour parties, Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93264	Dear Vice President, the Minister with an associate and here are a few colleagues and one colleague as far as I can see between us. This Law on the municipal economy, here is a change in practically three articles, Articles 22, 28 and 30, and it will practically enable units of local self-government that and this part of the boredom of dedicated funds will be able to benefit some others, and that is the question of investment. And I agree with replicas and predecessors who said it was a good law solution, but I'm asking myself one question why now at this time, could these amendments of the law have happened long ago? But we know why it's coming to this. We're coming to this because the Income Tax Act of the Local Self-Government Unit loses 2 billion kuna. And what has already been announced, and it will practically happen, that wherever the communal fee is going to be increased, and that will be one piece of impact on the citizens again. Clearly, we know that the Income Tax Act of those who have low wages will increase them a little bit, those who have large salaries will also get a large increase, they will be able to go on a better skiing abroad, they will be able to afford even better things, but when the municipal fee rises then it is unique by square, depending on whether it is in zone 1, 2, 3 or 4, depending on the units of local self-government. And now the question arises for those who have small funds that will be a clear additional blow. Something special, and I think one proposal was very good, which is from the association of cities and municipalities in the way they suggested to limit the spending on one side of those funds, 60% to maintaining municipal infrastructure, and 40% to go into this part of the investment. And I think they're right because the consequences of this law, clearly if a new law is not passed which is spoken of by a colleague Linic, which is a real estate tax, that in that part, and there will be some problems for those who will go into certain investments, maybe a little bit, and it will be a little bit, and it will be bigger funds. And it will simply be found in the situation that for that second part of the maintenance of municipal infrastructure there will not be enough money, so it will again reach for a public fee to be raised, and we have seen that individual resistances and resistances will be in the units of local self-government. Apparently, I heard the other day that they tried to lift up in Umag, so they failed to make such a decision because most of the city council did not support such a proposal. That kind of resistance will probably happen everywhere. There and in Split where it was announced, etc. It's hard to talk about when we speak on the one hand, which is the price of communal compensation, but the truth of the consequences are real. So we have some kind of, I've been extracting some data in the first zone, and we have some kind of communal fee, which is an average of 0.52 kuna, and it's ranging from the lowest of 0.15 to 1.27 kuna per square metre. And that's what I'm saying about living space. In the second zone we have from 0.13 to 0.85 which is about 0.40 kuna per square metre on average. And let's say the third zone is 0.11 to 0.70. The level of municipal compensation for business space is significantly higher, and then e.g. It moves along a square metre from about 1.14 kuna to about 12.70 kuna per square metre, which is quite a significant part of the expenditure. But something that should also be said when it comes to this law and the payment of municipal compensation, which is the question that property owned by the Republic of Croatia is in some way not subject to municipal compensation, and in that part certain units of local self-government are placed in a more unfavourable position which we think is not all equally placed in that position and that it is not in some way good, especially when it comes to local self-government units, is it in such a way that they lose some of the funds. And maybe, in the end, not to be longer, this is a lot but in some way this second amendment, and I have to give it to the minister and her ministry in some way and a criticism, which is a matter of the state inspectorate that was abolished a year ago, and we are only now changing that provision into law, and in the act when it comes to violations and committing violations, those first four items were in the jurisdiction of the inspectors and practically that part long ago we had to comply with the law, do we know that a year ago we abolished the state inspectorate and clearly that it was immediately in January and this law should have been brought into line with that. This is how we set ourselves up that we had some sort of provision in the law itself, and it didn't serve its purpose if it wasn't for that and the changes that occurred in that part of the state inspectorate that was abolished. That's it. Croatian Labourists believe that nothing is disputed in the law itself, but here we point to these particular problems that could happen in practice and that is the question that local self-government units are difficult and what is given them and this opportunity which is good in one part will be able to provide enough financial resources and I fear that some will find themselves in a very... situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93265	Thank you, too. Tomislav Klaric, on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93266	Dear Madam Minister with an associate, vice president, colleague and colleague. Here, we have a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the municipal economy with a final draft law and we have an emergency procedure again as in 99% of the laws passed in this Croatian Parliament. It was my previous mention of something I was thinking of talking about, which is the only reason I accept to be in an emergency procedure is because it took us a year to amend these provisions in Article 5 and here when there is no more inspectorate, to write the ministry instead of that word. But so did Mr. Linic, and we heard the predecessors, what little happened to me today during the presentation of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia when he... announced in that sense the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure in which he would compensate. The fact is that units of local self-government in the entire Republic of Croatia when planning their budget, what they are sure to have solid indicators, can plan revenues from the Law on the Communist Economy. The fact is that this law is until this future is passed, and I guess eventually it will, when that decision is finally made, a new Taxation Act, is the fact that this is a key law for every unit of local self-government, that it is a generator and investment, development and everything else. The fact is also that we are now put into a situation all in the field of the entire Republic of Croatia that the funds will have to be spent in the sense that so far, if the existing form of the law remained without these changes, in order to be forced to waste unintendedly and the fact that many units of local self-government in the findings of the state audit had made that observation and given a conditional opinion because they were forced to use funds, since they had no capital revenue, from communal compensation to spend on other things. But it's just the construction of all of what's listed here, but it's a whole bunch of other things. I'm afraid that, and time will show it, especially in those areas where we talked the most about these days, so also about the PPDS areas and the areas under the Law on mountainous mountainous areas, I'm afraid that the leaders of the local self-government unit will be forced to reach into these funds and for what it doesn't say, I'm afraid they'll be used for some kuna and for social giving and for some other things. With this in mind, the association of cities where we have actively and all participated, were familiar with written materials with their proposals, amendments, there were all the leaders of the units of local self-government in some way and agreed and proposed the amendment in what way these funds and schedules could be spent on other purposes than those which were intended by the Law on the municipal economy, but also to be in the hands of whoever is responsible, at the end of the controls and state audit and which is signed under the Law on fiscal responsibility that the funds were both spent and intended and planned, in order to enable the plan to be drawn up, to propose to their representative body by adoption, i.e. the adoption of foreign representative body that these assets could be spent on these things and therefore, as a club of HDZ, to submit almost... the amendment. There was another amendment for which she contacted both the concrete proposal and the Municipality of Kostren, but as far as I can see in the proposal for your amendments to the law he was completely fenced so that we excluded him from our amendment. What I would like to tell you here because we were recently discussing in front of the HDZ Club what I think, but most of us here, it seems to me that we have agreed here, there was also a party of pensioners, there were a large number of us where we have in some way criticized the ministry that has captured your domains, or your portfolio, which is exactly this law, and we have talked about funeral services. I am this package that takes place these days, all of these laws, this Regional Development Act, about PPDS, about removing privileges from the base of the mountainous mountainous area, indexation, at this point, after 3 years of mandate in the final year of the mandate of one government, in this way bringing all these laws, bringing units of local self-government into this situation that do not have guidelines by the Ministry of Finance that were to be obtained by the end of the 6th month in order to plan their budgets, we do not think it is as good as these amendments to the law, precisely the point and purpose of existence in that sense of the unit of local self-government and their key obligations, all that they must do. I repeat, the Law on the Communist Economy has always been a law that has undergone certain changes, but has been a strong support for all units of local self-government in that they can plan the means to implement a number of projects in their field. Normally, some units, as you said, had very small incomes but were spent, but other units and a large number of them in Croatia, say Mr Linic mentioned the city of Rijeka that regularly has an audit-based conditional opinion because of this non-intentional spending, and even my unit of local self-government because these revenues in such units of local self-government were much higher than those capital revenues. As far as the law itself is concerned, there's not too much to talk about. They understand the situation in which we are in the field in local self-government units, the situation that will reflect on the municipal standard, but everything that will happen in the coming year to our citizens, such a draft of the law, is in some way and understandable because they simply cannot believe that you were quite agreeing to do so in this way, the compensatory measures that Mr. Greek is talking about, right at the moment when we enter the EU when we have to have ready projects, precisely for these things written by the Law on the Communist Economy when we have the opportunity to get funds out of the EU funds. We are now in a situation that we are forced to make this law that will vote enables us to spend what was intended, strictly for the precisely defined content unintendedly. This will allow us to do so. The State Audit will not write such a single remark, but what's definitely a lot of things here that we've talked about these days, and that's also seen from this, and even from this previous agenda point, we're kind of getting into a situation that I'm going to be picturesque and we're going to be spilling from hollow to empty. In any case, the amendment will be delivered to you in writing and I ask you, since the Association of Cities has indeed stood on several occasions, debated this issue of the 17th November she delivered to you but also to all of us her opinion on this and our amendment is in line with their demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93267	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club Marijan Skvarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with an associate. First of all, I can say one card because whenever we get laws from the Ministry of Civil Engineering, these laws are mostly short, and what is most important and concrete and enters into all the heart of the problem that seems to be in their intelligence. So really in that part one more card. What we can say when we talk about the Law on the Communist Economy, is the law that we mayors, the mayors most often read, we study most often, and we often have to make decisions towards it. In this part of the issues defined by this law are, above all, the possibility of financing the construction of facilities and facilities of municipal infrastructure, and this by means of a municipal compensation in cases where these units of local self-government are assessed as necessary and, of course, by harmonising with the Law establishing and delirious the work of ministries and other central bodies of the state administration in the part of the exercise of inspection supervision. As I said in the debate, at first glance, this bill makes the units of local self-government help to those who have been reinvested so they don't know what to do with these funds, so let's spend them for other purposes. First of all, we agreed that this is not so, that it is primarily a purpose because we have a huge drop in income, especially income from part of income, so that we, the mayors, the mayors, must make sure that we invest in what will be development and contribute to the development of our local environments. But if this law were to be clearer, I would only mention it a little on the basis of Article 28(2). The Law on the municipal economy which states that the funds collected by a municipal fee can also be used by the President's authority for the purpose of building and maintaining buildings of pre-school, school, health and social content, public buildings of sports and cultural purposes and improving energy efficiency of buildings owned by units of local self-government. It should be noted from this point of view that when the budget is reached, the component of that budget is also the construction programme, the facilities of the municipal infrastructure facilities. This construction programme primarily includes the name of the programme to be implemented, the amount and, of course, the funds for that part. This programme, which forms an integral part of the city budget, is also brought by the city council, or the municipal council, or the presidential body. And I think in that part, if that's how it's understood, you don't need a special decision with this program. It is about where it is also a good provision for us mayors, together with our citizens, because the mayor gives this proposal to the citizens of the presidential body that we decide in what ratio and what height it is for the development of our local environments to be most optimistic. Well, then I don't think it should be limited to certain percentages, because then the meaning of this bill is lost. Yet we as mayors are before our citizens the most responsible for this. And yet special control in the fact that even by the end of the 3rd month, the mayors or executive bodies must also provide the presidential body with a report on the implementation of such a programme of construction, projects of municipal infrastructure. Here, once again, the HNS Club, the Liberal Democrats, will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Communist Economy, because we strongly believe that this law will make a significant contribution to the purpose of carrying out municipal activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93269	Thank you, too. On behalf of SDP representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93270	Dear Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here's my end, actually at the end of the debate if I see so last reported, very short. This is a good law change and the SDP club will certainly support this change. As we can see from the debate and otherwise from the public, it wasn't very public and today it's too much opposition to this proposal to amend this law. It's like that when something's good, then it goes through the cracks and nobody gives a shit and when someone doesn't like it, it's just a big noise and a grumble. But well, that's the fate of this job. So, but that doesn't mean if it's something good that you shouldn't say it's good. So this bill amending the law is good and finally, I say it finally came to this because today it has been warned and repeatedly so far that in some way most of the leaders or units of local administration and self-government and local self-government were tied hands. Often they had certain priorities that were to be financed and simply couldn't come from these funds because they... It was intended, so they had to spend it on some of the alleged purpose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Important change therefore and the only, most important change of this law which simply treats spending differently, if I can thus say the allocation of the municipal fee that it can now be used to build not only for maintenance, but also objects, therefore and municipal structures, infrastructure, public surfaces, cemetery, public lighting, but facilities from social purposes, from kindergartens to culture, sports, etc., and that's good. It is good though not at first glance more money to units of local self-government, not directly, indirectly perhaps in some way and is. Why? Well, for the simple reason, there's a folk saying that when something is given at the right time it's worth twice as much. And here it's simple that if you give someone the chance that at the right time when he needs to finish his kindergarten or start it or something like that, you'll be able to provide the funds that he's had so far, which he couldn't use in some way is a new source, or he's had the right time and the right place that hasn't been possible so far. Surely in that sense it is in some way indirect and more money, so it does not increase the mass but increases the possibility with its use. And it really flexibles the management of the finance of cities and municipalities, which is ultimately, the leadership of these cities and municipalities has been given the confidence of citizens to do so, so I don't know why I don't give it to them. In some ways, and as if we've had a mistrust in these people so far that they're not going to know how to distribute these funds well, so we need to define exactly where these funds should be used. On the other hand, why this is good, this is an opportunity to increase or improve the compensation of municipal compensation. First of all, not to increase as some expect, but to make every square apartment, space, land, buildings, etc. I'm sure there's no unit of local self-government where there's nothing that isn't covered. I know from experience when I saw that some apartments in Zagreb don't enter the utility system for 4, 5 years, so why should some pay and some don't. So here's a chance that units of local self-government now that they can be unlimited if I can say so, uninterruptedly dispose of the means to make a little more account and to look a little more for those squares that they haven't found so far and that there's no charge for them, and so far there's been no charge. And the third thing why it's important, this is still, and I would say maybe the first step towards introducing what we all run from, which we don't want to say, which is real estate tax, which all the countries of the European Union have except Croatia. We don't want to introduce it, we don't want to say it because we don't want new taxes and nobody wants new taxes, but it's a communal tax, a local tax, not a neck, it's not a tax, it's a communal tax, it's a communal tax. Well, okay, let's keep the neck on, but that's it. And this is actually an opportunity to take the first step in renaming it. So I'm not into introducing new taxes either, but I'm here to call things our name. Therefore, if this communal fee is not introduced by any new tax we rename to the property tax nothing will be wrong because the funds will be treated as tax and are absolutely local... to use it where she thinks she's the most needed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After all, we already have taxes introduced or introduced into other forms of property, on savings, we have taxes on cars, so we have some other property so why not real estate. Which we already have now, which is called a communal fee. And let's keep it communal for now, in this law, and allow her to spend it, so not only for what she's been up to now, but we'll probably want to or not soon, and call it the name that deserves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93271	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. I'd like to thank the Minister for her cooperation. We're done for tonight. Tomorrow we will continue with the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015. I wish you a pleasant sequel to the evening. SESSION Interrupted at 20.43 hours
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93272	We are going to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Communist Economy, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 749. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the IDS Representatives' Club and by the representative Furio Radin and the HDZ Club. I'd like a representative of the government, Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, Željka Uhlir. Let's get this straight. Amendment No 1 to Article 1. ...the IDS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93273	The amendment is not accepted and because the proposed amendment is contrary to the purpose of these amendments and the addition of the law in question, as well as the Law on the Communist Economy itself, would enable units of local self-government to use unintendedly the funds collected from the municipal compensation, thereby reducing the funds that must be used for those purposes prescribed by the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93274	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Valter Boljunčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93275	Yes, except that you should have added the following, of course that this amendment is not dear to anyone, but it is suggested that it lasts a short time, let's say up to 2, 3 years exclusively as one..., so to mitigate the problem of the funds that the local community loses by income tax. So, based on this law, the idea was to use part of the municipal compensation funds unintendedly at the level of the local community during the crisis, i.e. for up to 3 years, so that all what the local community has a duty to preserve the social standard of its citizens could be financed. Namely with income tax, with the financing of local self-government and regionally significant funds removed. Therefore, no one is pleased to see the funds from the municipal fee used for the second, and the amendment is, in an explanation, that with the aim of taking a shorter period of time during the crisis, to enable the local community to somehow ensure the social security of its citizens, from kindergarten to social assistance for its citizens, which will be questioned by these new laws. So I'm asking you to think about it and I'm asking for a vote on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93276	Thank you very much. We would like to vote on the amendment of the IDS and Furia Radin Club of Representatives, which the Government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. The amendment did not receive the required majority. Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 22, Deputy Honored.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93277	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as the previous argument that, as a major procedure is requested, the other proposed provisions of Article 22 of the Law in question are not accepted because they were not subject to these amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93278	On behalf of the applicant's club, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93279	Thank you very much. In addition to the positive intensities of this law where the units of local self-government are to be helped, first of all, given the new situation and when we look at the structure of the budget of the units of local self-government, the free part of them, so to speak, is practically all on, to say the simple expanded reproduction and therefore it is good that these funds from municipal incomes can be used for some construction facilities. Our amendment has gone in this direction to improve the law on the basis of previous years' experiences, because this is a topic that has been dragging on in this House for 10 years, I guess, that these funds are allowed to be used for something else. So, our intention was to further correct a law that would welcome units of local self-government, but since you do not accept, we are asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-26-0.u93280	Please vote on the amendment of the HDZ Representatives' Club that the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm determining he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please vote. Okay? The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 107 votes, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the municipal economy is in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendment adopted.
