ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u64124	Your Honor, Mr. President. On behalf of the CNS, they would ask for a five-minute break because they would say something about the situation in Gorski Kotar, given that a natural disaster has been declared and that the current collapse in the area, apart from the highway, is de facto nothing works.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u64125	The HDZ club, respected representative Ivan Suker, Nada Turina-Đuric, is no longer in the air. Thank you very much. Ten minutes minimum break, that means in, we go 10 to 10. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm not as precise as you fellow Mesic, so let me make a more casual decision. So at 9.50 a.m., continue the session. Thank you very much. It's 9:00.33. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u64127	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here we considered it necessary in the HNS through this High House to draw attention to the Croatian public, but not only to the Croatian public but also to the competent institutions, the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the gravity of the situation that has been created today and these days in the area of Gorski Kotar. I'm lucky or unfortunate that these days I've traveled through Gorski Kotar and except that the highway passes the rest of Gorski Kotar is collapsing. So no roads, no railways, no schools, no health care system could simply not be able to train him in these few days. We must say that indeed both the local and regional self-government have engaged with certain institutions that are accompanied by them, especially I would say HEP employees, the Mountain Rescue Service, the Firefighters. But the fact is that in the next ten days, it is likely that Gorski Kotar will be able to train elementally, but those who have seen what the consequences of this natural disaster appear to be quite clear that Gorski Kotar will not return to normal life for several months. We have entire fields of telephone circuits, electrical distributions that no longer exist that have fallen. The damages of the Croatian forests and others will only be accumulated and will be seen on site, so the damage will certainly be huge. I think that attention should be paid to what the HNS is saying now that we have had in the past few days not only in this area but also in the wider region similar to the situation of a natural disaster, so we know that Slovenia has already taken some actions that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is writing towards Brussels or asking for help. We are now an EU member, and we have the right to help instruments in these situations, so we urge that the government, or the competent ministries, who are in charge of this as quickly as possible go into this procedure, because the reconstruction of Gorski Kotar is likely to take several months, and that we are not at all talking about what resources will be needed for the reconstruction. So I welcome myself in the car today and listen to the Minister of Economy, together with the president of HEP administration, visit Gorski Kotar to see the situation at the scene, but I don't think it'll be enough to just repair this first wave of damage, I think it'll take a lot more power, a lot more institutions that need to be involved in the damage. Here's an appeal, I think the Croatian Parliament should talk about it. Gorans as such, and otherwise our entire mountain Croatia are quite self-secure and somehow we are also normal to have snow and to have elementary disasters, but what happened last weekend in Gorski Kotar does not remember even the oldest inhabitants of Gorski Kotar. Therefore, the completely correct decision of the Mayor of Primorje-Gorski Kotar County to declare a natural disaster, and that we all engage much more together, since otherwise we know that Gorski Kotar is the end that is far below the criteria of the average development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u64128	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u64129	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. The agony of the citizens of Gorski Kotar entered in the fifth day. In these five days, have we seen one government representative or someone who would in these difficult moments, not people are unreasonable and not those people who are taught various weather accidents or unreasonable or are looking for something that they can't, but in such difficult situations, sometimes it's just that the appearance of someone from the officials and a warmer word is more important than any other help. Because people normally mean that when it happens that it is followed by increased efforts by state institutions to help. Maybe this is because the icy rain happens once every 10 years, 20 in these conditions, and you, if you make an appointment now, won't get a chance to fix it, and it's obvious that the state institutions have failed. No one can say that anymore regardless of the political color of belonging here because look, everyone took a nice picture on plus 15 in Dubrovnik at the festival of St. Vlahe, so if once a government plane flew to Krk, it could have landed on Krk instead of in Zagreb and returned via Gorski Kotar with SUVs bought several months ago, so the police were equipped that in such situations it could go on unaccessible terrains, but unfortunately it did not happen. But colleagues and colleagues, we have a chance to maybe prevent this kind of thing from happening in the future. You know very well that on these benches, we had the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, unfortunately, and that's where we split up politically. There we did not think that, unfortunately, something like this could happen, not freezing rain, but something like that, and that these are areas that have special requirements in relation to everything else. Are you in many villages and villages of Gorski Kotar you can't come practically but only by helicopter. And that may be a guideline for all of us to give individual laws that need to be brought into line with EU legislation yes. But nowhere in EU legislation does it say that we should not respect our specialities. And the mountain-mounted areas and the island law are just the highlight of some of the features of the Republic of Croatia. And I agree with what my colleague Đuric said. We simply need to take advantage of what is being provided at this time. You remember 2 years ago, in fact 3 years of great floods when Sava flooded practically this part east of Zagreb, south of Zagreb, that the Slovenians, as a member of the EU, received assistance from the EU. That's where Croatia got one small piece. Yeah, well, the Prime Minister doesn't have to. He could have sent someone down, if they had shown up, if virtually to Brussels he had sent some kind of request on Sunday, it would have been some kind of intervention aid. Because at the end of the day, we're aware of the limitations of our budget. No one's gonna look for something that's impossible. But to help these people in a way that we can help, to show a little bit of that human warmth. I don't think anyone's defending us. And I wouldn't want to pull parallels according to how someone went to help out, pull out, this, that. Unfortunately, there was no one from the Croatian government. Today it is the south and practically the Gorski kotar is starting to defrost today. The fact that some people are coming today is unfortunately getting used to it. And what my colleague Đuric said, yes. That's where the recoverys will last, and the electrical installations and everything. Look at one thing. How will the government withdraw profits from HEP? Let's make a decision not to withdraw profits from HEP, but to put part of it into intervention and to send all HEP forces to Gorski Kotar to resuscitate these power lines and the city's local network, that people have electricity. However, this is how an ordinary citizen sees what he sees on TV and sees the Mountain Service. And this mountain service simply shows us to all that it has become an institution that helps those who need help at the most difficult times. But very interesting when it comes to giving the Mountain Service financial resources, when it is necessary to put them in the position of the state budget, then no one wants to. But now, if it wasn't for the Mountain Rescue Service to those people, practically no one could. 'Cause look, there's no need to criticize a fireman. They simply don't have the technical ability to do some of the things they've done. At the time when they went and practically exposed their own lives, dangers went to help people. So, colleagues and colleagues, this is just another proof that this government refers to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It was not convenient to go to that ice and winter, it was better to make up on Stradun at +15.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u64130	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u64131	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I'm looking for a 15-minute break on behalf of the club. The occasion is the Gorski Kotar, yesterday's adopted Declaration in the County Assembly of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u64132	And what does Parliament have to do with the county?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u64133	Well, I'd like to point out the problems at the Gorski Kotar and what the declaration brings.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u64134	I'm setting up a break to the HDZ Club, the Croatian Labour Club and the HDZ Club. I'm setting a break to 9.42. [[CONTINUE AFTER A MEETING IN 9,42 HOURS]] On behalf of Croatian Labourists – a party of work of colleague Nenad Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u64136	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, in light of the difficult situation in Gorski Kotar, yesterday, the County Assembly of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County adopted a Declaration on the Rescue of Gorski Kotar, a Declaration that will be asked by the Government to adopt the Law on the Gorski Kotar by an urgent procedure. The team today will gather at Mark's square at 12 o'clock and 15 minutes all those who support the declaration, who support the Gorski Kotar and whose heart is the Gorski Kotar. And first of all, they want to save the Gorski Kotar, they want the Gorski Kotar to stay the way it used to be. The mountain cot deserves better. Last week, a concert was held here in Zagreb by Gorana Society here in Zagreb in a humanitarian way to help Gorani in the cataclysm that took place in the second month when the great storm of the mountainous forest and mountainous forest came under fire and brought great material damage. We must not agree to the extinction of one part of Croatia. The proposal for a law on regional development will trigger an additional crisis and boost poverty, as the proposal for regional development places all units of local self-government to the Gorski Kotar are classified in the third and fourth groups of di do not have the right to help from the state. In the early 21st century, Gorana was twice as much as it was in the last century. In the last 50 years, the population rate has exceeded the Croatian average, the status of an extinct population. In 2011, according to the list of 3109 inhabitants of Gorski kotar, there is less. We can only calculate if that pace continues for 8 to 10 years at Gorski kotar there will be no living souls. The economic trends are negative, the decline is productivity, wage reduction, life costs are increasing and higher, municipal costs in local self-government units are the biggest problem, which is from cleaning snow, repairing roads and streets in the spring periods, heating costs, clothing, shoes that Goran needs in winter times, cars and tires that suffer every winter. Part of a cake from our own territory and the whole country benefits from it and Gorani has the least and that is why we live in the Gorski Kotar. It's our woods, it's our waters. By repealing the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, mountain towns and municipalities lose income tax on profits and income taxes of more than 22 million kunas or a quarter of the annual budget of local self-government units. Bus lines, post office, bank offices, gas stations, so-called move. maneuvers from Moravica to Karlovac, layoff of workers, unemployment is 10% of total unemployment in the County of the coastal-goran region. The registered staff at the Employment Office have 1600, the mountain cot really deserves much better. I'd like to remind you of the cataclysm that hit the mountain cotter. The damage to the forest is 242 million kuna. The total damage in the Gorski Kotar is 180m euros. 30 acres of forest has been destroyed. It'll take him to cut down the wooden masses of about a million and 150 meters of cubic. I told you that our forests and waters are already the basic prerequisite of our survival in the Gorski kotar. But the Gorans have very little. The revenue from the forest contribution now that the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area is still in force is only 5%. By abolishing this law, the contribution from the forest will be only 3 and a half percent. We live in the woods, and we have nothing from the woods. Unfortunately, Croatia's forests are a state in the country. Instead of the Gorans having priority in getting forest masses, the mills and factories there have the advantage, mostly the forest mass is exported on trucks to our neighbouring countries because Croatian forests are likely to have a higher profit, and Gorani remains very little So I invite you out, solidarity with the Gorans in 12.15 minutes because it's not 5 to 12, 12 and 15. [[Thank you very much.]] Go to Mark's Square and support the Gorans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u64137	Thank you very much. A colleague but you, as a parliamentary representative, can initiate the adoption of such a law, so you don't have to do it through this way. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u64138	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So the Declaration of the County of the Primorje-Gorski County is nothing more than an attempt to extract from the problems they themselves created. Because nothing's come since yesterday. Unfortunately, the weather was sudden and no one expected it, but a few months ago we discussed two laws of extreme importance in this House. And then from this same pay phone, it can be seen in a phonogram, we have just warned about possible events that may not happen in this form but definitely, regardless of the fact that Europe dictates that we must abolish areas of special state concern and that we must abolish the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas. So one of the greatest opportunities for withdrawing EU funds for more balanced regional development of the Republic of Croatia. How we will make it legal to fit in so that we can withdraw funds and at the same time highlight Croatian specialities and Croatian problems in mountainous and mountainous areas, in areas of special state concern and what is very important must not be forgotten by the Island Act. So these are three areas that, unfortunately, will remain empty if the state doesn't make a policy for people to get a first condition to live there and then simply have some others get the need to go there and live and work. And the government can do it. So I did say that this Declaration of the County Assembly is unfortunately an attempt to correct what went wrong. We discussed the Support Act here yesterday. We were talking about EU funds. So where are the backups supposed to go? That's exactly the kind of area. There you should be encouraged, there you should give every possible and impossible privilege and relief to come, to open some kind of drive, to give people the opportunity to live there. Is some new law that is now about the abolition of some schools also one of the preconditions for these areas to run out of young people, to run out of children? So, because of the speciality of Croatia, because of all the evil that hit us in the early 1990s, so in the time of the Homeland War because of the people who have left and who have never returned, we can do so through the laws. He doesn't have to be called the Law on Areas of Special State Care, he can be called I don't know how. But if we in this House know that through this law we want to solve the problem of the areas that died in the war and in such a way that we want to withdraw funds from the EU that and through some funds from the state budget and public enterprises, because colleagues and colleagues, let us not forget that Croatia's waters have more than 2.5 billion kuna, that Croatian forests have extremely large funds, and that Croatian roads of Croatian citizens annually through those 60 June and now these additional 20 lilies of payments now according to this new one, almost a billion and 800 million kuna. And the logical thing is that, in the pursuit of such funds and the acquisition of such resources, mountain-mounted areas, areas of special state care and islands must have special status. In what the Ministry of Regional Development should have done and not done, because exactly the Ministry of Regional Development is most important in these areas. These areas do not have, are not equipped enough to say so with people who can work on programmes, which is why the Ministry of Regional Development needed for mountainous and mountainous areas and the PPDS needed to make a plan and programme for withdrawing funds from the EU. So that's what we should do. And that's what should have had a clear picture at this point. And the other problem is how to take care of this together. Well, we don't have to go far. Take a look at a Croatian company, I will not mention it here because it is also mentioned in those pre-profit deals, the Slovenians have very much hired it to solve problems in removing problems in the cracked lines of high voltage grids and power lines, and the question is what did the Croatian side do? And secondly, here in this assembly we have heard not once that the Croatian wood industry, first of all, is dealing with these palettes or what is called these new heated materials, so to speak, is yearning for raw materials. Well, isn't this the only practical thing that's happened in the Gorski Kotar is that it can be used for that. So wouldn't it be logical if it were the Ministry of Agriculture, that the Croatian forests had made a plan and a program of how to get it out, how to do it and simply sell it as raw materials to them so that raw materials could not be cut elsewhere? But it was already supposed to be done because it didn't happen yesterday, it happened before. One more sentence, please. [[Thank you very much.]] A few months ago and as they didn't want to go snow and ice two, three months ago, they don't want to see those pictures of broken trees because unfortunately the broken trees paint the state of the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68881	And now we continue in the plenary session of the debate on agenda points. So, it's time to report on the work of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 The report was delivered by the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, you received it. The report was discussed by the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Gender Equality. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Does a representative of the State's Attorney's Office, namely State's Attorney Mladen Bajic, want to give an opening statement? Yeah. Here's your esteemed lawyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68882	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The report of the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia, which is the subject of today's debate, refers to the work of the state's attorneys and to 15 county, 33 municipal State's attorneys and the Office for the Prevention of Corruption or USKOK for 2012. The 2012 report is considered with a certain time-out. For this very reason, however, I will look back at the trends observed in 2013, which in some ways justify parts of the conclusions in our report. The report was made in a standard, common way. In addition, it also prescribes the Law on State Attorney's Office which must contain everything in the report, how it must be methodologically shown and what it must contain. Therefore, it must contain and contain data on the movement and structure of the reported crime, the work on cases relating to the protection of the assets of the Republic of Croatia, and final data on the transactions relating to the protection of legality. In the report, i.e. the tables which, of course, do not occur to me to present them here in particular and repeat them, all the statistical indicators available to the State's Attorney's Office, or the State's Attorney's Office. And with their careful reading, you can come to conclusions that can control the content of our conclusions, that is, our reference to these same statistical indicators. They are objective and depicted as they really happened. We're talking about data. As of next year, the system will finally apply the CTS information system, so the electronic approach to keeping records and all data so that we will be much more objective. The possibility of human error will be eliminated, and on the other hand there will be much more data to be used during the year, not just the beginning of the annual report. As regards criminal cases which were initially processed from our 2012 report, 81897 applications were received in total. Of which 42504 against celebrities and 59,000 against strangers. It is significant that the number of criminal charges filed against celebrities is lower by 10.3% while increasing the number of unknowns by 3%. This trend was continued in 2013 and therefore in serious discussions with the authorities on the detailed analysis of what is going on and whether this is just the result of a revision of criminal law which in an important part of the illegal conduct has transferred us from the sphere of criminal trial to a criminal trial or perhaps something else. We will discuss this in more detail in the 2013 report. As for the work of the state's attorneys on criminal cases, we kept an up-to-date record from earlier years. So the three-month tide is maximum under the quotes of the lags. It's not the backlogs. It's the work on those items. And that update is the same year after year. Compared to our actions, the courts made 22,305 judgments in 2012 against so many persons, including 19,850 or 89% of convicts. The same trend you've seen in the past, not the trend, but the data from the past years, the number of convicts ranging from 87 to 89 a year. So that's where we've reached certain standards that we're basically not giving up on. We're particularly analyzing what we're doing here. alternative means of trial, i.e. resolving these cases where a public lawyer in the previous proceedings is making deals, agreements, proposing criminal orders to the court, etc. in significant contributions to the urgency of the courts or to the acceleration of all proceedings to their power of attorney. We have discussed this very much, we have written a pardon, and we have also explained what is partly in the perception of the Croatian public that these agreements are "under suspicion" of some illegality but irregularities very little, so agreement itself, although it is also the institution that applies the Anglo-Saxon countries but also most of the EU countries where the institute as good has broken into the old continental right and so on. Analysis of criminal offences by individual chapters of the Penal Code was given in a report earlier years. It's as interesting as years ago that the classic crimes of murder, mugging, etc. are at the level of earlier years and they, given the number of inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia and the number of crimes committed, including unknown Croatia, are therefore among the European countries that have the lowest number of these crimes per 100,000 inhabitants. We have specifically worked on, as well as earlier years, the work of USKOK, or the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, which specializes in the State Attorney's Office which deals with organised crime and corruption. We analyzed them a little more in detail, and we noticed that in 2012, there was an increase in the number of criminal cases received was classic corruption or corruption in narrow and broad sense, there were crimes of organised crime. The office's success against the convictions on their charges is even higher than with regular state attorneys, but that's already standard, 94%. For 3.5 years since the application of the new Criminal Procedure Act under which USKOK has been working before, much earlier than regular state attorneys, it has justified its adoption because the new Criminal Procedure Act after 3.5 years already gives the full right to conclude that without these new tools, the Office of Prevention could not achieve results in the fight against corruption, especially those of the largest or most difficult cases. Detailed analyses of the performance of USKOK work are graphically shown in this report and all what USKOK colleagues have been doing on their cases. The organised criminality is the same as in relation to the part-round work of the USKOK, although in principle this is primarily about the organisers of the groups and groups of drug abuses as in earlier years, possibly by outlawing and association for the initiation of these crimes referred to in Article 331 concerning the transfer of persons across borders. We have specifically worked on the chapter on freezing and confiscation of property benefit. We've given statistics for 2012 from the jurisdiction of the USKOK. And in USKOK cases in 2012, 81 million and 389 thousand kuna and a million and a half euros were frozen. Over the reporting period, 71m kuna and 341m euros were seized. As in earlier years, it is particularly interesting, I think we need to keep this in our report, especially the chapter that speaks about the findings of criminal acts and the limitations of fundamental human rights and freedoms. Briefly speaking, about listening in. These data have been in our report for three years now, and they show that the number of such cases is at earlier levels, or even slightly smaller than the number of warrants or slightly higher than the number of persons. 605 orders were issued in 2012 compared to 1831 persons. So we said that we applied listening measures to every 135 applications, or 1 to 2340 citizens. We analyze the reasons for this crime. First of all, it's criminal acts of drug abuse 36%, organised crime 20% and abuse 20% and bribery rest. With regard to the evidence actions proposed by the court, I note that all these evidence actions must be approved by the court on a proposal from the State Attorney's Office or USKOK, therefore it is a matter of judicial decisions in order to avoid misunderstandings, compared to 76% of all proposals, Uskok achieved the result thanks to the evidence actions. The regular lawyers there were slightly more unsuccessful or in 53.4% justified these measures. The fact is that the State's attorneys and the State's Attorney's Department of Attorneys shall carry out specific controls and controls on the application of these measures, in particular their length, scope, etc. And I don't think there's been any significant human rights violations as far as these criminal cases are concerned. There is an important fact that two years ago, just at the initiative of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament amended the law and allowed state lawyers under the control of the court to single out only those talks that are relevant for criminal proceedings and that the rest may be available to the public but not to the public. I think that is why there are no more situations that occurred at the very beginning of the earlier years that in the trials they used to happen that when the evidence was carried out, they entered the area of privacy of the people listened. So, as you know, the State's Attorney's Office is covering the tax of criminal and civil matters of our jurisdiction, we have specifically worked on the part of our report on civil and administrative matters. We've given more in the table information on certain types of civil objects. I will point out that in 2012 we had 52 thousand court cases, of which slightly less than seven thousand litigation cases. We had four thousand administrative cases and 18 thousand state-owned law cases. We gave statistics on the success of these cases, the number of cases in 2012 was slightly reduced and in the civic section compared to the year before. In particular, as in earlier years, we gave a report on the value of disputes, and there are only a few words I would particularly draw attention to, these statistics on the value of disputes and how many states are sued, etc. may in the first wave cause certain alarming conclusions, however, we must be careful here, whether we are objective indicators because according to the signs of the value of the dispute against the lawsuits, but in principle this is not about the value of the dispute in nature, because if we analyse the relationship of lost and won disputes then we will see that the state is not in a negative direction but even more in a positive direction, for example ten billion how much the value of the disputes in itself means nothing, because a few of the claims are indicated by the values of 2 billion and more, and these claims, by our assessment, of course the court will not make such a decision to cause concern or concern about the state budget at least as far as this part of the job is concerned. Data for 2012 show how we were representing the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry and other bodies received litigations in total value of 742 million kuna and lost litigation worth 141 million kuna. So the ratio is one versus six. The State's Attorney-General also highly favoured the conclusion of agreements under Article 186 and the Law on litigation or the amount of court settlement by avoiding unnecessary litigation in a situation where we could or had sufficient parameters to make such decisions. In agreement with the competent ministries, 1528 out of court settlements totalling 247 million kuna were concluded. The trend in increasing the amount of court settlements was continued in 2013. In this respect, the State has a significant cost-saving process, procedures are being accelerated, and courts in that part have far fewer delays because they are usually long-term disputes. In particular, we have explained in our materials and in the annual report staff structure, the number of employees, etc., everything that needs to be made up of our annual report, the number of officials remained the same as in earlier years, the number of employees and subsistence officers, and everything related to the fact that the State's Attorney's Office has taken over from the amendments to the law or the new Criminal Procedure Act, which has taken over a significant part of the work that had not been before and why technical equipment is needed because a number of employees, level of employees and subsistence have taken over. In conclusion, the report stated that the reduction in the number of criminal charges submitted and the continuation of this trend in 2013 required a full analysis primarily by the body of the prevention and reporting of criminal offences in order to determine the actual causes of their movement. Therefore, we believe that it was not only a change to the Penal Code that was a material criminal law and, in part, a procedural one led to this reduction in the number of applications, but that for the next report in 2013 we would have to detail why this happened in order to have reasonable conclusions and we but, of course, you, too, assessing the work and bodies of the detection and prosecution bodies and the State Attorney's Office. Furthermore, despite the takeover of new jobs in the previous procedure, the work of its officials retains the up-to-dateness but also the effectiveness of the procedure. In the area of the prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences and in the protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia, we need to focus particular attention on those ways of work which reduces the number of cases in the court, which are alternative ways of resolving disputes, opportunity, settlements and the like, which requires quality and professional officials, which is why it is necessary to monitor the work of young lawyers in particular and to change the existing system of appointments which is a major obstacle to staffing both courts and state attorneys. In this direction, I am aware that the Ministry of Justice is taking urgent action to come up with legislative solutions that would allow for better flow of professional personnel, but also not closing into a Czech structure as foreseen by the current law. This is the only way we can respond to new challenges, especially in the adoption of European Community law, which is now one of the elements for the successful work of the judiciary as a whole, and in particular the State's Attorney's Office, because, in addition to our legislation, we are directly applying both the rules and the laws and regulations and the EU's instructions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68883	Thank you, too. Dear Attorney General, a replica of the respected representative Goran Maric has been reported to your presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68884	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear State Attorney, aware of the situation and the scope of the business, but here are just a few notes. Due to doubts in some situation that occur in Croatia, I am asked how is it possible that the State Attorney's Office is never in 20 years, and if, I apologize, visited the CNB when the CNB seconds and assisted the collapse of Dubrovnik Bank, Slavonska Banka, Rijeka, Credo, Center of the Bank and all others? How is it possible that she did not also visit the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks when there were many harmful contracts for the damages of the Republic of Croatia on the purchase of Croatian banks, in particular the Slavonska Banka, which caused the Croatian state to pay the damages due to the sale of 34m euros? The question arises how is it possible that 40 billion kunas placed from Croatian banks, money from uncharging loans or partly remunerated loans, and that no one answered only from large banks, but only from small ones? How is it possible that even in a small bank, one administration is in jail, and the other one gets bonuses, and she also approves loans that are not chargeable, and that's a failed firm, and that's a bigger amount than what was? Only a superficial review of the balance sheet suggests that Jadrankamen, Immunologically could not fail or Dalmatia without irregularities. But since I'm running out of time, I've had a few more questions, and I have a request, a few dozen people from the area of Psunja, Rakovica and Cettingrad about the crimes that happened down there, so they asked me to hand over two books of the crime without punishment, so I think they'll be of use to you in your work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68885	Thank you, too. The answer to the replica? Yeah. Dear, no, not now. Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to make their views about the debate? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Branko Vukšić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68886	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Attorney. At the very beginning, I would initially paraphrasing Immanuel Kant, "I have the courage to use my own mind," which means that I did not become aware of the orderly figures and charts in this softly-recorded report. It is a dry statistics that has not provided relevant answers to questions about the essential problems that have been wrinkling Croatia for more than 2 decades. Corruption and crime remain the most sustainable and tough industries and the most profitable economic activity. For the Croatian society is still tolerant to corruption and crime, for despite verbal equilibrists about zero tolerance to corruption, there is no social condemnation of criminals, for the questionable types of people with tons of butter on their heads are treated in public as pillars of society, it is wrong to do so. And that inaction of all three levers of power. It's wrong of the camelism of politicians who say one thing when they're in opposition, and it's quite the opposite when they come to power. For the continued high degree of corruption that research has witnessed for 2013 in which we are stepping forward and below the European average, the powers of one authority holding evidence in the dark of its drawers against the powers of another government, powerful men who may not have such evidence and a hard international background, are responsible to be replaced by inaction. Since I've never used an esophageal language, here's the necessary identification. It is certainly about Chief State Attorney Mladen Bajic and the executive authorities whose functions have been to date the majority of the assembly. Now, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic would ask a logical question, which would be Bajic's interest in holding compromising evidence against political powers in the drawer? The secret of freedom rests in courage. After all, we know that they are for the bold heart and the leopard and the sheep, and the fearsome spirit is seen in the gazelle of the tiger. If you listen superficially to who was praising, and whoever defiled the reports, or the work of the State's Attorney's Office personified in Mr Mladen Bajic, and when he did so, you will not find it difficult to notice that Bajic's rule generally praises him, and the opposition that was once the rule of law will generally be lower. But the strangest thing is, the saddest thing is that the people who took Bajic out when they were in the opposition, even though the state's attorney didn't change the style of work or the pace of work, when they came to power of change and rhetoric and attitude towards the attorney general. Does this mean that Mr. Bajic's style and pace are changing now? No, by changing the titlers of power, interests are changing, and pressure is also moving on those who have just been pushing. This report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office has only been rooted into reality. A statistic that speaks in essence, about the natural system of the most powerful persons of the two authorities. That is why I said at the outset that I would not be seduced by the figures that you all have ahead of you, the figures that all interested citizens can find on Parliament's or DORH's websites but, in essence, by which Croatian authorities hear European objections wrongly, citizens cannot find in the report or letters. It will be very interesting to hear about the work of the State Attorney's Office by MPs from the Kukuriku coalition whose prime minister gave precise qualifications and gave unequivocal assessments of the work of Mladen Bajic. In 2010, when the Parliament debated whether Mr. Bajic should be allowed to manage the DORH for another 4 years, SDP President Zoran Milanovic vigorously opposed these words, "We need Elliot Ness, not Mladen Bajic, who lacks barbecue, commitment, enthusiasm and working talent. Croatia will be hostage to one person for another 4 years in the fight against corruption." Because it has the custom to keep cases in the drawer, Arsen Bauk explained in 2010 today the minister in Milanovic's government because many of the items on Stan Bayu Bajic should be called Stan Bajic. Still, according to Zoran Milanovic, spoken in opposition circumstances, the long-standing chief lawyer who experienced the same place and the 4th prime minister is still in something active. It is active to quote Mr Milanovic "in listening to state policy". It is not difficult to conclude from quoted that Mladen Bajic praises those in power mostly untouchable by claiming that his greatest virtue is independence. But when these same politicians fall from power, the criteria fall. Suddenly overnight, the state's chief attorney, the same person they complimented on independence, became addicted. About who? About the government. He once praised Bajic Ivo Sanader, that today he would pour wood and stones on the main state attorney with whom he was in excellent relations. What was flawed in 2010 to the attorney general, today seems to be a virtue. What's changed? Power. The relationship seems to have remained the same. In the meantime, did Mr. Bajic become Elliot Ness? It's not, or we're cowardly, we haven't noticed that incredible metamorphosis. A similar attitude towards Mr. Bajic had former RS President Stjepan Mesic. The claim "Bajic keeps cases in drawers" has turned into praise for several years in changed circumstances. We must not be unjust to Bajic, he has done the maximum. Did he offer arguments for that assessment? It's not. But for that first qualification, arguments were offered on their own from time to time. Mr. Bajic continues to capture or persecute only political dead and those who no longer have a political background. There are countless arguments for that claim. The most obvious case is Sanader or the Nadan Vidosevic case. For years or indeed, journalists have warned the public, and then, of course, the DORH is understood to be disproportionate to the assets and incomes of Sanader, Vidosevic and many other arrogant and kletomaniac powers. Hundreds if not thousands of texts and newspapers and portals, hundreds of radio, television shows have been spent on suspicions of illegal anti-legal activities of politicians in power, their decent associates and associates, tycoon with gold needles and kunas that have garnered Croatia's state and Croatian citizens. Here is a text by Milan Ivkošić written five years ago where exactly what makes these people behind bars fit today. That's when it didn't react. He responded to the current president of the state Ivo Josipovic if Bajic had corned too soon, he would have ended up in a pot. But that doesn't seem to agree with Zoran Milanovic, who says, "The job of a state lawyer is not an art creation but a hard work that can only be evaluated in total. The state's attorney's job to corn at any time at least end up in a pot." What time does he date a citation quote in a pot? 2010 of course. Today, Mr Milanovic would probably speak, I conclude, on the basis of a Camelot change of opinion on labour legislation quite differently. Why? Because he's looking at things from another powerful perspective. Isn't it the turn of the state's attorney-general to corn in the Merzel or Shegon cases, which were well done by journalists, to whom Bajic should give at least half his salary and back for at least ten years? For what? Because of consistency, because of howling at times when he didn't dare to whine. Many journalists have lost their jobs due to timely wheezing, and the chief state attorney is silently waiting for better times and getting off the authority of those who will investigate for the state's work. What injustice! Unlike journalists who do not have feelings for politically self-sustainable timing who do not have time to study what information can bring them but are forced to hurry, the attorney general has an outstanding sense of time in order not to end up in a pot. And when singing where the job is to corn, which the opposition Milanovic agrees with, does not corn enough or not in time, the roaches should be thrown into the pot without remorse, and the throwing for reasons of money was very, very much. And now there's a lot of them. Especially those who have injured tens of thousands of citizens, I will mention only some Kamensko, Jadrankamen, HZ, HEP, Vesnik, HAC, HGK, Pliva, INA, Hypo banka, Daimler, Podravka, Brodosplit, Đakovština, HRT, URIHO. The figures of God’s employers, managers, mixed-ups who destroyed the Jadrankamen company, which is almost impossible to destroy because of the world of unique raw materials, continue to defy both justice and workers. When will this destruction be processed? And is the reason for the destruction of the Adriatic and the closure of the quarry the interest of the owners of surrounding lands that will be turned into construction? It's an attractive land and, of course, a big profit, a profit in destroying especially human fates. But who else thinks of the people of those little ordinary people who make it profitable to step on because they are invisible to the government and state institutions. And the attractive location of the Vjesnik is pushed under the carpet. The protagonists of all HAC affairs are still pillars of society. Of the three veronic tenors, only one is explored on other grounds. When you applied for another term in 2010 Mr. Bajic, you announced the acceleration of the Hypo Bank investigation, then you said you knew of 200 suspicious accounts to which the money was being poured, you asked for the support of the Parliament to get the names of those hiding behind those accounts in Austria as soon as possible. It's been four years and we don't know what the result of the investigation is. We don't know if this thief is being investigated. Did that investigation get lost in this sea number? When you asked the Parliament for a new mandate, so four years ago you said from this place that the DORH had knowledge, agreements between INA, more specifically political powers and MOL came through power. It's about the report we're discussing and this case. And is the Daimler case that has been tangled by two governments part of this report? The Đakovština case says there are still untouchables in Croatia, because you are sorry to buy wheat at twice the price of the market and get out of it, and it is a waste of merchants' easy claims that you did not know that stolen grain can only drink water in the Croatian judiciary. Since privatisation robbery and war profits do not go out of date, have some of the many privatisation cases drowned in DORH's 2012 labour statistics. For the attorney general, many claim to be a master virtuoso for teaming. In addition, this report, which was submitted in August 2013, is being discussed 6 months later. It is hard for anyone to believe that your performance in the Parliament today, and all that is said about the Report, and all that the representatives of the ruling coalition will say about the report, but also parts of the opposition have nothing to do with any new mandate. It would be really polite for citizens to really not speak from the speaker’s tongue but to enlighten us, which is why most of the affairs of many billions of kunas need to be enlightened in relation to our lifetime for eternity. Whether or not the HBOR investigations will be conducted and the case of Shegon suggests that there are mutators in it waiting for years or at least until they leave the Kukuriku furniture. Yes, the report indicates the difficulties with which the Gomba DORH – lack of money, space, information equipment. Money for the DORH if investigations and court proceedings were faster could be considered an investment. In addition, so far, the 143 court proceedings have been taken away from property worth 90 million kuna. It's just as much in unfinished processes as it is frozen. Although a piece has been robbed, the work of the DORH can be even though it is a piece of the robbed work of the DORH can be profitable, much more profitable than it has been so far. It is very likely that the government will accept your report, which is a sign that both the government and the ruling majority in the Parliament are satisfied with your participation in the fight against corruption, organised crime. It is not impossible to become a four-life state lawyer soon, and to welcome another prime minister in the same position with thin results. You can't expect a Labourer to do that. Then, it should be noted that it is certainly unusual for journalists who have discovered various affairs to walk with two bodyguards. You are walking freely around the city of Zagreb which you want to continue, not to be threatened. You announced in an interview or in one statement that you will likely remain in the DORH until 2020, which is likely to come true. And quite at the end. Is there a country other than Croatia in which there is a high degree of corruption and in which the government considers the State's Attorney's Office to be successful, that the State's Attorney's Office has given maximum. Maybe it's Korea, Turkmenistan or some other country. A report that doesn't answer the most important questions but is a mere statistic, it can be a damn lie, it can't be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68887	Thank you, Your Honor. Eight replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's get this straight. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68888	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, you quoted at the beginning of your presentation of Kant. We and our local authors, like Dimitri Demeter, who said "simple birds fly" which would be kind of adequate to what you said about Immanuel Kant. When you talked about the main features they marked, so the state's attorney's period, then you said it was a good teaming. That's number one. And the other is incendiary. And now in this latest case, you've even mentioned the case of the one who's been pulling out of the paper for seven, eight days. I wonder if it's actually allowed to anyone who's suspected of hiding and destroying evidence, influence on witnesses, repetitive acts, etc. Although for all of this, therefore, in the qualification of the extension of the detention of our doctor Babic when he was spectacularly arrested, these three items that were placed on him to extend his detention for a month. Although the crime that's been spoken of lasts 17 years even. So it's really paradoxical. After all, I would just like to add that the HDSSB has referred to the parliamentary procedure of the law, a bill that, regardless of the name, I am not going on behalf of Mr. Bajic, but anyone who is a state lawyer, the attorney general, that a maximum of two mandates can be given by the attorney general. However, the Croatian Parliament did not accept it by saying something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68889	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68890	Dear colleague Grubisic, I don't know the answers to those questions. That'll probably be answered by Mr. State's Attorney. However, it raises doubts about what you said, as I was saying in my statement that some people may be given time to remove the thresholds of their unclean, so that they can influence witnesses, to remove some important papers. And I agree with you disproportionately between two cases, one case is HBOR, i.e. Shegon and the case of Babic, who is the doctor I know, who is not some slave person who was brought into handcuffs, taken with several, accompanied by several police officers. However, the damage done by Mr Babic may have done far less than the damage that may have been done just by working in HBOR or by working at the Ministry of Finance or by working in the Tax Administration, i.e. with unhappiness and glare. Certainly, Mr Babic, when compared to what Mrs Merzel did, also the doubts and papers that were submitted also talk about disproportionateness towards people who are in power and those who do not have a political background. Of course, those are all our doubts. We're here to question, we're here to have our views and I said yesterday in a debate that if I change, if I ever take part in power and change my mind, I don't think I deserve to sit in this House anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68891	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68892	Thank you. So here you are a colleague in the initial part of your debate who presented the thesis that Croatian society is tolerant to corruption and crime. I don't think that I agree with you here, I think that Croatian society is not tolerant to corruption and crime, that Croatian society has been more prone to corruption and crime that has been marked practically since the beginning of the establishment of the Croatian state to this day. I think it's my impression that today this corruption and crime is less pronounced than it was expressed 5 or 10 years ago, that society is more sensitive than it was 5 or 10 years ago. But I agree with your feeling of frustration that I am actually sharing that our competent state bodies are still not at that level, in fact, the efficiency that citizens expect, which we as advocates expect to feel in this society, that indeed those who steal from Croatian citizens, who steal from the Croatian budget, who do harm this Croatian society really are sanctioned. And in particular, there is a problem with the feeling that justice is not justice if things go terribly slowly with delays that are incredible and how in fact in investigations, the defendants' proposals and finally the rightful judgments if and when they actually happen. And justice is not justice if it happens for 15 or 20 years at the end of a crime. Sam's chief attorney is actually as a person in some way a personification, not the only natural link in the whole conflict of that situation but certainly a very significant link. Also, when it comes to Uskok we've been looking for a raise... And colleague Kosor was [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68893	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68894	Dear counterpart Djurovic, I'll start from the end of your line, and that's what you said to the state's attorney is just a personification of everything that's going on in the State's Attorney's office. That's what I was saying, as well, absolutely certain that not all responsibility on one man. But he's a conductor, he's conducting, and the orchestra plays as he conducts. Like the conductor and the weakest link, that is, Prime Minister Milanovic is not ministers. Because if Prime Minister Milanovic had done otherwise, we'd be doing different ministers and we'd be some other ministers in the government. Therefore, we cannot exculpate the responsibility of the man in charge. You said that Croatian society might not be tolerated but that it's Googled on, so I think it's almost similar. I'll show you this text again. That was before the presidential election. Everything is numbered, what is today put as a crime on the back of Mr. Vidosevic. That was five years ago. So, it was all numbered and it says the message of the top hijack where you get it. And it's all numbered. Nevertheless, despite hundreds of texts on Mr Vidosevic, citizens voted. And that was a good, decent result. The citizens voted for some, I remember the MPs had a duel somewhere not to mention the ex-boyfriend here from the first bench on my left who was teaching lessons, and he was sentenced to jail time. He gave moral lessons. Therefore, no one has rebelled. Remember when the journalists resisted, I wrote one, hundreds of texts about corruption affairs, told me I was a traitor, that I was working against the Croatian state. I've been out of work for two years. So, I know what I'm talking about, and I think that as a society, we're too tolerant of corruption. And it is absolutely certain that both the attorney's office and everything that happens in Croatia can happen because there is no conviction and no sanctioning.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68895	Honorable representative Mirela Holly, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68896	My dear colleague, I agree with your debate, and especially with your findings because it is my impression that Mr. Bajic is more of a politician than a state lawyer. He's good to all governments, doing good political work for them. When something is needed, there are affairs that are of interest to the ruling furniture. In that sense, I would like to mention a case of significance, namely in 2008 my colleague Mondekar and I filed criminal charges against the responsible persons in connection with the resolution of the Salonite. This application also referred to both the area of environmental protection, i.e. unprofessionally done environmental affairs, and doubtful that these financial malversions were taking place. And after two years, I received a reply from the State's Attorney's Office saying that the criminal application is being rejected because, quote, "No proceedings have been established that would indicate any crime." Nine months after that, the DORH launched an investigation, we know what's going on, Mr. Mladneo is arrested, and suddenly there are clearly different circumstances and it is determined that there are suspicions of a criminal offence. I don't think the State's Attorney's Office should behave that way, and I didn't see that they were possibly responsible for such non-treatment being sanctioned in the State's Attorney's Office. It is a very bad message to the entire Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68897	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68898	Here's what I'm gonna say at the beginning. I agree. So when I was getting ready and I was really getting ready to read a bunch of documents, texts about the State's Attorney's office's report or the state's attorney's office. There's a hell of a lot of cases here. People came to me here to the Parliament what I know from the Adriatic Stone, many from Urich, with documents and I asked well what you brought me documents, says all these documents are with the state's attorney. The Adriatic Stone is an example of how you can destroy an indestructible company with resources that are fantastic, for which it pits the whole world and how the people who have destroyed the Adriatic Stone teach even suing, haunt workers as we treat the workers as the culprits. You've heard countless times that it's their fault that the Adriatic is a stone, there's hundreds of millions of kunas pulled out. Who cares? Nobody cares. Those who destroyed it, who were haraking there today are free citizens and can sue those, fortunately not in this period when we have immunity and often even those who are outside, remember those who fled to the judiciary sue for slander and robbed Croatia, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who dared raise their voice. We're certainly not here to judge, we're here to warn, we're here to point our finger at what we don't think is right. The Salonite Rehabilitation is certainly one of the examples, and many things you know better than I have happened in this area. That money was taken with shovels, it was warned but unfortunately it didn't respond in time, the damage would be less.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68899	Thank you very much. Respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68900	Your Honor, Mr. President. Here's a colleague, Lesar, you said, forgive her, colleague Vuksic, that the chief state attorney is active in reading the current authorities. At first glance it looks like it's an accusation of the ruling set, but basically when you think about it a little bit, when you see what this government is doing, it's actually a compliment and we can agree with that because there's no independent justice without the atmosphere, a policy where it's happening that has removed its hands from the judiciary, both the state's attorneys and the court. If you think this is my personal impression, I will read to you the current European Commission report on Croatia, a report on the repression of corruption in the EU, where it is said that Uskok as well as the police national anti-corruption office therefore PNUSKOK has carried out effective investigations, of course there is still room for improvement, but unfortunately it is often not properly imposed by courts. Furthermore, as it has been found that the action of state attorneys is of such nature that it is completely removed from politics, you can read it, it is available. The conference also appeared to have been held in December, early December of last year, where Croatia was found to be ahead in the countries of Southeast Europe in curbing corruption and organised crime. Far from being satisfied and, of course, expecting rapid reactions, it is expected by citizens. So, you were mostly talking about all those preparations, everything the media has written about in the last ten years, and at least you looked back at the work of the State's Attorney's Office for 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68901	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68902	First of all, colleagues Antičević-Marinović, I don't even know what the State's Attorney's Office was doing in 2012 except for this statistics, I told you at the beginning to listen well that I didn't become conscious of statistics. This is mere statistics. I don't know which cases are specifically processed, which aren't, so I asked some questions. I don't know if you're negotiating some people from the Justice Department with an executive or not, I don't know. First of all, I didn't charge the executive authority or the state's attorney. But I doubt that someone is listening because it's impossible for all of this to happen by accident, that all of this, all of those arrests that were before and that happened today that she happened by chance when we know that the affairs were talked about significantly earlier, that even the affairs were corrected with concrete data, should only be taken and investigated, so I was saying that journalists should be able to get part of the salary of not only Mr. Bajic because they would not take it but should also be stimulated for work that they were working and not paid. How much your authority affects the power of judgment I don't know. I only know, and I was saying this here in the Parliament that more than once, the executive power has the right to talk about it and to give assessments of how the judicial authority works and the judicial authority is not protected and under the glass bell so that it can't accept the remarks that come from policy lines. I'm one of those who opposes being protected by sacred cows.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68903	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68904	Thank you. Dear colleague Vuksic, I highly appreciate your literary efforts but this really is not a literary group but a Croatian Parliament. You said at the beginning that you weren't Ezop which is obvious although the main character in your pledo is a certain singer and not a state's attorney, so it looked like some kind of peradarian culinary exhibition on the route of the singer-lonac-kitchen. That's my experience when we're talking about the literary dimension of your performance. As far as the facts are concerned, you said it yourself, and now you've said that you're actually not interested in what the report says because I quote you, "I'm not going to be impressed by the numbers!"but for what? With Mr. State's Attorney's mustache, his department, his hairstyle, I don't know what. We're talking numbers here and we're talking report. I'd ask everyone and everyone else to focus on the report, on the data that's inside, and not on ours, I don't know what preferences literary, literary, poetic, artistic here now. There are other places for this, not the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68905	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68906	Mr. Jurovic, very short. So low and grounded that I can't get to you. Unfortunately, your grief is that we can communicate with the same language that is certainly far below the level that should be cherished here in the Parliament. And that's your problem that you think it's another sentence, that it's literature that doesn't belong to the Parliament. The curses are falling.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68907	Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68908	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Just in principle, since you mentioned some names and some processes to your colleague Vuksic, it means current processes to people who are being tried, to some who are being given first degree judgments. It's just a suggestion to leave ourselves separate cases and not to comment on individual objects and people because it could certainly and equally be understood as a kind of pressure on courts. As you well know, the President of the County Court reacted very sharply to an unnamed source from the top of the government when a particular process was also commented, I think it would be good given the independence of all three pillars of government that we, too, behave in the legislative authority. So, that the cases that are under way, investigations that are under way, but in particular trials in courts, processes in courts that are not completed not specifically not to comment, because we could certainly understand ourselves and then we could all one day end up in a court in Strasbourg. And the other thing, you mentioned the press and kind of glorified their role. A lot of it was done by journalists and the media, but you'll remember as well as I did that there were journalists who were glorified by certain people and people who, powerful people, were then the first to bury them afterwards. So journalists and media have their place, but institutions are still irreplaceable. And I agree with you, there is always a need to encourage additional independence of an institution such as the DORH and the BOOK.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68909	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68910	Dear colleague Kosor, I don't agree with you about the pressure on the court. Tell me, what about the pressure of courts on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? The trials go on indefinitely. What's up with that? How can we influence? With my comments, how can I affect the judge? The judge can also influence me with his inaction. Where does it say, in what law, that it must not be commented? No pressure, you can imagine Mr. Turudic being afraid of Branko Vuksic. And Mr. Turudic, whom he has appointed directly as president, is being seduced by Mr. Sanader. I agree with you that many journalists have written panaegirics about some people who are behind bars today and have changed their minds afterwards. But they are responsible for their actions, and I have never hidden either that face of journalism, nor am I going to lift up too much into the sky that profession, and it has its faults. But it is quite certain that it has helped greatly in the democratic atmosphere in the Republic of Croatia and has helped a great deal to expose many of the affairs that have occurred. In addition, remember all those inscriptions on the portals and in newspapers that preceded the investigations, i.e. opening some proceedings. So I don't think they're chocolate judges, and I think the judges are real stand-ups people who do their job and don't care what we say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68911	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68912	Thank you very much. Your colleague Vuksic, you spoke about what parliamentary representatives had talked about before about the state's attorney, and you stated that Mr Milanovic, what his opinion was about him. But Mr. Milanovic also said he is not in a state of disaster. Well, it's not, for individuals it's idyllic, not catastrophic, but for most, it's unsustainable. We're witnessing that the budget is firing, the state is firing, and I think the government is shooting. The state of affairs is more affected by irregularities that have occurred than by the economic crisis, but I disagree with you that the State's Attorney's Office is not working. I think the State's Attorney's Office is the most employed institution in the Republic of Croatia and will only be more employed. Because it's impossible to say a company that operates and makes a net profit in one year of 115 million kuna, it has a capital return of 99.58%, but next year it ends up in a pre-profit settlement. It is impossible, as it is impossible for Jadrankamen to end without irregularities, so it is impossible for a media advertising company without a single employee to earn 250 million kunas of income and associated persons a billion kuna. So only when it becomes the subject of an investigation, such cases, when they become pre-warrant settlements, become the subject of investigation, when they become pre-warrant proceedings, and bankruptcy managers. When it becomes a sale of Croatian insurance and such companies and such sales. Well, the State's Attorney's office will have to hire twice as many people as it has today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68913	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68914	Dear counterpart Maric refuses right at the end and speech of his statement that the State's Attorney's Office can be a very profitable, profitable job one being done in the State's Attorney's Office and certainly that these data that are here in the book that the State's Attorney's Office has been working. But you spoke well, you also spoke of the atmosphere. I think this particular selection, it's my impression, the objects, the cases create a bad atmosphere in society, apathy. People feel powerless when they see those who should be processed, those who have ten times the amount of their income, and are not processed, have not for years. And I just don't know what, whose decision someone says is enough, I guess. I guess there's a limit, I don't know who's saying it. Just remember how many discussions there were before the opening of some cases, and it was also evident that evidence was subsequently supported by the State's Attorney's office that it was true. It's creating a bad atmosphere. I don't think the State's Attorney's office is working there, it's working. There are cases, but I'm saying when are these open cases coming up today? In a few years? That slow justice will do a lot of damage as many billions of kunas have been sucked out without talking about what we put into the Constitution so as not to obsess over converted crime, wealth to... not to become obsessing. So now we're all saying there's been a robbery of those years but I don't see cases opening.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68915	Dear Representative Josip Djakic is a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68916	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's colleague Vuksic, you've listed everything that's happened in the past tense. You forgot one statement by Mr. Nenad Stazic in front of the SDP club when he said the following "I say the SDP club will not accept this report and here's why, we do not see efficiency in the work of the State's Attorney's Office when it comes to the prosecution of criminal offences in which the perpetrators are or where there is a reasonable or justified suspicion that the perpetrators are in the circle of politics. As a first example, I'm going to take that worst, possibly most famous, trucking affair by the MORH." And then he talks about how the affair was triggered by the High Commander of the Armed Forces. I would take the opportunity in this replica today to say how today that same commander of the Armed Forces charged by a Finnish state lawyer that he is among those who received the money is not on the wallpaper of the State's Attorney's Office. Does politics really dictate the pace when and who will be processed?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68917	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68918	My colleague Djakic is absolutely certain that it is good to remind ourselves of what we are saying in the Parliament, as we said yesterday, as we say today, as we say. I'm glad the gentleman who was accused got his satisfaction and the court actually has that last word. We agree with that or disagree with that. What Mr. Stazic was saying, it seems to me that he was also the head of the Assembly Committee on Trucks, and it seems to me to be a first-degree verdict, I'm not sure if it's a first-degree verdict or if there's still a continuation of the trial. There are mistakes between politicians and judges, with the least I can justify Mr. Stazic. We need to measure our words and answer for our words.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68919	We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is the club of independent representatives and respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68920	Your Honor, Mr. President, Chief State Attorney, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Yes, not every violin can neither be the first violin nor any first violin can be a conductor. And ours is not here to judge, but to speak. But what is most important is to make sure that politics moves as far away as possible from the DORH or from the judiciary as possible. I'm going to say about what I was saying and let's say when someone mentions 2010 and I'm going to be there for this report and I'm going to support this report. I think the point of this report is primarily said here on page 44, so all this way is up to 48, where it's about criminal acts of economic crime, and then it's said that in 2012, 2144 people, charged with 1191, were convicted of 1216, and of which there were 962 persons. For what? For counterfeiting money, money laundering, injuries I don't know about tax evasion, injuries to bookkeeping, etc. And I am pleased that Mr Maric mentioned among other things the abuse of bankruptcy or bankruptcy. There was if I'm not mistaken, what, 17+1 people. But I think that this should be spoken honestly because today, in these pre-war deals, individuals in order to bypass real believers are increasingly fictitiously stuffing claims through their related companies and actually playing with real believers. What might be even more interesting to us, and we're all a bit bloody under the skin, these are crimes against official duty, meaning the structure of movement, from giving official secrets, giving bribes, receiving bribes, embezzlement, embezzlement in service, illegal mediation, and not to speak any further. And that's where the 2011 person was reported. I will not now talk about the process of rejection in certain criminal acts, or these rightful simple judgments. But what I want to talk about is the same thing. I don't have anything personal against anyone to understand, I've never filed any criminal charges for anyone in my life or thought to do that, but I think I can speak. And it's my job to talk. I even dare say that until the DORH enters the DORH there will be no luck. I don't think it's on the DORH that operates at national level, but I think it's on those local either municipal, or county. And it doesn't matter if this is about Istria or if it's about some other state's attorneys outside of the space I'm talking about. It is clear as Mr Vuksic said, so Croatia has problems. And exactly, they didn't steal Croatia from the outside, just the opposite. They stole her under quotes from the best sons. The same goes for Istria, Dubrovnik, for I do not know Osijek, Zagreb, Vinkovce or Varazdin. People who in the 1990s had nothing today became pillars of society. Perhaps this Adriaticman, spoken of by Mr. Vuksic, is a paradigm of such one conduct. But to me, it doesn't only matter who ruined such a society, but who made it possible for individuals to reach that society. Finally, did the privatisation in Istria not know people outside Istria? Well, they're not. Did agricultural land for one kuna or for less purchase by people outside Istria? No, they're not. Did the hills take over the people of Istria outside Istria? No, they're not. Did jobs in Istria set up people outside Istria? No, they're not. But the same thing is true for, say, Dalmatia, same goes for Međimurje, same goes for Slavonia, same goes for Banovina or some other Croatian neighborhood of Lika, etc. As long as we don't get rid of crime, we're all bloody under the skin. Nepotism as long as we don't sanction shopping, and I'll talk more about it media affections, I'll say that in Croatia there will simply be no happiness. What does that really mean? I'll take my turn. People who work on these jobs in DORH, we have to protect them. People who work these jobs in the police department, we have to protect the judiciary. These people have to be autonomous. They must be independent. What do we got? The largest employer in Croatia we agree there is a state. It's local self-government, it's public enterprises. I can even mention it. It's too bad we didn't have that report on Croatian Radio. For legal services only, they pay 40 and a few million kunas. Where do DORH people sometimes end up? In systems, I don't know big companies or take over jobs for public companies or work for local self-government. They don't know property-law issues, this or that, they make millions. Could these people have been independent? Well, that's what you can talk about. Could they have been autonomous? So let's talk about it. But it's like when one of the former state's attorneys took over what they call those criminal organizations here in Zagreb. Maybe everything and there was a lot of artis and we could talk about it. And that's why these DORH people don't, under quotes, become prostitutes, but guarantee them one full-time job security and normally adequate incomes. I wouldn't be if I didn't mention a few Istrian cases. In the first place, I want to say something about drugs. And I'm still asking myself who's protecting who? I think the new chief of police, Mr. Cestar or the headmaster, is doing a good job anyway. In one year, I will say that in Istria, 500 syringes, 500 kilo syringes, a kilo of syringes are collected. It's a small truck of these I don't know any addicts. We have the most serious problem in the country, nothing. Someone gets drunk, the whole state talks about it for seven days. Someone pulls shit, nobody gets anything, and the drugs start selling on the stock, you buy grams, you get two grams. Before you get home, before the pizza comes. And look, it's not a joke, ma'am, it's just like that. Buy a gram, get two grams. Buying media. The local self-government at the annual level I will mention Istria, for Istria stands out 7 and a half to 10 million kunas. In four years 40 maybe more than a million kunas. I'm not talking about elections, I'm talking about what's being paid annually to promote or encourage pluralism or I don't know what. And it's similar elsewhere. What money? Public money, our money, our citizens' money. I don't even think about the PR agency, even though I dare say that Fimi Media is a sweet mother to someone called the PR agencies in Istria. Because what happened with Fimi Media lasts a year or two days, this lasts 6, 7 or I don't know how many years. Everybody's quiet, okay. Keep them quiet. All the best, but I think how bad they made me feel that I have the right to talk about it. I wouldn't even mention it, but this media buy is really a shame for some people. And if we want to, then those spaces are stagnating. Everything's being bought. I have nothing to do to get someone to come with their money and simply buy some space, do whatever they want. But when you do it to the public money. What are the criteria for doing this? Where are your public tenders? What's the money for? If that's not a question, then I'm asking myself what's questionable. We have pro bono advisors on some televisions. I don't have anything against anyone, but I'm gonna say it again, and they've done me so much damage, I won't keep my mouth shut. You've got TV, okay. You pay to keep the press in Istria ok. Milanovic made a decision out of state-owned companies. Everyone stood up against him because of it, today they call him, and on that day, the city of Pula concludes a contract with one PR agency probably by law. I didn't say it wasn't, but I know that's why we're going back. And I mean, he's just going back. And just to say Istria in 2002, 36.6% had more GDP than Croatia, and today it has 28%. We were 18% with Zagreb, today 36%. We were in 2002. 18% ahead of the Primorje-Gorski County, today simply 4%. I know that others go even faster than we do. I think it's better if someone is to blame for 100 years on the loose than not for one day in custody but for someone to press charges or I don't know how to start an investigation against him. And that's why normal and responsibility is first of all on the DORH or that conductor to take care of it. And do not pack for anyone, nor for Sanader, nor for Vidosiah, nor Cain, nor for anyone else. Here's Sanader, for example. The only war profiter. And now with him and Mr. Babic. Maybe so, but just the only one, the first one and ours is the biggest one. Okay, I hear he's not the only one. I don't know that again, but I don't think it's necessary for everyone else to work, so clearly it's necessary to act. And it's not that we don't know and it's not that we don't remember simply in the '90s and the paradigm I'm going to tell one authority, my authorities down there doesn't matter, is how you acquire a hill in the bales. When individuals bought everything that the state had, all that the local self-government had then it became clear to them, and then they began to use the difficult position to say Istrian hard, or my Buzeans would say to the farmer what when I tell the farmer it still sounds bitter, you buy us a strong boss in translation for 1, you sell for 25. Now, that's possible today, that wasn't possible in '91, '93, '95. Or '96. If we don't get up against it, then we just don't need the DORH, we don't need the BOOK or the local self-government, we don't need the state. And there will be a simple end. And I'll also say that we're all bloody under the skin, someone more, someone less. Neither is Kai's saint, but I'm gonna say it one more time and I got a mandate to speak, so I'm gonna use it. But some for two paid children, let's say there you can call them, where they were in the '90s, and others for which some were here or we were tycoons in the '90s are these other pillars of society today and a lot of it. I know it won't be possible down here anymore, but it's all because we're all going to suffer. I'm going to say once again, I support this report, I'm going to vote for this report, I don't think it's a problem on the highest level when it comes to DORH, but that the problem is somewhere else. And I can paraphrasise that once again every violin can't be the first violin, and certainly not every first violin can be the conductor. And maybe for the end, just to find out, the side seems to me to have written down 87, yes, legal opinions under special laws. The agricultural land law, it's blocked when it comes to Istria. Why? Because only two legitimate demands have come to the Ministry of Agriculture. And let's see, so in 2012, Pula means 409 contracts came in, positive opinions were 152, negative 257. But what was done with this land to paraphrase the Bible was simply a cave of robbers, where, for example, three, four cartons of cigarettes came up to 1,000 square meters, for 100 liters of oil up to 1 hectare of agricultural land, and later it would be redeployed and it was known to be then sold. One word to quote in accordance with Article 72. The Law on Agricultural Land The State Attorney's Office gives a preliminary opinion on the draft long-term lease contracts and the draft contract on the sale and lease of agricultural land. These processes that have been stopped in Istria and I think it was necessary to disable the sale of the same but to be leased, should be speeded up, and that is where we must all make sure that these requirements look as the legislator does. All in all, this is statistics, it's ours to talk about, and others will call us out for it. It is our job to guarantee independence to the judicial institutions, and to the DORH, and let justice be done even if the world fails. Without that luck there won't be, but also another word doesn't pack for anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68921	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68922	You say a colleague, which is not true, that only one person has been convicted for war profit or conversion crime. Ivo Sanader. Others were convicted, and perhaps now it is time to mention Ivan Radosevic, who, on the basis of suspicious papers delivered by Germany, fled to Germany, received German citizenship there. Since Croatia entered the EU on the basis of a European arrest warrant, we have requested his surrender, but Germany has said it does not want to extradite it because it has aged. There are still two cases where they're looking for him. I don't know what's going to happen next. Furthermore, I must agree with you that state lawyers as well as an institution should be protected. They're doing a hard, responsible job. However, the way in which individual cases are discussed leads to the ostratisation of the job itself in order to highlight the speaker rather than address the problem. The fact is that today the state's attorney who came here before us to present a report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office and State's Attorney's Office in the Republic of Croatia is pompously providing a specific one object to the insight as if he were a delivery service. I think all of us who have knowledge and where we citizens turn to us where we don't have the strength to turn to ourselves, we have to do it ourselves without a pump, without a reflector, then it's really a concern for society free of corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68923	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68924	I agree not to the judges who judge but precisely the DORH who submits criminal charges for one of the most difficult, most ungrateful, most unpleasant jobs in this country and that I would also be glad to see what is simply with this case Radosevic, why the European arrest warrant does not apply to the institute of reciprocity between the Federal Republic of Germany and the Republic of Germany, why in one case the statute of limitations applies, why in the other case the statute of limitations does not apply. Although we understand each other in a manner consistent with the intensities of the constitution, I believe that the most severe crimes should not be depreciated in any way. That goes for Radosevic, too, which applies to any other of us if we did the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68925	Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68926	Thank you very much, colleague Cain. You were talking about filing criminal charges. I think that there is a justification for submission in Croatia but there is also an irresponsibility to file criminal charges. No one can be comfortable with having a criminal record no matter how unfounded she is and I don't know if anyone was responsible for filing false criminal charges, and I think anonymous criminal charges, I don't think I know, but they should answer. Anonymous criminal charges should end up in the trash, and there are so many irregularities and should be very careful in this business, the DORH I think is doing the hardest and most responsible job in the Republic of Croatia. But in conditions where, for example, among employers, some lifestyles have become unpaid and deceived. So there really needs a huge engagement because imagine it, build a building, raise a loan, here in Osijek, colleague Salapic, now I think about it, sell apartments, owners sell apartments, he takes, owners pay apartments, the owner takes his own money, doesn't return the loan to the bank, so the banks become owners of paid apartments. And there are thousands of cases like that. And that's how it goes again. Let's remember the coupon privatisation that was done. The State's Attorney's Office and the work of the State's Attorney's Office has an impact on economic activity. We're in crisis because of these one and irresponsible criminal charges because people are in fear, they're not doing anything, they're afraid to sign a contract, they're afraid to do anything. They're stiff and justifiably stiff. The DORH also influences the distribution of incomes because if there is talk of Pajar agencies in Istria, so I mentioned just before that only one such agency in four years has made a billion kuna, it cannot without irregularities and zero employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68927	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68928	Privateization took over half of Istria, never again, never again in my life have I filed any charges against anyone or think. But I also absolutely agree with your thesis on these anonymous reports. Because some have literally started to play games and then they're just playing with the fates of those to whom these anonymous applications and relationships apply. I'm glad you brought it up before and foregone settlements. There's not one gray zone, there's just become a black zone, the believer is looking for something, now the debtor finds more or less, and then he simply bypasses laws, business customs, morals, and what's most important economic flows, destroys simply those small, poor business entities who can't or don't know how simply to free themselves from these big and powerful simple and not in one case. For a few I know individuals began to raise their hands to themselves, literally it's true. For the little ones, no big mixers, our society just comes apart here, survives, survives at this point only those who work with the state, with local self-government, with communal services, with government services, everything else is somewhere in front of bankruptcy. It's not that there's no money, there's money, but how to get that money at ten or I don't know how much. And that's why I think we still need to strengthen the position of the DORH and right where the DORH is closest to those problems and these are municipal or county bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68929	Honorable representative Mirela Holy replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68930	Dear colleague Cain, I will refer in my replica to your part of the exhibition that concerns the relatively recent affairs with Dr Babic and his incarceration in handcuffs and under a rather strong police escort. I think it's a very interesting political context of this case because it needs to be kept in mind according to information that can be heard that potentially this crime was committed a long time ago some 15, 17 years ago and it's a pretty high time period for any action on any subject. Another sign of the information related to this is that the whole case was opened by Nikica Gabric, who informed the party a few days ago and that it all happened three days before the party's founding assembly itself and should be kept in mind that the tails are still being drawn, that there are no resolved matters related to the doctor's strike. So, I think that's in favor of the fact that DORH and the Attorney General are very often acting more like a politician who cares more about the political context of certain cases than he acts as a state lawyer, and that's not good. So, it is absolutely not a dispute that everything needs to be explored and to determine the facts, but I am very concerned about the very common ex-post mind of the DORH because it is not only seen in the Babic case, nor in the case of the Salonites that I mentioned in the previous replica, but in a whole series of other different affairs and cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68931	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68932	I'll say it one more time, Mrs. Mirela Holly. Depack, yes, we're talking about one fake, one fake disability, as many of them as there are in the Republic, which I think the DORH itself is simply gone. I won't talk about the political context regarding Mr Babic's arrest, but I agree, there should be no need in these cases, although the legislator requires it to lead anyone in handcuffs, and worse still, be careful to publicly exploit these arrests. That may be the worst, and it should be particularly careful here because, in this procedure, I don't think the prosecution proposal is even filed, some kind of investigation has to be brought in normally, which will ultimately remain to be seen. I would hate for what happened to Mr. Babic in this case to happen to what happened to Mr. Roncevic for ten years, who has been sitting here for four years in this assembly with us, and before that, also led by an important state resort.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68933	Thank you very much. A new replica, a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68934	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Caine, here I appeal again that we do not enter into debates in individual cases. On that again, the fact that you mentioned war profit, one condemning verdict, or two cases, and when we get into it, we're always in trouble to skip some others, so we're making incorrect facts. So, here, I'm asking nicely to try to give up this kind of debate. However, something else was particularly interesting to me. You, when you were talking about the drug crime problem in Istria, you said literally that drugs can be obtained, in fact they come at the speed of lightning, faster than pizza, that this way they are delivered and that they can get those two for one or one for two, quite anyway. But before you mentioned it, but even now in the replica, God forbid you never reported anyone. If you have reliable information about what you're talking about, then you need to know specific cases and you had to do it as a citizen, not as a politician.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68935	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68936	Yeah, there's drugs in Istria not on shovels, but on wagons, to make amends. And once again, I'm going to say, just one association of 350 kilos of syringes, a drug syringe collected in a year. We have far the biggest problem in the Republic of Croatia, I associate it with these various festivals of electronic music, and indeed, they happen to share drugs in action. You buy a gram, I don't know, you get two. Do, I've never seen it in my life. Who am I going to report to? I can only talk about it, and those who read, can also act, as recently did the director of the Istrian Police Administration when police at one such festival seemed to have controlled or searched 200 people, with 130 found these packages. In another case, I don't know, searched the same 200, found 120 of them, in Rovinj the same situation, in Buzet the same and similar. We have a serious problem and I'm really appealing to the Central Authority, so help me when it comes to that, Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68937	Thank you very much. A new replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68938	Thank you very much. My fellow Caine, I don't know which times I appeal and beg that you don't speak of the citizens of Istria in such a general way. It turns out from your exposure that everyone in Istria deals only with crime, apparently after a new one, everyone resells and buys drugs, and in Istria is a intertwined network in which all citizens participate. That's not true. When you talk about 500 kilos of syringes, it happens somewhere like something, it turns out every household has one. You're talking about FIMA Media, that a little baby is according to what's in Istria today in the PR area. You're talking about the Istrian mayor as a red hat compared to the Sisak-Moslavina County. You speak, you speak, only you don't know what you say sometimes. So for you, Istria is such an area, and then in the end, one different item. If someone cuts off such a county intertwined with crime, let one hand dry. It's a demagogy, Mr. Cain, and stop talking about Istria and the citizens that way. If you are or are aware of a particular case or several of them, you are required as a parliamentary representative to report it. I don't know if you've reported any criminal acts so far, it doesn't seem like one responsible politician, no matter what good it is sometimes to leave an impression in this House because it's not this country, nor Istria, or the whole swamp society where we're all equal. There are individuals with special responsibilities and you know exactly who in this system is raising criminal charges, who is persecuting and who is judging, and you are in this segment obliged to report. And don't talk about the Istraans or the Istrians and Istria in that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68939	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68940	You can take everything from me, but you can't argue to me that if anyone, someone loves that space and those people, then it's me. And if someone's masculine, hard, bloody, up-to-date, making money for themselves, for their families, then they're just Istrians, even though I don't dispute anyone else that they're also coming to work. But I'll do it again, we have a problem, Mr. Fighter, with drugs, and we all have to imagine it because generations and generations end up as they end. Today it's one problem, tomorrow it's me or someone on the fifth, not me personally, maybe some of mine. Although I have never simply seen it in my life and do not constantly plant it, do not misquote me. Where did you get this right? Aren't you a member of a criminal organization? Well, we can just talk like that. What's that? I have never taken part in this, as I believe Mr. Boric is not involved in it either. But I think he just went too far every time. What should I be ashamed of? Is that I'm ashamed? Why would he be ashamed of that? ... Is this not a debate on the 2012 report of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia? So I didn't write or report to anyone, and I didn't file on my initiative. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] And enough of your constant simple imputation to me anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68941	Dear fellow Cain, speak to the public, not to your colleagues in the assembly benches. You're not here to attack them or defend them, and for what you've been told, you have a warning. This is fortunate for you only to me given a discretionary assessment. Please, nice. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68942	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, you warned Agent Cain, but Agent Cain called the party by an inappropriate name and therefore called and therefore had to receive a warning. The other thing is, this is the way my colleague Caina's discussion simply puts a mark on this entire Parliament because if all this is true what he said belonged to some similar organization as he called one party.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68943	I understand your reaction, but it's unsustainable from the position of the Rules of Procedure's injury. No, so I understand your reaction, but there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. He got the notice for a reason. The next replica, Mr. Representative Josip Boric, injured the Rules of Procedure. Who and what?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68944	Article 238, for a colleague, Cain, in his discussions not only now, but also often comes out of the allowed frameworks and insults other MPs. He told us about HDZ. For us here that we are members of a criminal organization. ... For all the IDS he's been in for 20 years, it's a mob organization. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] He calls us, he doesn't have the right to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68945	It's not helping fellow citizens to let Boric go, it's not helping the citizens. For his said qualification, he received a warning. And don't insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure anymore because we've solved it. No inviting what was said in the Croatian Parliament last year, no. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68946	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow Caine in a list of crimes that happened to you in Istria, you said mostly that it was the people who live there, when it comes to privatization, the sale of forests, land, etc., you said that crime had support on the ground in some way. But the crime that took place elsewhere also depended on decisions taken in state institutions or institutions that were directly under the control of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'll remind you of a case that's never been really enlightened to the end, and that's a matter of privatization of the Excelsior Hotel. He was sold by an institution called DAB, which he mentioned earlier by counterpart Maric. She sold it for 600,000 marks. The tender came from a businessman who said that the 32 million-mark replacement guarantee would bring a guarantee from JP Morgan to one of the strongest financial institutions in the UK. In the end, however, he did not bring the replacement guarantee and it was past the deadline and he brought a guarantee from Hypo Bank. And what did he give as collateral for that Hypo Bank guarantee? According to my information, he's given shares of a hotel he hasn't bought yet. It's never enlightened. So it is about the need to shed light on what counterpart Maric said just before, the action of the DAB, privatisation, it is also still subject to investigations. And the other thing, drugs, of course, is a big monster and I agree with you that absolutely what we see today is just the tip of an ice dream that ruins society as a whole. Drugs when they enter the family ruin the whole family. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68947	Thank you, dear colleague Matušić. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68948	Yes, you mention the Excelsior Jelda case, it's not war profit, but it happened in 2001. And indeed someone for 600 thousand kunas in the hotel's stock got a loan I don't know the Hypo Bank and under these conditions you and I would probably also take over a hotel type Excelsior. It's not just something that happened in Dubrovnik, it's a recipe that's probably happened everywhere in the Republic of Croatia, and I think the biggest problem is just buying privatisation before he said it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68949	Attorney General Mladen Bajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68950	Gentlemen, I have no idea how to comment on your value courts, but just a few facts that are more relevant numbers again, of course, because they are the only ones I can talk about that can question your thinking in another way. For example, the application of the Law on the Depreciation of War Profits in the last years of 25 cases has been processed, against 45 persons, 8 judgments have been passed and another subject is in the renewal of proceedings. So much different data than the ones you have on or because you haven't seen them in the media or because you may not have opened our page on which it has been explicitly written for a long time. Equally compared to these objects that you mention here, thinking nothing was done on them. That's not true. In the war crimes case mentioned by Mr. Maric, 17 people are in the investigation, 10 were convicted. In Adriatic matters, in a broader sense, the words 3 are the charges before the competent courts. It's the same for the Salonite. I allow that we've changed our mind, but a smart man changes his mind if there's new facts and knowledge. For now, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68951	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68952	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Chief State Attorney, colleagues and fellow MPs. I am a little sorry that the main state attorney of your 2012 report before the Croatian Parliament, in front of the highest body on whose opinion, the support of your report and your choice depends and the future of work, let's say, the State's Attorney's Office, because it is not a matter of who is headed by the attorney's office, how much effort and strength it personally invests with its team in the most important issue, and this is the protection of the vital interests of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the persecution of the perpetrators of criminal offences that have injured the positive legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia by their illegal actions. So, in order for man to be able to constructively discuss today, he should be back two years back in 2012. I personally advocate that we are dealing with the future of Croatia, the future of a country that has become a member of the EU and with real, vital problems, which are economic problems, leaving the crisis and a better life for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That should be a bigger problem for politicians and politicians. Unfortunately, your choice depends on politics and politicians and the majority in the Croatian Parliament. That's why we should all strive to come up with a construction that the main state's attorney's choice will be independent. Whether it'll be the State's Attorney's Council or some other way of choosing. We personally believe that politics and politics in the State's Attorney's Office will not protect vital national interests, because you will have that system that the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia has recently become a jukebox where anyone can insert what they want, whoever they want, and especially during any of the elections in Croatia, you have a flood to report anonymous, anonymous, and you are expected to act in a way that the person suspected of possibly committing a crime is guilty, that the matter is pictured by the public through the media to be convicted. Thus, such actions and methods of work question the overall credibility of the Republic of Croatia, and above all the independence of the Croatian judiciary in what we all drill and what we all say is one of the basic elements, the basis of the functioning of the rule of law. In our view, it is absolutely not good and it is a collective, general chaos created in the heads of Croatia and Croatian politics and as such leads to the fact that, unfortunately, the Croatian State's Attorney General's Office because of its scope, too much work has become the focus of the Croatian public not only of this policy, but of the media and each other. It is not good for Croatia's future, because it is unfortunate that you have so much to do and that you are so engaged in heavy corruption and that this society and our country are based on war, the Homeland War and the creation of independence have fallen into the deep sphere of corruption and that general government and policy management has become a dishonest business. It is not your fault, it is the politics and people who led the Croatian state in a way that no one has authorized them and thus damaged their country, has given way to our international reputation, to ourselves and to politics as such. I repeat your choice and the assessment of your work is good to present itself to the Croatian Parliament, but that you depend on politics to choose you is not good. And finally, until this changes in the minds of Croatian politics and the media doesn't lead to anything. If you are expected to be up-to-date, maintain the stability of the Croatian judiciary and protect the country's vital interests, then no one can expect you to be arrested, arrested, sentenced and put in jail within 24 hours. This is the way justice and justice have worked, and no one has fought in this country and there is no need to fight. That is why there are courts and this entire chain of conduct that needs to be independent and, of course, we should advocate that whoever committed the crime, the crime, and thus injured our country's interest should be condemned because such is the place in prison. But we are also witnessing that large, pompous proceedings announced as protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia are in courts for various reasons of evidence, witnesses and, in general, that proceedings being conducted in court are ultimately released. So, not entering the independence of the judiciary what was created at the beginning, and that is the picture of the guilt, the picture that someone is in advance guilty of what he did or didn't commit. We are due to the overall depression and chaos in which we live and pessimism for which we are guilty of politics, not the State's Attorney's office being brought to the conclusion that the whole of Croatia has become a collective courtroom, that the State's Attorney's Office has become a jukebox for sending applications, that there is only one reason, and that is because we are living badly, that we are economically in a major problem, which we cannot get away with, and unfortunately, this government has failed to implement what it has announced in two years, which is the country's economic recovery and the better life of our people in terms of EU membership. It's not responsible for you as a person and your portfolio running the State's Attorney's Office. So what you are expected to do is follow the Constitution, according to the laws on which the work of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia is based. And it's hard to go back to 2012, because I believe that by your actions and work you solved some of the problems that have arisen in this 2012 report. What we as a society need to ensure if we expect independence and efficiency from you in acting is that, above all, the independence of the State's Attorney's office from politics should in any case be limited to the task of each government and the majority and the opposition away from politics. You are expected to ensure that the protection of the interest of the Republic of Croatia will lead to the fact that those who have violated the positive laws of Croatia are found where they belong. But none of you expect to be tried in advance and to be any part of any election campaign, any party or any political majority. So I repeat once again, you need to be completely separated from it. As for the quality of your work, it depends on the independence and expertise of the people in the State's Attorney's Office. And once again, I stress what has been repeated in this House of Commons, which is that the professionalism and expertise of your team working in the State Attorney's Office should be unquestionable so that the leak of information and the large media pump on which the Croatian Parliament has made several times the conclusions should depend on each way and on its influence, but also on the laws that we have passed, prevent that something that should not come to the media before the initiation of the procedure which directly affects the independence of the judiciary and what is the task of the three pillars of the state government, which is that those who conduct the proceedings in the courts should punish only those and indeed those who have committed crimes and violated the law of the Republic of Croatia. Everything else is politics and everything else is not the will of what Parliament would do, and you as an independent body should do. So, support in the part where you need to be provided with financial resources. That's where the report said it was approved for 2012. 313 million, a little bit more, and 391 million was spent. The effectiveness of carrying out investigations especially in the case of art, hard-to-prove procedures, large cases. In addition to expecting expertise from people who work there, independence, separation from politics, independence and separation from the media, we expect that, and should be so, that the Croatian state allows you enough financial resources to protect the interests of Croatia on the items you work on, and you have, above all, enough financial resources. Although we are aware that the economic crisis is huge and that we can hardly get away with this way of leading the government and politics if we are to punish those who have put their work at risk the foundations of stability of the state budget, then you should be able to do so. If you are only expected to put someone in jail without having previously carried out a procedure that is in accordance with the laws of Croatia, then we have done nothing again. So what you pointed out is that you lack financial resources that should be made possible. The education of your officials and officials should also be at the highest level, and all those laws that we have passed through the 2010 amendments to the Constitution, through the State's Attorney's Council, through the Judicial Academy and through everything that officials and officials working in the State's Attorney's Office should be led as the thought of guidance and guidelines of work, which is that without education and improvement of the conditions and of our membership in the EU, accepting European acquis but also increasingly complicated and increasingly difficult cases, which is that crime has become sophisticated, modern and difficult to grasp. Without proof, there's no convictions, no matter how much the media public has against anyone. No, I say once again, we're not protecting anyone, but we're asking that there be complete independence in this section. This depends on the stability of the state, as well as Croatia's future as young EU members. You also posted in your report that the work of the State's Attorney's Office in general was compared to last year, given the frequent changes in the laws under which you must act to maintain that stability of the attorney's office's work in 2012. In fact, a frequent change of law can be good in one hand, if we are to modernise the process and make investigations faster, the punishment of potential perpetrators in that part of the process faster, however, too often changing and harmonizing with some political will is not good and we need to be very careful there. Once and for all, it is necessary to adopt laws on criminal proceedings, in general the laws on which the work of the State's Attorney's Office is based and based, such that instruments of legal action as well as legal protection of persons in the process will be at the highest values of the legal order of Croatia. Then we're on our way. All of this, all of this that's going to lead to day-to-day policy reasons and purposes, so we don't think that's good. You are expected to have maximum efficiency and, as such, your report in that section concerning statistics and ways of comparison with 2011 is understood as what is the obligation of the State's Attorney's Office, and here you have shown both the real and the real problems facing the State's Attorney's Office. Once again, the public of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament will remind me of our club's proposal, this has nothing to do with you personally, Mr. Chief Attorney General, having to do with the independence and future of the work of the State's Attorney General. I believe that personally I would never be in your place because if you're doing something wrong, if you're not doing something wrong, and if you don't judge someone wrong, if you don't think what the political majority in Parliament thinks is wrong again, so your job by me is the most ungrateful job in the country. That is why we have proposed that the mandate of the attorney general be limited to two consecutive mandates, and that the attorney general be appointed Deputy Attorney General afterwards. Because this pressure, primarily of politics and the public on you personally, and too much expectations on the scale instead of expecting the government to be effective in implementing better lives for our citizens, you are expected to punish as many people as possible, to put them in jail if they are guilty and if they have committed crimes, and no one sees that real life does not depend on who commits the crime or not, depending on whether the government has won most of the elections is successful, whether the Croatian economy is such that it allows new jobs, and not that every day the number of unemployed increases to 380 thousand and don't give God and more. So this rate of committing crimes because of bad life, because of general depression and pessimism, leads to the fact that the increase in crime that your job unfortunately becomes the most important in the country. We should strive for Croatia to be Croatian citizens, Croatian peoples and a country where employment will grow, rather than a country that will depend on whether you in your term or in the year following this report have captured as many perpetrators of criminal offences as any policy that God does not give you depends on your choice. Once again and again, we support that your choice, not personally but in the future work of the State's Attorney's Office, should be limited to two mandates to remove this burden from the person who is headed to allow for further functioning and work within the State's Attorney's office, that the future of the Republic and the country as a whole depends on the quality laws which will be the basis of your work in the State's Attorney's Office and what is most important protection of the vital interests of the Republic and that, after all this suffering in the jukebox of the state's attorneyship, you are expected to act in every election and in front of each election that you must punish someone simply because someone doesn't like them personally and that you must act as your own policy then is not the one that we all fought for but something else entirely. We want a European Croatia and Croatia in which everyone will be free if they have not committed a crime and we want a country that will be economically completed and in which those who live for tomorrow and those young people who are not burdened with Ustashas or partisans or Chetniks or any other power can live freely and peacefully in the country for the improvement of all of us. In this work you have the support that your independence is required and we also expect support from the Croatian Parliament to finally remove politics and politics once and for all from the Croatian State's Attorney's Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68953	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68954	For including your discussion, you also say that the goal of each of these activities is to keep the average Canadian alive peacefully. However, through the nearer past, we had situations that thieves lived peacefully and an honest man lived restlessly. Of course, that has changed, and for years it has changed, of course, quite difficult. You have particularly apostrophe that it is regrettable how much the state's attorneyship has to do and how the public pressures it to have an ungrateful role of it all, because it is such nature and work and what is surely true, which is that the whole of Croatia has turned into one collective courtroom. Although every man, every single one of us here, no one would want to judge the street, the state's attorney's office to file a report because one of these or one of us has created some kind of tension, and there's one task of the state's attorney's office that's very delicate. But that is not something to be considered, but what you say about the law and the Constitution. However, I think you reacted well when you just gave not one accent to it, indicating that the policy should not still be chosen by the State's Attorney General. However, you also agreed that the policy of removing your hand stems from your entire speech from the state's attorney's office as an independent body. But what is now facing the state's attorney's office? And we have to react here to that, defending it from every attack so it can carry out its constitutional and legal task. You also have a situation that the court, some, won't tell everyone, but from the judiciary some judges are attacking the state's attorney's office why they filed a complaint in one case and why not? What other justice system is there in? We must therefore recognize the attacks on the independence of the judiciary in a narrow and in a broader sense than anyone else did, even when it was internal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68955	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68956	Thank you very much, colleague. I think we understand each other very well. I wanted to stress exactly that, on the independence of the main state attorney's office and the attorney's office as a whole because if indeed the policy is too involved in this and I think lately it's, just one example specifically on our party. We, when we started constitutional changes, wanted to reach a consensus on the need not to obsess over the crimes of heavy killings as an opposition party sat down with the ruling parties to discuss the problem and see what else matters when it comes to national interests. We have advocated a territorial structure different than it is today, for a referendum etc., it is now the topic of constitutional change, but as soon as we sat down to talk, it was immediately left to the party, to HDSSB that we were trading under quotes in order to prevent possible actions of the state's attorneyship and USKOK in Osijek. So, which would be a poor country and state if someone like the supermarket could say I'll vote for it if you stop it. And that's that cancer of the Croatian judiciary and politics as a whole. So as soon as you're constructive, then you're stupid, as soon as you suggest something, then you're no good, when you shut up, no one asks you anything, no one respects you. When you want to say something good for Croatia, then he says they must trade with the chief state attorney to prevent a certain one then all of us and all of those working on it should be removed if possible in Croatia. The real emphasis is that we should finally remove it and that no one can expect someone to be convicted in a short time. That's where I wasn't protecting anyone, absolutely, but wanted to give an accent. Let's let the independent judiciary do its job. We would have neither Perkovic nor the issue of the Law on Judicial Cooperation, nor the debate on the decisions of the court in Velika Gorica and Zagreb if we had let the justice policy or the judiciary do its job independently and everything else is bad primarily for Croatia's future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68957	Goran Maric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68958	Thank you very much. Comrade Salapic, you spoke about the importance of the work of the state's attorney's office, I would only refer to the part that is extremely important and of an important impact on economic activity in the Republic of Croatia. It is also important for investment activity, the efficiency of the work of the state's attorney's office is also important for the economic strength of the entire country. It also affects personneling because imagine how many were held responsible and should not have been there, just how many respected managers are no longer respected after the work of the State's Attorney's Office. But the most important thing to say is that Croatia still cannot survive the one involved in economic activity and respects laws and ethical business, ethical norms. If it is permitted to act on those who do not respect the law, then it is impossible for those who respect it. If 50 billion kuna is unpaid debt to the state and is allowed to continue to operate then it allows those who paid all taxes, who paid regular salaries, they are in an unequal position, destroying them and resting on them the future of Croatia not on those who did not pay taxes and they find it most difficult to see this injustice. Just imagine a pre-fashion deal. Someone didn't charge $2.3 million, they had to pay the profit tax and register it as income and a pre-profit deal comes in, they even have to pay the profit tax fee next year on the basis of the income they didn't collect and the creditor says I won't even pay you. It can't be the future of the Croatian economy, so it's important to make it impossible for those who don't comply with the law to get kicked out of the business cycle, to ban them from working. Penalty is non-payment of wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68959	Thank you. Answer. Thank you very much. Replication response, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68960	Exactly, colleague Maric. We have passed a number of laws, and this Act on Pre-war settlement has been passed in order to help the businessmen who have found themselves in trouble without having to go bankrupt, to bridge it. What is actually a real problem, which is reported by the European Commission, which is that corruption is like early Croatian society cancer and hence that fear in economic waters and entrepreneurship because everyone is afraid, and they are afraid that policy years ago or years ago when certain politicians have been in power, they have interfered with their corrupt actions in the economy, so some businessmen have in one way or another engaged in corrupt activities and thus contributed to the diseases of our society, it is corruption. Because it is a sad country in which the economy depends on the fear of the State's Attorney's office and on how the State's Attorney's office will act. The healthy society should depend on free entrepreneurship, on a healthy climate for investment, not on our serious economic partners running from Croatia because we are being led as a highly corrupt country. The Russian Commission says that we have done a lot in processing corruption, but we have not done much to prevent it. If we also have bodies in the Parliament, which is the National Committee on Combating Corruption, they have all the State Departments of Anti-Corruption Programmes, or Anti-Corruption Programmes, if it will remain on blah blah blah blah blah, and no one in particular will do anything, then we have a serious problem, a serious and serious disease that will rarely be able to solve politics. Until it is rooted out of society, which is that someone has to give someone something, bribe them to work in Croatia, we will not get away with it. It depends not only on the quality of the law passed by the Croatian Parliament, but also on the people who need to implement these laws in the area of both the state sector and the private sector, to eradicate this disease from society. If that doesn't work, we're long-term done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68961	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68962	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Salapić, you have rightly, saying most of your debate about, how I have experienced this about the atmosphere in which the State's Attorney's Office is working, in some ways lighted up the aspect where more or less everyone is unhappy and looking for faster, stronger, more effective, better, right away, whenever an affair appears in public, and on the other hand, when possibly some indictment falls in court, then again everyone is very, very unhappy. I don't think there's much anyone who takes care of a few facts. Let's just say it's about wartime military people, fake so-called. Wartime military people with disabilities. Of course, the procedure, I won't talk about individual examples, can't run unless there's valid evidence that someone has misused the law and that someone has misused other laws if he used rights he didn't have the right to. So it seems to me sometimes that in the work of a repressive apparatus we all understand as we understand ourselves in assembling a team. But why am I saying that? But when it comes to what needs to be called public, social condemnation, that's where we all fall, and that's what I've talked about here many times. So the last local elections also showed about some affairs, people who had affairs written about, talked about, reported, etc. They were elected, they were elected, the people charged were elected, the people they were tried for, and that's the closed circle. We need to talk more about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68963	Replication response, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68964	Thank you, Vice President. So don't blame me, but I'll say something, I think you felt what it means to give, in the place where you were prime minister, total freedom and independence to the part where you were conducting investigations and the work of the State's Attorney's office and the general judiciary in general, some of them commented on it as well as what she's doing? And that was a lot to say about it, and I think you were on the right track. Then in 2009, in 2010, we said that no object should be held in the drawer. So the time when something will come out publicly, unfortunately, I think it is not, and it shouldn't be, should not be a time when someone expects it, but a time when it is necessary for evidence and evidence. If society were healthy as a whole, no one would be normal about it, but it's not. What I said, a pessimism that has been created and Croatia has become a collective judge, let's go people, hold thieves, let's go, whatever they do, has to do with any policy, so in the debate I advocated that the choice, some future choice by the attorney general, does not depend on any policy. Because it's not just normal and it's not healthy. Everyone's gonna say, I have evidence or a report that he and that guy at that time did it and that. If you don't convict him, you didn't do anything. Then what do we need the courts for? What do we need an independent judiciary for? Why do we need everything we've done in Chapter 23 by taking over the EU acquis? What do we need the State's Attorney's Council for? What do we need the State Judgment Council for? If you know by yourself who has to be put in jail. And that's the condition of Croatian politics. Today we can spread the debate from here to eternity. We're already being considered collectively insane by the public because we're back in the past with our discussions. We really don't live for tomorrow, if someone does, says they're stupid, and in fact the real thing should be protecting vital interests in the economy and looking for a job for our children, and this should be dealt with by independent judicial bodies. Well, that's the way to go, but unfortunately that's not how it works with us yet. It is the cancer of the early Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68965	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS, a colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68966	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Attorney General. Well, here I think I'd like to start by saying that I'm sure this debate would be more focused on the report, on the data from the reports, however many talk with contempt about the report itself, that we discussed it on time, so we discussed it by the end of last year 2013. We are now discussing 2012 in 2014. In fact, we should be discussing the 2013 report soon and that is what it is. So this debate has been more political so far because this is, of course, the political body, the most representative body in which we can express our political courts above all, but I think we should go back to what the report really says because these figures can draw conclusions that will be important or important for the legislative body and therefore for the Croatian Parliament in our future decisions, in making amendments and supplementing the law. And I concentrated on it when I read the State's Attorney General's report. This debate somehow seems to be falling at a bad time because we are at the end, or because the mandate of the attorney general is at the end. I suppose Mr. Bajic will inform us about it whether, as it was in 2010, he addressed the government which is of course an obligation under the law because it is the government that initiates the procedure for the appointment of the chief state attorney. So that's how it was in 2010. So it's going to be 2014. I will remind some of this may already be a little annoying when I return at the time of the negotiations to join the EU, but still, in 2010 we amended the Constitution and, among other things, further strengthened the independence of the state's attorney or the state's attorney. This was our joint agreement not only because we had to do it to complete the negotiations but all the most important actors on the political scene felt it was important and that it was good. That empowerment is my belief in fruit. And I'm going to say here to answer something that's a lot to talk about when it comes to pressures on the State's Attorney's Office on political pressures or politicians on the State's Attorney's Office. In my term as Prime Minister, I have not seen the pressures and we as a government have not in any way tried to influence but we have tried to expand this legislative and political space for independent work not only of the State's Attorney's Office, USKOK, but also of the police. I could talk about it for a long time, about individual cases that speak absolutely in favor of it. And I think that if you all turn around together for 2011 so the last year of that government's term of office that I've been running, then you'll see that, in no way, because of what's been going on, you couldn't talk to each other and couldn't talk about the impact of politics on the work of the State's Attorney's office. Of course, all those actors in the political life that the State's Attorney's Office is touching in its work and are launching investigations which are understandable, feel threatened. That's how I want it to be now. At times when Parliament will decide on a new mandate to take care of what has been done and what is important for the state as a whole, whether it pleases or not. And that's why I'm going to make concrete allegations from this report. First of all, finance, so the funds provided for the work of the State's Attorney's Office in that year, where it is clearly indicated, and I said that this must lead us to draw conclusions from this report that will guide us when we pass laws and when we adopt a state budget. Thus, there is a clear indication of insufficient resources often due to the fact that material expenditure, the payment of witches and other important intellectual services without which the State's Attorney's Office or USKOK cannot be an important item and that this should be taken into account because the budget for all and then for the State's Attorney's Office should be adopted in the Croatian Assembly. There is also talk of a 10% less report, so when it comes to the movement of crime and the amendment to the Penal Code that took place in the meantime is cited. I'm going to find it very interesting to hear the final analysis which caused it to fall. Is it really a change in the KZ, decriminalization of certain crimes, or is it still something else? So this report shouldn't just be locked up when this debate is over but analyzed further. I was particularly intrigued by a chapter on war crimes. So in 2012, there were 20 new applications. We are often inclined to say that there is no processing of war crimes, so I would ask the chief state attorney perhaps in some address to inform us of the total number of prosecuted and convicted persons for war crimes, so overall from the beginning of the aggression on Croatia to today. For me, this is an interesting fact that there were 20 new applications, that nine applications remained from the previous year, and that in the year that we are discussing today, nine people have been charged with war crimes. What is just as little to talk about in public about is what is being warned in this report that, of course, it is more logical to collect data on criminal acts, and it is even harder to collect data on the perpetrators. This must direct us to strengthen the state's attorney's office to concentrate as much as possible on the work, because over the years, that every year will be harder and harder as time passes, as unfortunately many die. Both perpetrators and witnesses will be very, very difficult especially when we talk about crimes of rape during the Homeland War. So, more power is needed, and I would say even more decisively in that sense, but I believe that Mr. Chief Attorney will also inform us about specific data. Somehow, the impression remains, the question is why. Is it because it always somehow draws attention to the public because we are more involved in bribery, corruption, criminals and that this segment in the work of the State's Attorney's Office somehow disappears from the centre of our attention. As for the crimes of economic crime here, it is said that there is a significant increase in the application for bribery and that other acts are in decline. So it's something that we as a companion and colleague should be worried about. Here's the data. I think you're reading that data well because there's a part of society behind it, part of the state's attorney's office. So, in 2011 crimes, reported 101, and in 2012 170 acts of bribery. However, the number of crimes of abuse of position has declined. So in 2012, the 11th Forgiveness was 890 and in 2012. 517. Since we have also amended the provisions of the Constitution and passed the law in 2010 as well as in the Constitution, that is to say, by amending the provisions of the Constitution and by law, we have passed after and after the law, but have incorporated into the Constitution the non-aging of war profit and non-depreciation of criminal acts from the process of conversion and privatisation. It is good to look at this part of the report that says that the State's Attorney General, I suppose, has ordered all documents from that time to be kept. I'd be interested to know if any documents from that time of conversion and privatisation have disappeared, but it's a good thing it's been issued I'd say almost an order to keep it safe. And now, of course, we expect both the results and the changes to the Constitution, but also the results of the new law. Why? Because now the current installation in the Constitution of non-depreciation of murder for serious crimes where we have said so many times, and when we put on the scale the murder of a man and on the other hand stealing, the thieving in the privatization then, of course, this first weighs. So it'll be a good experience in, therefore, experience after we've removed the statute of war profit and crime, the crimes of conversion and privatisation, and see what effect it is to see what we can possibly expect if we really change the Constitution and introduce an indemnity to the most difficult murders. As far as BOOK is concerned, a lot of interesting data. So USKOK received 1226 criminal charges or 3.55% higher. So the increase is almost 4%. It is said here that a slight increase in reports of organised crime and corruption does not reflect the real situation. It is said here that they are created using new opportunities that the state's attorney has under the Criminal Procedure Act, which will be significantly reduced according to the current course of work on amendments to the law, means the CAP. Meanwhile, the CAP has changed, so I would like to ask the chief state attorney to brief us on the current situation. Of course, since we are discussing the 2012 report, we cannot escape from the current moment in 2014. This also discusses an increase in the number of corruption applications. When you look at the table on corruption crimes in a narrow sense, then you see that to receive bribes is almost 60%, giving bribes is 35%, receiving bribes in economic business is 10.4%. So something that we must be concerned about because despite the fact that we are sending such messages from politics that it is inadmissible, that we must all condemn it, as you can see, this wave is not really eroding. When you look at a part of the report that speaks of freezing and confiscation of property benefits, these are significant assets, and then, in the future, you could draw significant sources of revenue from the state budget. In the end, here are a few other indications that this debate can be fueled by, because a lot of things have actually been spoken about directly or indirectly so far. In order for the State Attorney's Office to be even more effective as we all want and always expect, of course this area of justice should also be considered by the repressive apparatus, by the judiciary as a whole and by all its segments, and I also think about the consistency of the case-law. It's something you rarely talk about. We discussed this inciting the final examples. Of course, we should talk about it because we now have cases where DORH reacted the same way, and the case law as we know it was different. I hope that no one in any way understands this wrong but only in an effort to really create a country where when we talk about investors, everyone will be sure that when they come and invest that their laws will not change, that the laws will apply those at the beginning of their arrival as well as in the end or if something is complicated and there will be known case law. So that the courts will judge the same questions in the same way. It's important to be a successful country to the end. We'll accept this report. [[Grebec intrusion: Please conclude.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68967	Thank you very much. Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68968	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your colleagues Kosor mentioned war crimes and the fact that it was very difficult to determine who was actually the perpetrator of numerous crimes in the Homeland War you spoke first of all, and it's even harder to actually determine those who committed crimes before the end of World War II and Porec, so '44. And '45. etc. One of those eclectic crimes happened on Daxie. Unfortunately, in its statement, the State Attorney's Office based on the application of the Dax Association, therefore by the basis of a family whose members were killed on that island have filed a criminal application and, unfortunately, the State's Attorney General has determined that none of the living possibly living perpetrators they could continue to prosecute are present. I simply doubt that there are no living perpetrators, given the number of those who still use pensions today as members of the People's Liberation Movement. For the numerous crimes that occurred after Bleiburg, for the numerous crimes that occurred during the war operations, so it's a war crime that never gets old, it's just amazing to think that among these people is not one of the criminals. And that is certainly true, but there is an obvious conspiracy to silence those who swear to other values today. But it seems to me it would be good to have the State's Attorney's office if anything else that then all the materials from their investigation to give to the press and to publish at least then which were the structural units of the then Partisan army that committed those crimes, at least that one part of the truth was known, that in some way the satisfaction of the victims happened through that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68969	Thank you very much. Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68970	Thank you very much. So I think you've given your debate strong support to try to really put in strength and change the Constitution and introduce the non-depreciation of the crimes of serious murders because it's certainly also about those of World War II but it's also about the crimes of the Homeland War. The slow time is passing, so we'll be able to talk very quickly about outdated crimes, so crimes related to the Homeland War. So I agree with you. Of course, I can't get into it if there's a state's attorney's office or if there's no evidence, whether there's a state's attorney's office or if there's no witnesses in the case you're talking about. It's certainly a matter of the state's attorney's office that we need to further empower about what's so far in the debate as you've seen has gone almost undetected. It's part of a war crimes report. And there's only the State's Attorney's Office in charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68971	Joseph Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68972	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs. Kosor, as far as the evidence process is concerned, is one of the forms that we put in the Constitution not to obsess over these war crimes and profit-making, the privatisation and conversion process, and the other is a quality performance of evidence. Because without proof of this procedure, there is no goal, and that is the ultimate condemnation of those who have injured the vital interests of the Republic of Croatia. I would therefore once again point out that in this part of the technical equipment of the State's attorneys and information and professional educated people to work on this is a long-term process and the state needs to provide financial resources for this. But something else asked me to answer. We are unfortunately talking about the 2012 Report today, which is a bit of a pass in view of the situation in which we live today. It's good to hear what the problem was back then, but there's nothing more effective that we can change it just letting the Parliament know. I'm sure the 2013 report will have an increase in criminal charges because we had local elections last year so it'll be an interesting 2013 report. The State's Attorney's Office was probably covered by well-intentioned anonymous reports. And then another note and a personal opinion, until the rot in political society changes nothing from any better future in Croatia. Because policy tasks, groups that support certain programmes should be a better life for citizens, the success of our country, we should all fight on the economic fronts and these are investments and new jobs. Unfortunately, we're still fishing in the woods, and we're looking for where Bosko Buha is, where someone else or someone else is third, and we're not talking about a better life for our citizens. Until that changes, we won't have an independent judiciary or a healthy society. Because a little politics, unfortunately, if we don't say anything, we'll turn out not to be doing our job, it's clear and loud policy is responsible for the independence of the Croatian judiciary. When it really does live right, when we give clean hands and get rid of those who are experts independent of any party, then our country will be in better starting positions as a new EU member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68973	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68974	Well, I said I think we should have discussed this report in the fall last year. So we arrived in August, we could discuss it in September and close the story and wait for a new report. But it's now declassified, we repeat that, but you mentioned in 2013 there were local elections and you say that the assumption would be a rush, a hill, a bunch of criminal charges against people who were candidates or were supposed to be candidates. I'm going back to that one by myself already boring when I mention it, but I'm saying how we are, how we're actually reacting differently. How often we are hypocritical when we talk about it, so on the one hand we ask that many who are referred to as here are suspected of being processed, put in prisons as you said, and on the other hand, when people go to the polls, then many who have been repeated and pressured by the media that they have abused their position, that they have taken from the budget what has not been proven but so written, so it has been said. Some were under investigation, some were even accused, some had even begun the trial and were re-elected. So we obviously have a problem. And then we turn around and say the DORH is guilty of everything. But we're you, I'm not talking about you or yourself when we go to the polls then obviously, then it doesn't bother us that someone's been written about, that someone's been talked about and whether someone's been processed, then it doesn't bother us anymore. Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68975	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68976	Dear colleague Kosor, you said in the very introduction of your debate that this is actually a political debate which I fully agree with you. Let's just say, to discuss whether the Penal Code, the new Penal Code, caused a smaller number of applications, I don't think we'd get far and not even be professional enough, I speak for myself, not on your behalf, you're a lawyer, to talk about these things. We are here to send political messages, to debate and to create a climate where the state's attorney's office will be able to work more freely, but in which the state's attorney's office will fight in itself to be independent, as far as there's no policy right to rely on the state's attorney's office to influence so much, there's no right to the state's attorney's office to rely on politics because they've often been interrelationships, so at least we get the impression. It's a very important political climate. We know that at some point there was an open cap, a ghost from the bottle released, but I thought that the spirit in the bottle could no longer be returned, but somehow it seems to me that in some segments he's coming back again. That's very important. It is not debated here to discourage someone, but to show problems and to live in a better society, the perception of the public in Croatia is very large, as they say beyond our borders, ask our citizens what they think about it. The citizens didn't make it up, and it's absolutely certain that it's not a tense situation, and just to say, they told me a text saying that the secretariat is asking for a translation of my speech for Mr. Jurjevic, so I'm going to give it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68977	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68978	Okay, I wouldn't comment on this translation. Let the secretariat do its job, as it is in all other cases. I prefer to think that when it comes to the amendments to the law that this applies to the PPP, so the Code of Criminal Procedure. This is an important mechanism and in the work of the state's attorney's office, and here we have done a great deal in this regard by all together politics and power and opposition are there to continuously expand this space and strengthen independence, political independence, so independence in the sense that politics and power, those who are in power, neither encourage investigations nor stop. So, you can't push anyone or anything, but I still think it's more important when the BOLO, the State's Attorney's Office and the police start some procedure, a policy that's in power can't push fingers and say, no, no, this doesn't, this does. So it's our job, and that's why I'm experiencing this debate in that sense, and we have to be completely honest, so when a case suits us, then we often clap when it's out of some opposite political space, and when it doesn't answer, we get very, very angry. That's the same part of that political atmosphere that you and I are talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68979	On behalf of the SDSS Club, colleague Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68980	Honored Madam Vice President, Mr. State's Attorney, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS representative club shall have the principle of application at the time of submission of this State Attorney's Office's report. We think that for the Croatian Parliament and its supervisory role it is not good that such reports come with delays such as this. Similarly, we will have in the case of Croatian Radio or HRT, and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, I would ask the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament to change this practice or to interrupt or at least to give a valid explanation because we do not have a valid explanation and we do not have any position on it. With so much delay, our debate seems largely pointless. If the state's attorney's office didn't file a report on time which wasn't the case, because it was filed in the seventh month last year, we're discussing it today at the beginning of the second month, then it should be said that the state's attorney's office didn't do it, but if we're not doing our job for some reason, then we should say it on our part. So much for the basic principle of our Parliament's work. Secondly, before I move on to some specific questions that don't take so much notice of other clubs in the House, and they're the subject of State's Attorney's report, I'd like to say two things about what I've noticed in this report, and what is seen year by year. The first is that the State Attorney's Office is constantly indicating in its reports or more or less clearly, so it finds that it lacks the necessary resources and the necessary equipment to function in a valid manner. So, we have noted years ago that the State's Attorney's Office has received donations from individual countries as if it were an NGO, so that the State's Attorney's Office can be equipped with adequate electronic equipment and adequate technologies for archiving, processing and working on cases. Now we also find that so-called. The CTS system is not sufficiently implemented and is a restriction in the functioning and operation of the State's Attorney's Office. I don't know why the Ministry of Justice, why the Government, in a Parliament that we rightly expect so much from the State's Attorney's Office, don't we expect to increase resources for the functioning of the State's Attorney's Office? I'm saying it on this example. Another example is even more drastic. If it's true, and I don't see why it wouldn't be true that U.S.C.O. deputies can't be activated and employed in a normal procedure, but they have to, by the order of the State's Attorney's office, the Deputy State's Attorney's Office to detach to functions within the USKOK, it's alarming. The report doesn't say what reason it is. Is the reason general uncertainty, is it a reason for financial uncertainty, is it a reason for work or something else? But if that's the case, then we don't need to be surprised that the number of objects that can be processed or that are coming to be processed when it comes to UskoK isn't bigger than it is. Therefore, the Club of the Independent Democratic Serb Party would extend once again to the State Attorney himself, but also to the Ministry of Justice and to the Government, as well as to us in the Assembly, to ensure greater means of modernising the equipment for the work of the State's attorney, especially electronic equipment, especially computer equipment, especially software, and of course to see what kind of personnel assumptions, which are material, financial assumptions necessary for the people in the DORH to stay or be normally recruited as they are recruited in other businesses. Now allow me to move on to a set of topics partly initiated by my colleague, Jadranka Kosor, with her presentation on behalf of her club. First, it concerns criminal offences that are being prosecuted by the State's attorneys on the basis of international contracts or international obligations or international regulations. First of all, it's war crimes. So, about this data we got, we have a few questions. The state's attorney's office says the total number of registered victims was 13 743, of which 5987 were killed, and 2267 were badly injured, 2339 tortured, 67 raped and 3086 others. Of these, 3495 criminal charges were filed, 122 criminal charges were filed against members of Croatian military or police units, the Croatian military and police, I mean the state and 3883 against members of Serb rebel units or possibly members of the Yugoslav People's Army. So 97.5%, and in the first case 2.5%. That trend has been going on for years. And in the first OSCE reports that have been made, this ratio has been retained and has not changed until today. In DORH's database, based on this data on the number of killed, wounded, tortured, raped, and others, we're said to have 490 war crimes. We don't know anything about that base, nor do we know it, but what for us, first of all, for the club I belong to, for the Independent Democratic Serb Party, the important question is whether in this number, and we don't think that all the victims are covered, all killed, all tortured, all injured and all raped and everyone else? Because we are afraid that there is still no official record of the total number of war victims in Croatia and that there is only one party to be kept records, and that there is mostly or mainly one party to indicate and this information about criminal charges, or later we will see the charges and charges. So what's extremely important to us are the crimes that were committed in Vukovar in '91. years, and which crimes are not punished to this day. For us, the issue of crimes committed in Western Slavonia is particularly important, which are not punishable to date. Crimes in the Blinj Corner are also the area of the '91s, and crimes at the time of the Flash and at the time of the Storm, of which unfortunately other than the process being conducted for Grubore are not processed or if they are prosecuted, they have been prosecuted in a way that has been avoided to punish a crime such as Varivoda, Gosici and other cases of serious war crimes after or during the War Regular Action Storm. In other words, we'd like to see Mr. State's Attorney whether all the victims are involved, whether all the perpetrators are at least potentially involved and on the other hand whether all the war crimes are registered. If they are not then, we are interested in what is needed to do to change this and because, as your report shows, there is a trend that, because of the lack of confidence in the work of our judicial authorities, people address the European Criminal Court. In 2011, there were five cases in 2012 that number crossed the two-digit number. And if this trend persists, then people can be expected to start addressing the courts outside of our country for cases of suffering members of their families. We wouldn't want that trend to continue, we don't think there's any reason, and we think that our courts can judge it, they've shown in some cases that they can, as the State's Attorney's office in some cases, have shown that they can. What we're just afraid of is manifest bias, unfortunately I have to say, with the risk of being misunderstood and the risk that I may be wrong, but I'd like to be corrected if someone sees a mistake, and at the same time I don't want it to be understood as bias because of the intention of being misunderstood. So of the 3432 defendants, even 2999 were tried, not necessarily and convicted in absentia. Of these convicted absences, 99.9% are members of the Serbian ethnicity. Of the remaining 433 people who were tried in the presence of 94 were members of Croatian military or police formations, 30 of them were convicted, so less than one prominence, and the other 339 were members of Serb units representing most of those convicted of war crimes. Mr. State Attorney, we expect the State Attorney's Office to pay even more attention to this topic and those crimes that are not being prosecuted, and those crimes that are being conducted, or those processes that are being led to be conducted in a manner that is in accordance with the law. We support investigating what happened in the Trpinja, but we cannot support people being held in prison against the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on criminal proceedings of the Republic of Croatia states that if the State Attorney's Office does not press charges after 6 months, the accused cannot be detained in custody. 9 persons of Serbian nationality suspected of a crime committed in the Trpinja which is an undisputed crime and whom we want to be prosecuted have been detained and detained for an additional 6 months. With what explanation, with what legal foothold? No press charges, no standoffs. This otherwise compromises one of the necessary actions and creates additional mistrust in the judiciary and its impartiality and its justice. Therefore, we ask that this case be considered in particular and to see how it should not be further compromised and that no mood is created which is not necessary because I think it is necessary that we all unite on how to determine both in this case and in other cases that have been committed. When we talk about crimes, it seems to me that it is particularly important to mention problems related to property issues. For years, we have been engaged in the return of property owned by citizens of Serbian nationality, which units of local self-government or state have been allocated for temporary use. We have two cases that drastically illustrate what happened. the case of Petra Kunić from the region of Karlovac and the case of Kasum from the Benkovec area. Both of them were given temporary leave to temporary users who had invested and built something in these facilities illegally, contrary to the regulation and against the law. In the case of Kasuma in Benkovec, the house was torn down to the ground and built a technical car inspection station, I will not talk about the involvement of the city of Benkovac. But what matters is that these people got millions of dollars after they got the property back they got millions of dollars for the tip after which they could just kill themselves. [[Employee: Bring your colleague to the hearing site.]] For neither does the property that they have received back mean anything to them anymore. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68981	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68982	Dear colleague Pupovac, I would refer to that only your beginning of the debate in which you spoke about the State Attorney's Office, and I also mentioned in my debate on behalf of the club, which is that the State's Attorney's Office does not have adequate computer equipment. This is certainly scandalous, and it is scandalous to take into account the fact that the Croatian government bought recently 10550 smartphones for 16 million kunas, to buy unnecessarily expensive cars that exceed and which the DORH should also investigate, although it was done by the Ministry of the Interior. It's absolutely certain that the State's Attorney's Office would act in accordance with the law and that it could at all fulfil that function of its own that it's immaterial to say that in 2014 we're saying that they don't have the equipment they're working on, that they don't have enough computers, that they don't have software. It's a sad, devastating fact for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68983	The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68984	Dear Mr Vuksic, unfortunately in several of my presentations on the State's Attorney's report, I have noticed this in the report in the last six years. I'm sure things are getting better because the State's Attorney's office no longer appears as a candidate for donations to any friendly country that's interested in promoting our state bodies. But the fact that funds are missing as clearly as the report states for the work of the State's Attorney's Office and that the planned funds are not enough for the work of the State's Attorney's Office for at least 60 million kuna, as I recall standing in the report, is worrying. And we here need to talk about it and we here need to support the State's Attorney's Office in the needs of greater resources for the work of the State's Attorney's Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68985	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68986	Thank you very much. Dear Pupovac, you mentioned it among other things and, at least that's how I realized some mistrust in the Croatian judiciary, often in courts and in the faith of some that they would be tried better and fairer elsewhere. It's the same thing that's not good. So if people think that they're not safe here in that sense, then it's not good, and we have to change that perception. But regarding war crimes, I would like to remind you that, just in chapter 23 of the negotiations and the attempts to close this chapter with everything else in this particular chapter, we had a big job and a burden on war crimes, on the processing of war crimes and at that time and a great political difficulty in the country as well as on co-operation with The Hague, because at that time there was a first-degree verdict in The Hague by our generals and indeed a great dissatisfaction among Croatian defenders and for some other cases, and yet we have successfully closed it. That is why now that we are a member of the EU and I really want to say this, and EU membership obliges us to continue to be consistent, to act as a sovereign member of the EU and that this investigation and search do not stop, of course and to process regardless of who it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68987	You need to get back to me on time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68988	Dear colleague Kosor, I am fully in agreement with you as I believe and with most MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, that on the issues of war crimes committed, but as judicial issues between us there must be no difference and that we must be committed to all crimes being punished no matter what time they were committed and no matter who the perpetrators were. I'm deliberately saying it's just because it's so far, and today there's a lot of political dimensions in the war crimes campaign, and that's actually blocking the judicial dimension. As far as this trend is concerned, people are addressing the European Court of Human Rights. In 2012, the European Court considered 5 such cases. In 2013, 19 such cases were considered by 31 applicants. This shows a trend that I think is important for this House to be informed because otherwise the European Court of Human Rights is quite overwhelmed with cases from the Republic of Croatia when rights that could not be guaranteed in judicial institutions in Croatia are protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68989	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68990	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Pupovac, you have expressed your doubts about the work of the State's Attorney's Office against equal relations with war crimes in the areas of Western Slavonia and some other parts. I've also talked to the state's attorney's reports a lot of times about how we suspect a number of these acts that haven't been completed yet, and a hundred civilians have been killed in the area of my county. Some are meant to be absent, and some have never been discovered. Some as political commissioners walk with Slatin and no one. Equally on Butch where there was a camp in Western Slavonia nothing. There is a political commissioner, an organizer of rebellion, a knowledge of all facts. I'd also have a lot to say. We can see that there's not enough capacity in the State's Attorney's Office, that there may not be enough money for the State's Attorney's Office to see it. But the arguments written by and raped women from Vukovar as well as members of the Croatian Army and civilians who shared testimony in the books made it clear who the perpetrators were. I believe the State's Attorney's Office will request assistance from foreign embassies to equip or finance additional facilities, perhaps Japanese embassies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68991	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68992	I won't be here today. First of all, I would agree with you that we need to work to determine all the facts about the war crimes committed and the persons responsible for them. I'm not talking today about the scales of war crimes committed in Western Slavonia in '91. A year. But I'm going to mention only one thing that indicates and shows actually our complete lack of interest. That someone in France knocked down one of the primary monuments of the resistance movement in France, that someone in Great Britain had torn down one of the primary monuments to British soldiers who participated in World War II, as Bakic's monument was brought down in Kamenska in '91. the year, or '92. One of the most beautiful monuments of the species, one of the most beautiful works of art that was made in the space of the former Yugoslavia, and there is no need for anyone to even officially investigate and find out what happened there. And that's why I invite you both to meet together in that case as in other cases and to see where the people who have committed such disgusting acts as these are. So not only to humans but also to the greatest achievements in art and human art as it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68993	Branko Box, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68994	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You started your exposure with the impunity of the war crimes committed, so you started from Vukovar, and you ended up with Varivoda and... Since you were born in Benkovec as I did, I would also like you to mention the banking area, and I will remind you not only of you but also of the state's attorney and all of us, that 234 civilians were killed in that area and of that in the percentage amount of 99% were Croats. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As you know, only Zorana Banic has been convicted of war crimes so far, and all the actions that have been conducted so far have been dismissed for lack of evidence. Very interesting. In the report itself, I don't know exactly on which page, the state's attorney says about the crimes committed in World War II, and we also seem to be in a position where the Homeland War, due to lack of evidence or age, we have less and less hope that those who committed it will be punished. Here I'd like to, I repeat, if you'd mentioned that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68995	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68996	A fellow box about my birth and my growing up in the Benkovec area really creates an added sense of responsibility for this topic and for war crimes. And I don't have to tell you that I am ashamed of the crimes committed by some people in the Benkovec area and the destruction of St. Ante during the war in Benkovec. And I also don't have to tell you that it's inadmissible to process those who have no proof that they have committed, and those who have evidence that they committed crimes to be released in dim arrangements. That's right in Benkovac, that's right in other places. And don't ask me why it is, but call me so that we can together determine who did it and who does it to this day that the real perpetrators of crime against both Croats and Serbs are not punished but taken, as you know, by Edith and... and not the ones to be taken. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for the other topic, the Kasum theme, you have rightly raised the issue of war crimes. But the topic in which the city of Benkovac when you were mayor was involved in selling other people's property to a natural person for whom that natural person, based on the return of property, should pay 2 million and 600,000 kuna and the city sold it, is responsible because he passed the law. There are judgments about it, whether it's true or not, I'd be the happiest if it wasn't true. And I'd be luckiest if I wasn't right. Help us solve this case. And also help stop usurping property in the Benkovec area.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68997	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68998	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Chief State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. This report shall contain data on the state and movement of crime, on the actions taken to protect the property interests of the Republic of Croatia, on the work of the State's attorneys and on the material and personnel status of the same. We believe that the report has given a professional and thorough demonstration of the work of the state's attorneys and their deputies to prosecute perpetrators of criminal offences and protect the property of the Republic of Croatia. In 2012, 1712 people, 66 more than in 2011, and 251 more than in 2010. In 33 municipal state attorney's offices, 15 county's, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime and the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. What marked this period was the decline of criminal charges filed compared to 2011 and not only had the number of criminal charges dropped compared to 2011 but also the year 2010. One reason is, however, the entry into force of the new Penal Code under which some of the crimes went wrong. A careful analysis of the report indicates the need to continue taking measures to increase the effectiveness of the work of the State's attorneys. New legal solutions, Penal Code, Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on the State's Attorney's Office require significant changes in working methods and we believe that the State's Attorney's Office will pay special attention to the supervision of work, selection and education of state lawyers and deputies. The report states that there is still a perception in the public that the chief state attorney has the right and can decide on everything within the state's attorney organisation, reminding that the hierarchical structure provision applies to the attorney general while each state attorney and deputy is responsible and independent in deciding in a specific case. Of course, it is true that every lawyer and deputy attorney is independent in deciding a specific case but also true that every lawyer and deputy attorney is not independent in deciding whether or not an object will stand in a drawer or not and how long it will be in the dark of that same drawer. It is also a fact that quality oversight and, where appropriate, by launching tighter procedures against those who have unwarrantedly had lags, as the report on page 7, the number of such cases may be reduced to exceptions. Therefore, these are certainly the data to be contained and it is good to know these data, and it is also good that the State Attorney's Office received a total of 4 requests at the meeting of the Justice Committee and provided information and, for the sake of the public, according to your data in 2012, the State's Attorney General has received a total of 4 requests for the launch of tight procedures against the Deputy State Attorneys, one of which is due to a strict act of conduct or conduct contrary to the basic principles of the Ethics Code, and three of them due to an unwarranted failure or irregular exercise of the State Attorney's Office. Is that a fact we can be satisfied with, I'm not sure. We absolutely agree that filing a criminal application in many cases can be a result of personal accounting, in many there is no firm evidence but in many unwarranted misappropriation or disorderly conduct of the state of law. And, of course, we don't think there should be 300 or I don't know how many, but three certainly aren't a reflection of the real situation. Therefore, we believe that the amendments and additions of the Law on Criminal Procedure and Amendments and the additions of the Law on State Attorneyship to which the State Attorney is obliged to make a decision on the criminal application within 6 months, inform the applicant of the application and according to which the non-registration of the criminal application is intended as a stupendous act that this fact will reflect on future reports as well as the application of the provisions of the same law on the submission of a lower law report to the Member State, the request of a senior attorney for the preparation of reports, in particular by types of cases, the issuing of mandatory instructions for the work of a lower State Attorney's Office for the uniform application of the law as well as the order for the resolution of a particular case, and that all this will lead to quality oversight of senior state attorneyships over the lower and thus not processed criminal charges are indeed rare. Part of the report relating to the application of the Law on the Non-Depreciation of War Profits and Crimes of the Conversion and Privatisation Process, which entered into force on 2 June 2011. So, at the end of 2012, this report was in effect for a year and a half. The public is particularly sensitive to this problem and rightly so. The crimes of war profit and the acts of conversion and privatisation have further impoverished our country, many citizens have lost their jobs while some have become facelessly rich in other people's torment. From the way this is processed in the report, it follows that all that has been taken in that type of case requires changes in the factual and legal descriptions and legal codes of criminal offences which certainly cannot satisfy the satisfaction. Given that this also drew attention to the meeting of the Justice Committee, further data have been provided, and these data of course show a much more positive picture than to conclude from the report itself. In the year and a half, the provisions of the law have been applied in 26 cases compared to 64 persons with ten people under trial, 45 people have been indicted and 9 people have been wrongly convicted. The confiscation of property used by criminal activities is logically imposed as an effective means of countering crime facing the acquisition of property benefit. If that is not the case, then criminal acquisition of the property benefit is paid regardless of the penalties imposed for committing a criminal offence. The problem of confiscation of property benefits achieved by criminal activities is also at the centre of public interest and, of course, it is quite understandable, organised economic crime that often takes on and international dimensions characterizes precisely the acquisition of property benefit from significant scales that can seriously damage the functioning of the country's economic system. And that is why it is good that this report has given special attention because we will agree, there is no effective fight against crime and corruption unless effective confiscation mechanisms are established to benefit from the criminal offence. The criminal law which entered into force on 1 January of last year in the amendments and additions to the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on State Attorneyy, adopted in the autumn, gives rise to the principle by which no one can maintain the property benefit of the criminal offence. The principle that no one can maintain the property benefit achieved by the criminal offence by the State's Attorney's Office is to consistently carry out not only corruption crimes and criminal offences of organised crime, but also more than 50% of all criminal offences reported, seems to be due to the acquisition of property benefit. Therefore, in time, the assets of the suspects as well as the assets of the persons associated with them should be frozen, and new legal solutions will help to make the State's Attorney's Office even more effective. Much of the State's attorneys' work relates to work in civil and administrative cases, and here the drop in the number of cases as evidenced in criminal cases. Here we can talk about success from two points of view, less contentment by looking through percentages of acquired and lost litigation, and far greater satisfaction through the resulting litigation through the value of the subject matter. Finally, given that this report on the state and movement of crime data, the actions taken to protect the real estate interests of the Republic of Croatia, the work of the State's attorneys and the material and humane state of attorneys in the Republic of Croatia and all in 2012 and as it is a thorough demonstration of the work of the State's attorneys and their deputies to prosecute the perpetrators of criminal offences and protect the assets of the Republic of Croatia in 2012, the SDP Club will support the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u68999	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69000	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam and gentlemen of the Parliament, Attorney General. The debate on the 2012 State's Attorney's Annual Report is in fact an argument that will be held in May or June of this year when the Croatian Parliament will appoint a chief state attorney. The current chief state attorney, Mr. Mladen Bajic, sets out the procedure for the appointment, at the proposal of the Government of the Croatian Parliament, with the previous opinion of the Committee on Justice appointed and elected by the main state attorney. I hope that this debate will not pass in the light of these expected discussions and in light of the commitment to or against the current chief state attorney. A large part of the debate in the opening part did not have much direct connection with the State's Attorney's Office's 2012 report, only in the second part of the debate did the clubs look more or less closely at what the topic of the probing of this debate was. The report, the content of the report, shall be determined by Articles 2 and 40. The law on the State Attorney's Office according to which the report should contain a review of the movement and structure of the reported crime and of the case relating to the protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia, data on labour, a demonstration of the situation in certain areas, as well as a review of the work of the State's attorneys, statistics, etc. The report should warn us of the state and functioning of the legal system, the shortcomings in the legislation in order to detect and make proposals, and in that part, the report in accordance with the Law on the State's Attorney's Office has fulfilled what is necessary to fulfil, and although the content of the report must contain a review, movement and structure of the reported crime and cases, and does not mean that it does not have to have information that it is prohibited to exist and data relating to individual cases. It shall be mandatory to contain a report of that information in accordance with Articles 2 and 40. The Law on State Attorney's Office, which does not exclude that in relation to some interesting, socially interesting, those relating to 2012 do not give their own opinion. I would refer to this part in two parts of the report, two parts, one relating to war crimes and the other to part of the report relating to international legal cooperation and international legal aid related to criminal cases. War crimes first. The report noted statistics according to which 20 new applications were reported in 2012, 14.6 were dismissed, 8 warrants were issued, other cases were collected, 9 persons were charged after the investigation was completed, courts made 30 convictions of which 20 were convicted and that the most difficult cases still unknown to direct perpetrators, the State's Attorney General, together with the police, sought intensive research to determine the responsibility of the commanders or representatives of civil authorities. It's about what happened. the guarantee of command responsibility and, to that end, the specific action plan set out priorities in the research. Table 28 provides data on the number of crimes... according to the files as well as how processed, how many victims. It's very interesting to wash the latest data from the State's Attorney's office that at least 5979 people were killed. According to various other associations of the Ministry of Health and official government data during that period, the Homeland War period was killed or killed by about 15 thousand people. This is about the database that killed at least 5979. Although this report and the tables provide data on the number of crimes but not namely not on specific crimes according to places, it says that they give data on individual crimes, victims and crimes. However, there is no concrete data. The Croatian public is constantly warned over all these many years, and there is always a belief that the actions against war crimes, crimes against prisoners of war, crimes against humanity and international rights are not being prosecuted at all. ... different markings when and with the memorials from Borov Sel, from Četekovac, Čojluk, Balinac, Skabrnj, Celija, parts of Vukovar are always highlighted and the thesis for this has not been answered. And it would always be good for the state attorney to make one truly one analysis and to make it clear to the public to the Croatian Parliament whether it is concrete about those crimes committed in the western Slavonia of the Chetekovac, Balinac, Choluk, Cellia near Osijek, Škabrnje whether or not to initiate criminal proceedings against the subjugation, the employers, the perpetrators that the public knows that there is not always one impression that numerous crimes are not at all covered by the processing. That's why it would be important. Just as those crimes committed in camps from Nis, Mitrovica, Stajic, Begejca, were responsible people in the command structure then and the Yugoslav Army, Serbia, where these camps and prisons were on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and Yugoslavia, whether they were against all actors falling within the area of criminal responsibility to initiate criminal proceedings in which they are located. It is important that the Croatian public knows exactly and without any doubt that none of those who should answer are forgotten and forget to cover up numerous crimes and numerous victims. The second question is international co-operation. There is a relatively obscenity in this report to present certain data. It is the fact that the Republic of Croatia has concluded certain arrangements with the Ministry of War Crimes of the Republic of Croatia and that, within these arrangements, a kind of legal assistance to seek to reach a situation under which all those who committed war crimes in Croatia would be prosecuted in Croatia, and not that it is Serbia that took over the role of the Mini Hague in the area of the region by its 2003 law and that it processes people who specifically prosecuted, investigates, accuses and judges people who have committed crimes in the territory of Croatia from Croatian citizens with whom Serbia has nothing to do with these crimes in order to establish them. But by applying that law and the principles of general territoriality, she took the right to make such decisions. Also within that, I know the chief state attorney to conduct certain talks and arrangements with great difficulty in making that one arrangement to make all those earlier indictments of the former '92 JNA. the years where numerous Croatian defenders, especially Vukovars, have been charged. I'm the first indictee on the same charge of inciting genocide. And finally get those arrangements off the agenda. Serbia is now entering, entering negotiations, opening EU membership talks and continuing to pursue justice policy. She has taken over the persecution from the investigation of former JNA's military authorities. Neither has JNA, nor has Yugoslavia, and the indictments continue to live. That should finally be taken off the agenda once. I know you have big problems with that. There they are constantly changing, often changing governments, ministers of the judiciary and others. But finally, if we said that if Croatia said it was official that it would not cause any interference with Serbia's entry into the EU and then Serbia should also take care not to act like The Hague in Croatia, to run procedures, process, issue warrants, international warrants. And here I think, Mr. Chief Attorney General, that both your actions in the Croatian Parliament on this matter should give a new momentum, one impulse to finally transfer this issue of these charges to the JNA, the investigation of the JNA to remove this issue from the agenda and to transfer these cases as already an arrangement, to transfer these cases to the Croatian judiciary, some Croatian judiciary, Croatian State's Attorney's Office and state's attorneys and courts to investigate and judge those who are suspected or suspected of crimes committed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Not to be judged by judges. Those who conducted investigations in '92. years and [[Thank you very much. Bring the end of the team.]] and who are now on trial in 2013. [[Thank you very much. You have replicas and you will continue.]] Thank you very much, Madam President. The final position of the Croatian Democratic Community club will be expressed in a vote on this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69001	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69002	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Shakespeare, you've listed all the real events that make us miserable and tortured, which we meet on the ground, which are still a living wound in a Croatian being and our obligation to get rid of them along with the state's attorney and all their deputies as well as the county lawyers. It seems a lot, but not enough. And he believes that this legal aid that was established between Serbia and Croatia does not work very well. Because if it worked then those who were convicted in absentia would probably be brought to justice and again heard, established facts and will come to light. But just as those who are under the auspices of the famous amnesty, I will say freely for the camp in Buć the uninterrupted man walks, visits with us the days of our magnificent operations and nothing. He'd have to know if there's anything else for the bar where Dr. Shether is, where his butchered body is, and the 28 that went missing there. Likewise, the one in the walking Slatina would have to know about all the hundreds of civilians who were killed in your presentations, and half of them were only in Vojino when they ran away and retreated. You know it all, you know it all in the people. They describe books, witnesses, everything alive. Activities need to be directed, because while it isn't, we don't have peace in the field. We have constant questions. We are obliged and necessary to ask that we know specifically how much punishment is being punished, how much in absentia, how many red warrants, how much interstate cooperation has helped to process them in the finality that they are responsible for what they've done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69003	Replication response, Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69004	Col. Djakić, the politics of the Republic of Croatia, the policy of Croatian President Franjo Tudjman was that there was peaceful reintegration, that the laws of forgiveness were passed as much as I remember 3 or 4 of the Laws of Forgiveness, but that only those who participated in the armed rebellion were brought about. Just a mere involvement in an armed rebellion. What's beyond that for a crime committed in armed rebellion, murder and all the other punishable crimes? Therefore, they could not be forgiven by applying the Law of Forgiveness. The courts dealt with this, and they should have brought only those who had a mere participation in the armed rebellion to be resolved by applying the Law of Forgiveness. Second, I agree deeply with you. Indeed, for one of the most severe, monstrosistic crimes for which there is no statute of limitations today, which is a responsibility, a criminal responsibility for the ideas of the beginners, the ringleaders, the organizers, the inspirers and the perpetrators of one of the most monstrous acts, which is rape as a war crime. What was done in Vukovar according to numerous women, girls, mothers where rape was used as a weapon is something of the most unsatisfactory and monstrosity and there must be as fast as possible and as much justice as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69005	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69006	Thank you. You have pointed out with the right that Serbia has started negotiations with the EU and that it is actually an opportunity for some things to actually relate between the Republic of Serbia to offices through this very approach process that lies ahead of Serbia. Namely, the European Parliament resolution also ordered Serbia to open some of its archives such as the UDBA archives and numerous archives that were in Belgrade should be made available to followers of the former common state, hence the former Yugoslavia. In this sense, it is absolutely certain that it is necessary to take advantage of the occasion and try to get all the documents these archives have, which relate to the Croatian state and to the citizens or the population of the Republic of Croatia. As far as punishing war crimes is concerned, I absolutely need to support you, and I think it should be one of the conclusions that we should consider on behalf of the club, which is indeed to publish all the crimes that have been committed and whether or not anyone at what stage, how many persons are suspected, are the employers. Because that really interests everyone. We are also interested in who is responsible for the fact that nearly 200 civilians died in Dubrovnik at the time of the Homeland War, of course over 200 defenders died and, of course, it is necessary to determine who these employers were and who responded. So far, he's the only one who's ever responded to the Rabbit but to an inappropriate punishment in The Hague. We saw that Momcilo Perisic, chief of the Yugoslav Army Staff, was released. Fortunately, I see a few days ago, The Hague filed a request, or the prosecution filed a motion to review such a decision, which is as good news as it is. But just as Dubrovnik's example is clear about what aggression to the Serbian Chetnik, Montenegrin, was there and these employers could have known each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69007	The last replica, the esteemed Mrs. Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69008	Thank you very much. You mentioned and rightly reminded of the charges coming from Serbia, so the accusations on which many Croatian defenders have extended jurisdiction to the territory of the Republic of Croatia and you remember, of course, because you actively participated in the fact that in 2011, as some kind of response, we have passed the Law on damages in which we have said that no country can extend its jurisdiction to the neighbouring country or, in any way, our keeping in mind that every crime should be tried and that any crime should be prosecuted. However, this law is still in the Constitutional Court, its assessment of constitutionality is sought and it is possible that the law falls in the Constitutional Court given the different echoes in the political space of the Republic of Croatia. But we can ask this issue as the 28th EU member, not as an obstacle and not as an obstacle, but as a matter to be discussed during the negotiations of the Republic of Serbia to join the EU. These are issues that need to be cleared up in their equivalent to Chapter 23, because one day, and I think a lot more, a lot of water will pass by then, and our neighbouring country will be an EU member and will also be subject to the Law on Judicial Cooperation with EU countries. And then, of course, the conduct of the State Attorney's Office, as we have seen here, we have witnessed the conduct of the State's Attorney's Office in some fresh cases which, of course, had to follow the laws of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69009	Thank you. This replica corresponds to a colleague named Vladimir Shakespeare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69010	Yes, Mrs. Kosor, you are right because that law on the integrity of certain acts of judicial bodies of former JNA, former SFRY and the Republic of Serbia was brought into that atmosphere when the Serbian War Crimes Tribunal or the Serbian War Crimes Prosecutor sent 44 persons to Croatia, 40 of them were Croatian defenders who were captured in Vukovar and were later tried in the Belgrade Military Court from death sentences to various other long-term sentences and 4 of them were given the trial, including myself, and these indictments were reported in Croatia that our courts, municipal courts, were brought to these charges. The '92 U.S. Attorney's indictments. A year. And then there was the adoption of this Law on Vulnerabilities, and what was again in line with the decision of the Croatian Parliament of 8 October 1991. the years when no acts by the former state and the JNA were declared to be harmful, so it was wanted to be said that no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That law is still in the Constitutional Court, it collects dust there probably is, and if it hadn't been for these events now sudden then that law would have been completely exceeded if it hadn't been resolved at that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69011	Thank you. And now I'm setting a break until 3:00 p.m. when we continue this debate by the clubs. He will discuss on behalf of HNS club counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric. Bon appetit! My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. It is next to the HNS club and respected counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69013	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief State Attorney and colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I have to notice. I have to notice we're a little late, not a little late with this report, and I think that what we usually say in the debates is whether we support something or not. As a club, I think it's even explicit here to talk about it since it's already going on in 2014 and that possibly some of our views on who might change something or timing for this attitude has passed long ago but, of course, it's always good to have a debate on such an important report. This report is not only a report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office but I think it's the only report that comes to us, which actually contains a total picture of the situation in the judiciary, actually in the Republic of Croatia from which we can read certain trends. I think that, here's a colleague in the debate he mentioned, so I wanted to start this debate of ours that was a secret in the courage of the attorney general whether there was something to do or not. I think it's completely wrong, in a democratic state in this way to think is not a secret in his courage or in his cowardice but a secret lies in the procedure, a secret lies in evidence that someone is guilty and that a verdict is made based on evidence whether or not he is guilty. Everything else is actually what we see daily in politics or community in society, which is one general hysteria, one general link against all, means something that we as a party definitely cannot support. What we stand for and what we will always advocate to respect the procedures, to respect the laws and, of course, to the work of the state's attorney's office. What of course to us and not just to us and to all citizens, and such a general perception is what we find difficult is that all of these procedures should be much faster and much more effective. However, as usually this debate in the Assembly always or most of its time comes down to who will in some way be stronger or better offended by the state's attorney-in-law not to say personally and the chief attorney-general because it is obviously a very convenient field for collecting political points, since the overall state of society and the individual people in the country are mostly faced with their personal problems and are usually encouraged through various media that someone else is guilty and ideally when it is someone in a person who represents yet a powerful vertical authority and it is a state attorney and that is the state's attorney, so if he can be guilty of everything, then it's kind of easier for all of us. But what we think we should do is step away a little bit from all that, I think one colleague here has turned the whole discussion a little bit into another direction about this report. A colleague from the HDSSB, I think, was a good debate and all the discussions that were followed after that, we started talking differently about this report. What we should focus on in the analysis, of course, is that they are the bad indicators in this report and what some positive shifts are. I think in the last report, when I was saying this, I stressed that all of the good parties should be stressed and that, in addition to that, we should not discuss in the House in a way that is humiliating or demeaning in any way the position of the state's attorney and that is, unfortunately, often, a case which, of course, does not mean that we have to flatter the state's attorneyship and say that what we are doing is something that we are actually expecting. Now I'd like to say a few words at the perception level means backwards. This is actually the first State's Attorney's Office report in the term of office of this government means by 2012 and I think that some shifts, first of all from the level of perception, have about the work of the state's attorney. I've mostly talked about these reports on behalf of the HNS Club, and I know that from both this pay phone and my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP, I warned the HDZ State Attorney's Office about some of the phenomena that we characterised as not good, and now I don't know if it affected the fact that it did fix the situation, but maybe I'm not quite sure that we were the ones who affected it, but if we did, that's good. We were talking, among other things, about the fact that the girls information that the public or the media are too concerned and they have knowledge of the processes, the investigations before they were even launched in a formal sense, that our state's attorney became actually celibacy that I also said last time that it wasn't good. It seems to me that in these some years this perception has changed a little bit, that it is no longer so, and that's something that I think should be commended from this assembly, and I believe it will be in the next period. I then prayed on behalf of the club to change that position of the state's attorney, meaning that he, by his personal behavior and authority, has influenced that perception, meaning from the outside, and I think that one good part of it has succeeded during this period of a year. Of course it won't be completely because today will probably be the star of the day again, but let it be today and for a while, and then let him back up and do his job. In addition, I think that politics, i.e. that the message in fact of these governments towards the work of the State's Attorney's Office and the position was one step higher than the previous period, and that this government has sent a message that it does not want the executive authority to want an independent judiciary, as well as an independent attorneyship as possible and, in that sense, that the State's Attorney's Office has a better position to determine the tasks for which it is responsible. What we've noticed through this report means that there's some difficulty in the work of the State's Attorney's office, somewhere it's quite a saying, and somewhere I think it's possible to read between the lines that there are problems, especially in the human sense. So, we're reading, that if we were to rely on the media alone, it would turn out that almost every other person, every other citizen, every other citizen in the Republic of Croatia, is a possible subject of a police investigation or a state's attorney's office. God forbid it's like that, it's not like that. But it feels like a lot of pressure on the State's Attorney's office, generally on the judiciary, and apparently that a large number of cases simply can't administratively swallow the State's Attorney's office in the way we expect it to, or that it can't satisfy the speed and efficiency that we expect. As far as the funds are concerned, of course it's a key problem because the state budget has the opportunities it has. I'm afraid the wrong place to save is the State's Attorney's Office, especially if we're really going to analyze the work through statistics and through numbers in the right way, so we also have to provide adequate conditions if it's going to be a sanction against the State's Attorney's office that it didn't satisfy its work. So I think that the number of people and the amount of money is intended for the work of the State's Attorney's Office, one of the key issues to improve the conditions, i.e. the efficiency of the institution's work. Also, the question of information, which most of us probably think shouldn't be a question, but obviously it is. So, the whole system's network. It's also read from this report somewhere that we don't have those resources, at least as many as we should be. And something that we also read and what seems to me to be the same is the problem that our chief state attorney has in his power, or in his dealings with himself in the hierarchy, means to state attorneys in the county, that just as I would say, actions don't go according to some hierarchical principle and that the question is how much of a state attorney about himself, no matter who he is, can have the full responsibility to stand behind all the work if he doesn't have certain powers. Now, of course, there's a question of how much more power, or how much more power could a state's attorney-in-chief have to act harder and maybe more efficient, but then of course the question is how transparent is it, how democratic is it? I said, so this report is all about the situation in the judiciary a lot, what are concrete indicators, we see that there's a certain drop in the case, the number of cases that are in the procedure. They're not just consequences of perhaps more efficient work. I must stress this is the 2012 report, but the previous government has already passed some laws that have gone in the direction of improving, or better quality, more effective work from the Criminal Law to the Criminal Procedure Act that they had intensified to facilitate and simplify the work of the State's Attorney's Office, as well as the judiciary as a whole. The State's Attorney's Office is only part of the entire mosaic of the institutions in the judiciary, here rarely, or when we talk about the laws that come from the Ministry of Justice, we talk about courts, but there are a large part of the responsibility in the work of the State's Attorney's Office, and this report also shows that there are significant problems in functioning, i.e. in making certain decisions, and even in respect of the work of the State's Attorney's Office. This is something that, of course, is the job of the Minister of Justice to see what can be done to make these relations legally regulated in a way that can achieve better results. I was going to say that in the judiciary all the components must work well to measure the first overall results, and then, of course, the qualitative individual results of each of the stakeholders in the process, as well as the State's Attorney's office. And in the end whether we are satisfied or whether we could accept this report or not, of course, that any citizen who expects to be in this country will finally be better expected much more. And it is very important that the total judiciary, and in particular the State's Attorney's Office is a clean, transparent story, that there are results, that processes against officials are the most common issue, although they are not only the only ones but are somehow the most visible, that when these processes are opened, they are solved and closed as soon as possible, or whether they reject or eventually go into further procedure. And what most of us expect to finally experience and experience, if there are proven faults that we welcome them as judgments and as an example to the long ones that they can no longer be done. We don't have too many, and we definitely have a reason to look for it. Here I said the HNS will support this report since it still finds it a little bit of what is said already acidified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69014	Thank you. Branko Vuksic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69015	Dear colleagues, here we have received once more I will not tell the lesson but recommendations that should be spoken from the constituencies since there was only one sharper debate about it, I felt that some of your arrows were pointed at how we discussed on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, my littleness. Just to say, there were no personal insults and no political points. First of all, there were no personal insults I was not talking about Mladen Bajic as a person but as a state lawyer, therefore I did not go personally to Mr Mladen Bajic but I spoke of the objections that we Croatian Labourists see, but not just us, but when we listen to the public, which part of the public is not all, because neither are you who say that all citizens think as we think. And I can't think of anything to hurt Mr. Bajic himself, so I refuse such innuendo. And the other thing, one good part of my debate, I used the words of Mr. Prime Minister Milanovic and I don't think Mr. Milanovic had any intention of insulting Mr. Bajic either, and that Mr. Milanovic should not be defended either. So I was actually talking about the perception of corruption in Croatia, and a good part of the public is in agreement with the public of ordinary people as well as experts and those who are in Croatia and outside Croatia. So I think it was all clear in our presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69016	A response to the replica of Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69017	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, first of all, I didn't really call at any point any political party that spoke for the club, and secondly, I don't know why the need for my colleagues in Labour to be justice to me, or I suppose to Mr. Bajic or all of us here for what he said, and now he's repeated.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69018	The second replica of the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69019	Thank you very much. My colleagues Turina-Đurić encouraged me to think again, and I believe that you will agree that when politicians and then MPs or members of the government discuss the work of the State's Attorney's Office, then we have to do as much as possible to deprive ourselves of the oftentimes to compete in which and whose time the work of the State's Attorney's Office or State's Attorney General was better or worse. And what we as a policy need to ensure to the State's Attorney's Office is laws that are actually tools, which are better and as much as possible for the State's Attorney's Office to be fully independent and independently of policy influence, that will also make their work better. Of course, that's what I mean about changes in the CAP, that's what they're talking about. So we can narrow this space down, spread this space, and what we have to especially guard ourselves with when because what does DORH have to do? He's got laws to enforce, nothing more, nothing less than they do, and courts have to do. Of course, policy tends to assess selectively in this regard, so when the State's Attorney's Office implements the law on confiscation of property and the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on the European Arrest Warrant, then we often tend to take what is right for us in politics, and the State's Attorney's Office must always just enforce the law, and here is this very current Law on judicial cooperation with EU member states.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69020	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one came from Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69021	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Chief Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. I think that all together we can be pleased that here after so many years since the State's Attorney's report for the past years has been submitted that it grows more and more convinced and that's the way discussions are except we still have some exceptions and that's mostly when they're cameras. But it'll all come to its own. When we concentrate really, when we read the report from beginning to end, when we concentrate on a very difficult and responsible job, when we see how much work is done and when we see how much it is not and what it should be. So one criticism to praise what is good, to criticize what can be even better. This is what we expect at the end of the day from the judicial authority and it does so. And that seems and that's what the state's attorney does and in this report right from the start. It gives criticism both with the right and the legislation now less, because we have largely adopted what is practically the State's Attorney's Office and asked for. We have a new CAP, we have an amended CAP that has enabled many procedures for which we today would not have any processes or court decisions. However, also with the right here, there is an observation that more financial resources should be provided for the new role played by the State's Attorney's office, for a whole series of new roles which, as well as the amended laws concerning the State's Attorney's Office and the judiciary as a whole, assign new tasks to the State's Attorney's Office. However, I say that I am particularly pleased that such discussions are prevailing, so here is this latest replica and debate by Mrs Turic, and even speaking on behalf of the club of colleagues Sheks who are therefore, each from their point of view expressed something that they have seen, which seems particularly interesting to them in the report itself. And what my colleague Kosor said, now that we're looking at the report, we need to see how well we as legislators have done, and in what direction this criminal policy is heading. Which crimes are well processed, where people are satisfied, where only the State's Attorney's Office is satisfied, where it still squeaks, where we have a gray zone, where we have this gray undiscovered crime. And that's what I'm going to say especially when I move on to certain branches, or the head of crime. The state's attorney's business and the state's attorneys of all, not only the state's chief attorney are not stars. If that happens at the beginning or from time to time, then what happens at the Croatian Parliament? People are competing who will praise the state's attorney more so that the gram of fame can pass on to them. When some criticisms start, then some act so as not to be celebrated by certain statements that have already been made. It's one wrong way and I'm satisfied that it's just left on margins and on individuals. But what especially knowing the work of a state attorney and otherwise the judiciary as a whole can say is that, so the best journalists who even report how many hours it takes to keep an eye on the debate in order to hear maybe something interesting. It's a fact-finding business from morning to night. I wish, Mr. Chief Attorney General, that all state's attorneys, unfortunately, should say so openly, and that's what I think and knows, at the state level, that this is how all State's attorneys throughout Croatia have to do, especially the County State's Attorney's Office. So, we already have that assessment that the new CAP is good, that it has made it possible at all to focus on conducting an investigation conducted by the State's Attorney's Office because it also says specific measures, measures to eloquently state the listening measures because without such specific measures dangerous crime, especially that economic nor would be discovered later, nor would it be prosecuted or obtained an adequate epilogue in court. What we can say in particular, and what we have seen in recent years, at first, when we have introduced, is now 14 or 12 certainly full years, the criminal responsibility of legal persons has taken a long time to mature, therefore, and while the criminality of legal persons is recognised because many natural persons are hiding behind legal persons, many legal persons and have been committed to commit crimes or to be a front for committing crimes, and it is evident year after year. When we see how the applications were from year to year, then we see exactly the movements in society. We remember a few years ago, or before each election, there's a war on criminal charges, and you see it exactly. You see, 2011 was an election year. You have had a dramatic increase in criminal charges while already in 2012 the situation has stabilised to the extent that here we see a marked decline in crime in certain groups, or the heads of crime. If we asked the average citizens, and therefore I was bothered by some debates a month or several months ago where the possibility, or incompetence of the judiciary as a whole, was denied. It was even more critical of the judiciary itself, but then of the State's Attorney's Office itself. So, if you asked the average man if our judiciary was capable of judging war crimes, everyone would say it, that's it. However, with regard to some other crimes, we are often still inadmissible to be obsessed with either the victim or the perpetrator, so as it is called, we adapt our discussions when we discuss certain laws that are inadmissible. And I think that here they are, and they're kind of moving into oblivion of such a time that it's a great contribution to improve and that our institutions gain greater confidence in citizens. Because not institutions that have to stick to, so they don't have popularity because they have to care about it, and they don't care when they say why something isn't being prosecuted, so it's being prosecuted why judgment has fallen on the court. He wasn't a successful state's attorney or a state's attorney. The state's attorney's office has a different decision than the court. The state's attorney's office doesn't determine guilt. It determines the basics of doubt and proceeds to proceedings. The court is the only one who determines guilt. These are diametrically different things. Therefore, the influence and reputation I think that all those people who had the opportunity to participate in such events organised in Europe but also beyond, had the opportunity to see great trust and trust in our judiciary and certain criticism, but also great trust in the State's Attorney's Office and its work. Even though I say we can have a number of remarks. I will repeat because I think it is important to point out that when someone criticises us, someone who is not so or some association that is not so exposed in the world or in the European public, they are the headlines. But no one recorded this today. I will read again, it is the European Commission's report on the state of corruption in Croatia. It is in a position to carry out impartial investigations into reported cases of corruption regardless of the politicality or relationship of the persons to whom the investigations are concerned. This is a big confession I would tell all of us here and then directly and directly to the State's Attorney's office. And by the way, we know how detailed such observations are. Of course every single person, that's why I don't like to talk about an individual case because you get the wrong picture. But as long as I know and understand what the public is saying, our discussions should be different and not feed it but strengthen the confidence, independence and self-awareness of the people who work there and give them the necessary tools and means to deal with everything that still hangs and what people rightly expect and judicial epilogue. So, you can see that with regard to the application of economic crime, now I don't know if it's a reflection of the difficult situation in the economy, because whenever it is, there are fewer reported ones. Furthermore, in the case of criminal offences against justice, I am pleased to see that, this was not before the case, that everything and everything could be said before the court, that it was very damaging to the judiciary itself and to the State's Attorney's Office and to the court with regard to false application, false testimony, prevention of evidence and violation of the confidentiality of the proceedings that brought criminal proceedings that contributed to the criminality of the judiciary and which is a very serious criminal offence in the countries that take care of the independence of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69022	Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69023	That'd be it, good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69024	Thank you. Replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69025	Dear counterparts Antičević-Marinović, according to your discussion, also part of Mr. Milanović's fame for Mr. Mladen Bajic wanted to pass on to himself in 2010. I was quoting today what he was saying back then. And read what the SDPs said on the same subject in 2010, I read.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69026	Second replica, Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69027	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleagues Ingrid, I agree with you that these reports by the state's attorney show the results of law enforcement in practice, and also as you said yourself they show some direction of law, so here's the report that the crimes of abuse of intoxicating drugs are that applications for the easiest form of this crime are in drastic decline. Of course, it is also the cause that the current crime of drug possession is still a violation. And on the rise, it says, there are increasing applications for the most difficult form of organized drug reselling, which is actually when you look at the report it's actually about the successful international cooperation of our employees in that portfolio. It may be interesting to compare next year, given that in 2013, a new Penal Code has entered into force where some articles have been deleted or have been decriminalized in fact so that next time in the next report we may see many more changes but so far, of course I hope for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69028	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69029	Well, that's exactly what the debate on the report is about, to see how much our laws have contributed to the processing of the most serious crimes. For years, in 2003, we introduced it, the opposition then opposed, that we then had this crime than we had just introduced it, so that we are spending on insignificant acts of drug possession, now we are more successful in that most dangerous drug-related crime, which is trafficking, trade, farming, or drug production. The weight of what it's like to work there best tells you the information, you'll see that over 63% of women work in the State's Attorney's Office. Which means that even the salaries are no longer paid, that the men have moved away and the hardest part of the work in USKOK is done by women. And on the other hand in our society, this is also visible from the report itself, the victim of crime, or the most serious crimes of murder, assault on life, and the body of women as victims. On the other hand, they show their courage on the most dangerous business. But that's what I think and the wisdom of leadership to hire exactly women because men have moved to Coca-Cola and some better-paid jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69030	We're continuing an individual debate. Damir Cain, he's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Dear colleague Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69031	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Chief State Attorney, ladies and gentlemen. I'll read you a piece of the Justice Committee's conclusion first. "The general assessment is that the report," as regards this report, "totally, correctly, in substance supported by statistical indicators in all segments of the State's Attorney's Office's work. It is expressed satisfaction that the 2012 Report is explained in a segment to which the earlier year’s remark is highlighted, such as the issue of a large number of rejections of criminal cases.” The Committee supports the progress of the State Attorney's Office in the area of alternative dispute resolution. It's the decision of the board that was unanimously taken. Four political parties and one independent are represented in the committee. It is a good sign and that in time we discussed very professionally and well-foundedly with the state's attorney how to make this report better, there were also criticisms that were respected. But I'm reporting here, and that's why I'm a little bit more careful about things. First, discussions often left out the realization that this is not about the report on Mladen Bajic, but about the work of the State's Attorney's Office, not about persons who can be criticised by this or that character. Mladen Bajic is not a man who needs to replace the work of all those 1712 if I follow the statistics of the state's attorney's office. It's about what the State's Attorney's Office has done in general, what the results are, and this is as pointed out in one of the debates, this is an excellent indicator and a demonstration of what society is, not what the State's Attorney's Office is, but in which all areas and how the State's Attorney's Office must act. These are serious forms of crime, it is not simply an insult to each other or a question of land borders. What needs to be seen are some points highlighted about the report on internal relations, information and resources. As regards internal relations, the fact needs to be pointed out, it has already been said that the State Attorney's Office must be an extremely hierarchically organised institution in which the responsibility of the attorney general must be followed by its powers and what we see in reality and the objections often go to that very point is that the State's Attorney General cannot act as such a homogeneous whole. As far as informationing is concerned, it's not a simple question of buying computers and money, it's a question of changing the methods of organising the operation of the State's Attorney's Office. Since time is going fast, let me cut short, then let me say some more things. The question of timing has been asked here, it is said that Mr. State's Attorney is a master of timing, because there is always something that testifies to the efficiency of the state's attorney. True, that's every time, every seven months or a year. As for the timing, I admire him that he could have predicted that he would have written in the report or in the European Commission's study on corruption in Croatia where trust was given as colleague Anticevic said, there is only one institution, and this is the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK. This isn't about statistics, manipulation of the facts of this figure or that number. It's about reputation, it's about the state's attorney's office for years and for the previous government having had an independent non-independent so-called objective assessors very good assessment of their actions. What has been pointed out and what is now much smaller can be pointed out is the fact that people are missing, that the resources are missing, but not because of the State's Attorney's Office, but because of the situation in society. It would be great if we didn't have to invest so much in criminal persecution than to invest more in schools, but that's not the case here. As for the complaints raised here, which pointed to the lack of commitment or the ferocity of Mr. Bajic, I think it is quite the opposite. I don't see a person in the justice system of Croatia showing so much gleaming that... how much or maybe it's just an impression we have of you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But gentlemen, this is a matter of such trust, therefore, to the reputation of the institution. This is also about the fact that the State's Attorney's Office should be quite realistic on its own with many of what other institutions and parliament are tasked with, but just compare what our reputation is, what is the reputation of the State's Attorney's Office in the research of public change. As for one thing that the statistical data is indeed, it was in the debate a year ago highlighted. Indeed, one impressive piece of information about the number of successful, successful cases, 94% of USKOK. It's something that surpasses and overcomes the standard standards that exist in the world. This isn't about selecting cases that are easy to get. Quite the opposite, the State's Attorney's Office obviously focused on those priority items that have the greatest meaning for society and politics. So that's why the media and you all pay so much attention to what they're doing. It may be that this does not leave out enough attention and concentration at a local level of visible cases, but we cannot be denied the impression that the State's Attorney's Office has done a great deal. There's another word for it. That the Code of Criminal Procedure and the possibility of an agreement with witnesses, that they are kind of driven away from punishment, that it is bad. Well, we've had our own comments about how some senior officials are being punished. But this is about cases where other procedures of proof are almost impossible. For example, corruption, abuse, authority by top state officials cannot be proven by listening to them or by listening to witnesses who paid or kept them but rather by getting direct participants in all these jobs. In order to do so, it is necessary to give both forgiveness and relief to those who confess and repent. Because of this and the assessment that we have introduced us and our legal tradition of an unknown legal institution too quickly and too quickly, it is not true. I think the work of the State's Attorney's Office shows that such instruments can be used well and usefully. In the end, allow only one final sentence. If this committee has unanimously supported the report, and all members of the board have already been exposed and spoken or are still on the list of participants reported, if this was not about party voting, then I am coming to the conclusion that the report has been done in a good way, objectively, that it expresses really the real problems that the State's Attorney General has and will understand. I'm aware that it's not easy to sit around and endure criticism, examples that aren't very handsome and beautiful, but that's exactly the task of this House. There, however, should be taken care of various... What is it, what is criticism, and what is praise? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think there's a lot more weight on the side of the commendation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69032	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Peja Grbin first.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69033	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my dear colleague, I am very pleased that in your debate you pointed out something that I find extremely important, which is the fact that today's discussion is not only Mr. Bajic, but the work of an entire service in which hundreds and hundreds of people are diligently doing their job. Of course, in the work of that service there are also certain failures and what I have listened to Mr. State's attorney and here and what I have listened to on the board, he is willing to talk about these failures and do much to make them change and correct. But what we've been listening to since this morning has nothing to do with this report. The debate on individual cases, entering them as if they were ruled, as if what is written in the media is a fact that someone should be put in jail immediately. Tom, this isn't the place. We here need to discuss certain problems in the work of the State's Attorney's Office, we have done so since 2012 when we first discussed the 2010 report until today. Every year I see the state's attorney reacting to what is said here and supplementing his report, correcting and showing that this debate is not in vain. But we cannot discuss only one person here and our possible dissatisfaction with him, we must be aware that behind Mr. Bajic stands the service of hardworking and hardworking people. And I am glad that in your debate, you have pointed out exactly what needs to be fixed and what needs to be changed, and not as some that you have come down to commenting on why Mr. Bajic needs to be replaced, why he is wrong or his name to give various epithets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69034	Second replica, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69035	Thank you very much. I'd also like to thank my colleague Kregar for bringing us back, I think to the center and to the center of our profession. So, we are not just talking today about the work of the attorney general, certainly about his work, but we are talking about this whole big Corps about many people who require not only knowledge, but also about endurance, but also about courage in their work because they are equally exposed to various pressures that are not only and can't be just political. You mentioned good grades and colleagues before Antičević-Marinović, the work of the State Attorney's Office in the EU, i.e. the European Commission. Such assessments were also during the negotiations, so during the negotiations on Chapter 23 on the work of the State Attorney's Office and USKOK, and these bodies made a major contribution to completing the negotiations together. In fact, we've all been working towards one thing, and I mean a very important principle. So independent institutions, absolutely independent in their work, but dependent on Croatian interests. And what is Croatia's interest in fighting corruption and fighting crime and research and then condemning war crimes?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69036	The line matches, dear Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69037	I thank Mrs. Kosor because this gives me the opportunity to clarify another important matter and its implications. The me of the State Attorney's Office, which has been positively assessed in this latest report, is compared in all these reports with other countries, and this particularly highlights Croatia's great advantage and progress. That's something to remember. But the implications of it are also very important. The independence of the attorney's office actually means that it does not agree to the political instrumentalisation of its work and it is important to support it and then it is important that it would not be a weak point or a point of defense for those who actually want the worse work of the State's Attorney's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69038	Third replica, respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69039	A respected colleague, corruption and necessity, so importing the possibilities of a settlement and which are increasingly used and where real knowledge of the entire course of events is being learned, because only insiders can know, no one on the side, we can assume what is happening, but no one knows exactly what happened, and in the process it is necessary to determine and it causes a lot of caution, however, when Anglo-Saxon countries have been doing it for centuries, when it has long, for 50 years or 30 years certainly penetrated the continental part of Europe, so they are also using it. It should also be said that therefore one of the major changes of the CAP has just gone this way. And these are doubtless these results. But on the other hand, as much as we have praise for the USKOK institution, we have the desire to do a little bit of prevention, and this is our joint job here. Now it's no longer a problem of processing, that's how other people look at us, we still don't look at it that way, and maybe we don't have to agree on it. But to break that mystic with a foreign element, we see how few crimes we have laundering money. They are also one, two cases in Europe, a large part of the EU and thus all member states. I read somewhere a piece of information that a trillion euros a year is lost in tax havens and on the trail of money that disappears in these tax havens and is later being dragged into countries like legal flows. Now, we have a lot of claims from our institutions here, but the colors of the courteous countries don't match and they don't shut up. I think that we, as an equal EU member, should now speak equally and loudly about these problems because it cannot happen that... the neighbouring country is silent about certain things and that then the consequences of the non-disclosure that concerns us and our perpetrators are all being brought together here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69040	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69041	Thank you. Mr. State's Attorney. I will in this individual debate try to focus on this report of yours. Introductoryly, on behalf of the club, we said general assessments of some things first of all about the analysis of the 2012 report. Of course this will be much more interesting for the analysis in 2013 because it will probably have some more attractive and fresher topics and fresher data. All right. This report has been done in our view correctly, statistically processed various topics, very well expressed, and one who will properly analyse them can come to some knowledge of certain negative phenomena of this moment in our society. At the same time, it can be seen what is the effect or effectiveness of both the DORH itself and the judiciary itself. So in the table, say 27 that talks, analyzes through drug statistics, adults, movement, application, prosecutions and convictions, topics we haven't talked about much. But the data is fragrant. The first table says that 3826 adults related to drugs were reported in 2012 and were sentenced by 1943 adults. Also reported for the same thing is 884 underage minors actually, the category of minors, at the same time 160 were convicted. The minors were reported to be 342 and 53 minors were convicted. What does that tell us? That drugs are present at school, that drugs are present in public gathering rooms, public parties, and, of course, drugs are controlled by very serious people. Also, when we see statistics where the drugs most appear, interesting information is most interesting in Dubrovnik space, then the city of Pula. At least they're in Vukovar and Bjelovar. The question is, why is that? Is it because of the character of the port cities, is it because of the tourist propulsion, is it because of the cruisers, is it why? Mostly the fact is that this indicates a very serious alarming situation of a drug phenomenon. Drugs appear in our small provinces and people are always surprised to hear who sells drugs and who consumes it in ordinary rural areas. We also see here the following information, there is talk of domestic violence, and then we find that in the city of Pula there are 103 cases of violence against women and 40 against men, 93 cases of violence against women in Varazdin, in Zagreb 180 cases of violence against women, 55 violence against men. So whether the space of life with a higher social standard and a space where this violence is happening more or the situation is reversed that we as a society still haven't matured enough so in those environments where this standard of living is somewhat smaller, somewhat lower people have a certain fear of reporting these negative phenomena. So if we are also reading these statistics and some other data then we could conclude a certain mental state or social hygiene at the moment in the Republic of Croatia. I'm just going to go back on another plate, there's been a lot of talk today about war crimes, but generally this table shows that up until now about 3436 people are being charged with war crime 557, 557 has been convicted, 760 suspended 1221 pending verdicts. This is mainly about people of Serbian nationality. I think it's important to say that because it's always said, there's the point that in terms of prosecution and trial for war crimes, the State's attorney doesn't do his job. So this data says it's not exactly like that. I'm going to use the presence of a state attorney here, so I'm going to point to two phenomena that aren't processed here in the report, and I think they're very important for a particular population. It's a matter of life nature issues, of field problems. Namely, in the area of Dalmatia, Korduna, Banije, like even islands in the hinterland of Zadar, we have cases that people were not up-to-date or had not had enough documentation or did not know that they needed to update their property in land books. Of course, the war has also done its part, of course, that there has been the destruction of certain kinds of evidence that private persons should have in terms of updating grant ownership. But the fact is that we have a lot of cases where in such cases the state has signed up as the owner of these properties, even though the owners, the peaceful owners have been using it for generations. So we know that maybe they've made certain failures. A lot of people couldn't do that. But we're asking if we can meet these people now? Whether DORH can take certain measures in terms of reviewing all these registration procedures, enable people to return to the original state of the whole thing, give them a chance to obtain certain evidence, i.e. the fact that they are re-entered as normally valid owners of that property. And the other thing is, so there was already talk about it, but we didn't get a certain answer. Law on areas of special care, Article 14. The law was amended, or amended, where that restrictive provision for the ban on alienation, the availability of 10 years of real estate was the reason why many people came under appeal. We said then that somewhere around 70 lawsuits were filed against a category of returnees who had not yet returned to their restored homes for various existential reasons. And now they're under arrest for compensation for the expenses incurred in rebuilding those houses. Some courts such as the Municipal Court in Kutina or the Municipal Court in Zagreb have, of course, respected the fact that Article 14 was complemented by the amendment and they simply rejected the claim of the Ministry of Regional Development. However, the DORH has filed a complaint. 70 people at this point depend on the fact that the DORH is going to file an appeal for the rejection of the suit. Therefore, I ask the attorney general to consider this fact and simply to see how we can avoid expensive unnecessary judicial and unfair, unfair judicial costs to these people and also to the state. And in the end, I'd just say one more thing that's not about this one. There was a basketball match between KK Cibon and KK Partizan yesterday. On three occasions, what is often manifested has been manifested, and we do not want one candid, one call "kill, kill a Serb" on three occasions. In doing so, no one has responded, nor has the administration, nor are the delegates, nor are the judges. I ask the question simply who can answer for such things, for such public hate calls? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69042	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First, Tatjana Šimac Bonačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69043	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Horvat, you mentioned in your speech underagers or juvenile delinquency and drug addiction. Well, I'd say the State's Attorney's Office is sure to follow, and we can see through these reports, too, monitoring the movement of juvenile crime. Of course further analysis is needed, further work on why this is happening, what we've done, whether we're on the right track, what we're doing. I also thought that every minor should approach him individually, because the work is specific, so we remember when a 17-year-old had a very thick record of over 200 applications, which they themselves said they were talking to to help them out more than the arrests themselves. Thus, it tells us that we need to work much more with these children, that is, those minors, that is, to work on prevention and, of course, we all agree. The report says, and we know this before criminal charges against minors should be carried out by special appointed youth deputies. Now I'm also interested in whether all attorneys have such a fit at all? These should also be defectologists, or experts who know how to do the job, who are thus educated for such a sensitive area, because they should, of course, work with social care centres and schools, etc. The more you look at the preparatory procedures, the more we see in the reports how many requests are made for the preparatory procedure, the more that is actually the process that determines the facts that are very important for evidence of criminal offences, but also the circumstances in which such minors live. Therefore, I repeat a very specific area for which real experts should work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69044	The replica matches Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69045	Well, thank you. I didn't really have much to answer for. My colleagues, you're absolutely right. A dangerous social problem that knocks on our door. So he's not just exclusive to some big urban environments, rich cities. Unfortunately, I just want to find out through this that the danger has gone down and into the villages, and it has landed in poor areas. Obviously, the thing we're not controlling is enough and I'm afraid this danger doesn't get out of hand because if it appears in a primary school in a small rural environment, then I'm not surprised that it appears in the City of Zagreb or in some other large centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69046	Another replica, the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69047	Thank you very much. You're among the few, but I think you may be the only one you've mentioned in this report that's very important, and that's domestic violence. And thank you very much for that. I wanted to, but I'm running out of time. The number of people reported, you mentioned some examples, some parts of Croatia, some cities, what I want to warn you about in this problem, the big social problem, that the number of people reported from what we read in statistics doesn't have to mean, I believe that you agree, that in that area or in that city, people are the biggest bullies. It means they're the scariest family thugs. It's about sensitivity. So it's possible that people are reporting more, not only the victims of domestic violence but also the neighbors, friends, and that what often applies there is not your problem that will close and solve into four walls, so if a husband beats up a woman, I won't report it because that's how they'll get back together afterwards. So I believe you agree that this is about it, and it is a great social evil that we have not yet condemned enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69048	We're continuing an individual debate. It's time for the Honorable Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69049	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Attorney, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As a basic after reading the report, speaking of this report as a whole, I am of the opinion that with the work of the State's Attorney's Office in global affairs as last year we can be in principle satisfied. The report is mostly exhaustive, well structured and provides good views and insight into the work of the Croatian State's Attorney's Office. Introductoryly, the State Attorney's Office reports stress the need for an increased amount of material resources, as indicated by the skills and other activities, and also indicate the lack of space and information equipment although, of course, no state body is expected to praise that it needs no further modernisation and that it needs no further modernisation and that it needs to reduce the budget of these warnings, however, I would not have to take it lightly. Investment in better work of the State Attorney's Office can potentially give significant outputs both directly and indirectly. Some of the direct ones are listed in this report itself when it comes to slightly less than 100 million kunas already frozen assets that are likely to end up in the state budget, i.e. 200 million kunas already taken from the perpetrators of criminal offences. The indirect outputs are, of course, even greater because preventing and preventing the good work of the State's Attorney's Office can bring far greater benefits than what is invested. Some estimates of corruption in the Republic of Croatia speak of 10 billion kuna annually from such a phenomenon. And by the basis of these assessments and the fact that in the area of corruption crimes everywhere in the world, a large dark figure becomes clear that these figures on frozen assets are only the tip of the iceberg and, in principle, I repeat, should not regret effort and resources to try to achieve better results, which is, of course, a necessary additional investment. When we talk about this dark figure that it is extremely large in the area of corruption, the report prepared by the Department of Statistics and Research of the UN Office for Drugs and Crime and the Zagreb Economic Institute, so that 18% of citizens were directly or indirectly exposed to corruption experience with a public servant. At the same time, only 3.6% of citizens had such experience with a serious crime against property. And for crimes against property as I see it, more than 55,000 criminal charges have been filed in this report, while for crimes of corruption in a broader sense, unless I'm wrong about 2,000 criminal charges. A total of 516 applications were rejected, and 286 people were charged. From that data, I think it's quite clear that all the bodies of the state... will have to make far greater efforts to contain some of the corruption and abuse of the official position. The above indicators indicate that the dark number is still simply too large, that the social problem is still too far down to the neo-alarming number at all. When we talk about the criminal acts of corruption and abuse of the official position, it would be good to see more detailed information on the structure of these acts. For example, how much corruption is involved in public procurement or procurement procedures in the public sector. I remember once in the debate, counterpart Jelusic said that for the greatest possibility in corruption comes when they oppose the public and private, most often coming from public procurement procedures, entering into agreements on professional studies, agreements on different consaltins and similar transactions when it is concluded between the public and private sectors. Every one of us who even follows public procurement procedures on a superficial basis and pays attention to works paid from different public budgets is likely to have seen that a worrying number of these procedures are related to controversy and strange circumstances. In many cases, public procurement for official cars has been reported in the media, and the car brand that was to be obtained has not been specified. Because in public procurements, which won the lowest bid, which would then rise by 30, 40 and 50% due to the unforeseeable under quotes "out of cost or work". Any such case, I am an opinion, at least one who is publicly polarised in the media deserves special attention from the persecution body, which seems to me to be far too often lagging behind. The necessary measures are organisational, but normative, which will require greater attention from both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Finance. The truth in this report also emphasises the responsibility and the lower state's attorneys and points out that a slight increase in the application of organised crime and corruption does not maintain a real state of play and is stressed by the necessary taking of action to detect these acts particularly at regional and local level. It should therefore be pointed out that this requires further stronger efforts of the entire system and of the state's attorneys' offices, in particular municipal and county attorneys' offices. As regards these acts of corruption in a narrow and broad sense, I would refer to a part of the report on the work of the state's attorneys in the decisions on criminal cases. It therefore pointed out that the perception of adjudication is influenced by certain cases that have been brought to the public about which criminal charges could not be resolved within the expected deadlines. It does not specify exactly what criminal acts are involved, but I assume it is precisely the criminal acts of corruption. It is precisely to bring down the unscheduledness of the state's attorney's office, to remove speculation about political calculations in the conduct of criminal charges or the opportunistic avoidance of conduct in some high-profile procedures that I find very useful to specify in this work what types of criminal offences are involved and what are the causes of non-compliance with the deadlines. It also continued not to act in certain cases as a consequence of a measure of urgency and which. It is stated that such cases are specifically monitored and I believe that because of this and because non-treatment in such cases can cause a negative perception of the public, I believe that the following report will already contain such data. In general, it should be pointed out that the number of criminal charges has been reduced by more than 100 thousand or over 10% in large part, this should be noted thanks to the rationalisation of criminal law or the transfer of criminal prosecution for the criminal offence of the possession of intoxicating drugs in the criminal sphere. This therefore confirmed what was said here in the Assembly that changes in this direction would have a significant impact on the dispensation of courts and law enforcement bodies. I believe that further comparative experience and other countries will also serve as a template for further rationalisation in this field, but there it should be stressed that with measures such as measures. be a complete decriminalisation of certain substances such as marijuana should wait to see what some other countries have already gone in that direction. When I speak in general about the success of the state's attorneys, it should be noted that there is generally a large percentage of the convictions of 89% and the USKOK has even 94% of the convictions. It can be regarded as good information at first sight because it should point to a tall... and the professionality of the team in the state's attorneys' offices, but it may indicate a certain phenomenon to say, easily, to express zimmerism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, to process only those objects that are highly likely to be obtained, to play to say so quite safely. In a number of cases, this second case could be concluded in a particular report, which says that a large part of the liberating, refuting verdicts were therefore due to a change in the factual situation rather than to a misjudgement of the State's Attorney's Office. When we know as we have already established that in the area of corruption crimes there is an extremely high dark number and that the criminal procedure is initiated in a relatively small number of cases compared to that figure, we are concerned that such a good percentage of cases obtained does not necessarily have a positive indication. The role of the State's Attorney's Office is also largely to prevent it from acting frighteningly on potential perpetrators of criminal offences. This could happen, and I'm afraid that it happens that some of the highly profiled perpetrators of criminal acts behave quite casually, insolently, and insolently, because in the course of their actions, they wisely made sure that there were no clear and unequivocal traces of initiation. The crimes of corruption caused by billions of kuna damage at an annual level and even greater indirect damages are even greater, according to which the State's Attorney's Office should nevertheless take certain measures and when it is necessary to enter a small research area. If you want to dry the swamp, you have to put yourself at risk of getting wet and falling into the mud above your knees. Sincere and professional treatment in this direction will certainly not be assessed here in the Croatian Parliament by a negative assessment even if the outcome of success falls below these I would say perfect figures. Finally, I would agree with the assessment of the positive effects of the application of the Institute of Work for General Good where the decision under the agreement and the positive effects of these measures are far above potentially negative. Finally, I would say that this report shows that the state's attorney's office as a whole is one of the better elements of the judicial system, or... But there is a possibility of further improvements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69050	We're moving on to replicas. First of all, the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69051	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague invited me to a replica of your debate in the part where you mentioned public procurement and car shopping when you mentioned that certain public tenders were only missing the logo of the car, there were such public competitions where even the confused logo of the carhouse was, and even a little more data had escaped, there was no reaction even though it was a public company. But interestingly all the time we've been listening to the debate that's going forward this is good, this is good, every year it's getting better and better so I found it appropriate to read you a sentence from the 2009 State's Attorney's Office's work report, which means the debate in 2010. You have set an example of Sisak-Moslavina from which I come and I think already birds on the border sing about all the corruption affairs that are happening there, about buying advisors, about wastefulness, about conflict of interest at the end of which the relevant parliamentary committee ruled. It's relatively fresh and lasts all the last few years. It was debated here in 2010. And we have a full press column on it today, and where is the work of the State's Attorney's Office in the meantime, and what is the result of that work? I think this speaks for itself enough, but there will be more quotes that you believe me during today's debate, so you will see how you spoke to your own, not personally your club in previous years about the work of the same State Attorney's Office, nothing has changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69052	The answer to the replica Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69053	With that in the first part, when you looked back at these public tenders, I would agree that even if it were necessary to set up some special teams to check certain public procurement procedures in which there is doubt, at least the basics of doubt or reasonable doubt that there were some irregularities. There have been more than a few such cases, and it is obvious that there is a need for further shift in the area. I am in my debate, of course, and most colleagues in their debate stressed that it can always be better. But he wouldn't have agreed if there wasn't any results. I think that through the media we also follow the many procedures that have been carried out that have been very preventively acting safely in the area of corruption, we have also witnessed the statements of a number of how to tell entrepreneurs or people who have run large systems that have suddenly been worrying about this work of the State's Attorney's Office and have said that they are now, to God, prevented even in normal business. This means that the work of the State's Attorney's Office has been very preventive of them. You don't need to see things black and white. Every white one has a black one in every black one. So I would say that the white picture still prevails here but the improvements are always and certainly possible amongst others and you and I are one part where there is a possibility of improvements highlighted in your discussions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69054	Second replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69055	A colleague of yours has indeed been an expert, it seems that you have studied this report well, that you have talked about concrete things, and also about those movements that are necessary, which are necessarily highlighted when it comes to discussing these reports. What you have particularly apostrophe, and I think that the main problem is usually in the work of the State's Attorney's Office as much as the DORH does from morning till nightfall, and you will see whenever you pass there that the lights are on, but there's no cleaning lady, there's no cleaning lady to clean up, but they're doing state attorneys and state attorneys. Unlike what you're saying is that early cancer has remained the work of certain county attorneys and that's still a problem. We still have a problem with the fact that as much as the State's Attorney's Office is hierarchically structured, we have changed much under the pressure of the EU in many ways, in particular, the Law on the State's Attorney's Office has changed several times to increase their demand for an independent deputy state attorney at lower levels. So they're independent in conducting their case, but the problem is still what many environments are and where does that dissatisfaction that many MPs then, I'm also thinking in my best interest exactly on that one dissatisfaction because you say you should dry the swamp somewhere. That would be a minor problem. We have some environments and it's a big problem that you don't know where to start because everything is so networked up, that the swamp you bring the pump and dry it out. A networked, networked, cemented-armed concrete and should be penetrated to find some wires where the map tower will then be opened and broken. It's something I think is just waiting for the state's attorney's office and I think we should step up control in some county state's attorneys.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69056	The answer to the replica Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69057	Thank you. He would certainly agree because this is somewhat highlighted in this report by the state's attorney that there is a detected problem in municipal and county state's attorneys. It seems to me that everyone together should obviously appeal to the Ministry of Justice that we might change certain provisions of the State's Attorney's Law to establish a higher hierarchical structure and better discipline within the state's attorney's offices. Maybe that would be a good way to break those networked structures that obviously work on principle don't wave, don't touch me with mutual interests and relationships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69058	We're continuing the debate. Davor's Mlakar enlisted. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Ivan Simunović, he's gone, he's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labourists for the final 5 minutes on behalf of the Club Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69059	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Chief State Attorney. Here's a little short, I'm not gonna use all five minutes. The state's attorney is not an athlete, so let's celebrate and evaluate on the basis of the latest results in the last round. The State's Attorney General's report is not a stock exchange report, and that doesn't apply to stock exchange logic. An evaluation of the work of a state attorney is always and exclusively an assessment of his work in total. The current stock situation is only information. We're interested in the entire stock, the whole way, and this is about a long section that's had a lot of slips, hesitations and downfalls. That's what we're talking about today, ladies and gentlemen. We call on the state's attorney to enforce the law and to be just and lonely unless otherwise goes, as long as he enjoys the support of the current parliamentary majority of the alternative unfortunately does not exist. If anyone in this attempt to prevent him from any policy of any police being prosecuted by him, it's his duty. If in this case someone dejectes him and gives all of Croatia the knowledge of who he is and who he is or who the police are, it is the duty of a state lawyer, it is his legal and social role. That's exactly what the state's attorney, despite the obvious evidence, was not prepared to do during most of the mandates, which is exactly what we expected of him, which is why he did not meet our expectations. Here you have been all along reminding us that we need to talk professionally, specifically, and not about the state's attorney. These were the words of Mr. Zoran Milanovic in 2010. I repeat them today. So I didn't abuse your president, quote accurate, precise, and repeat that we're talking about here in the Parliament today. This is not a short race, this is a long stock, and everything we said today, we only said to make it better in Croatia, to make it better for society, and that the State's Attorney's Office is doing better for its job. We did not intend or want to go to a state attorney like Zoran Milanovic at any time and with any qualifications, I believe.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69060	The replica was reported by Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69061	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Vuksic, you mentioned that the state's attorney is not a sportsman who has a passing time. Well, I'll defuse you a little bit. Herbos workers from Sisak who in 1.2 definitely stopped working and the last 24 workers finished their working days at the factory. The first passing time in 2004 was reported to the State's Attorney's Office. Herbos workers, their trade unions, applied to the State's Attorney's office the second time in 2007. Third transitional time in 2012 a month after the bankruptcy, the bankruptcy proceedings of Herbos workers, their trade unions reported everything to the State's Attorney's office again. The result of Herbos running out and gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69062	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69063	Dear colleague Novak, you must not talk about individual cases, because if you do, you may also be able to protect a few workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69064	I'm asking the attorney general if he wants to take the final word? Yeah. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69065	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the House of Representatives and MPs, just a few words. I listened as carefully as last year's debate, your debate, and as you noticed some of you in this report and in the work for the following year, we are some of the shortcomings that we have seen or which you have seen or which you have observed or have constructively criticised in order to make it right. Of course, none of us, including myself personally in the State's Attorney's Office, are fully satisfied with the work performed by all 1700 employees, or 661 officials. Of course it's not good until the end and it can go better and better. Of course, the fact is that this depends not only on state attorneys, but also on legislative solutions that allow a state attorney to achieve the role that is intended for him. But not only the state's attorneys without the pretense to justify myself, without the pretense to justify myself taking responsibility. And as the State's Attorney General takes over in all respects of the State's Attorney's Office wanted a body of persecution, not a body of detection above all and its success depends primarily on the quality of police work, quality criminal charges, quality work of tax administrations, state inspections etc. etc. However, the State's Attorney's Office wanted or not to take over something that was not needed to be taken over and was at the center of the event. Okay. And the legislator rightly accepted an initiative that followed the change of the CAP as early as 2003 when a group was formed at the Ministry of Justice to change the CAP, which only changed in 2009 and 11th respectively. It took almost 10 years for the CAP to enter the scene that opened the space in accordance with all European standards that other countries in Europe, the same CAP, and we started doing it first, so we didn't make it until the ninth, or eleventh. And enabled tools that enabled state lawyers both better and more quality results than ever before. Of course that doesn't mean that these results couldn't have been even better, it will be safe. It also depends on the social climate, depending on people who truly want to submit applications, report, cooperate and make sure that we are serious and that we are able to process cases in relation to anyone. It is also true that I speak at national lawyers' meetings which is no secret that I am not satisfied with the part of the state's attorneys and the work in local self-government, i.e. the fight against corruption on local self-government. It is also true that I am looking for and working to make the Supervisory Department stronger and stronger and that the repression against those who do not work well within the system is more stringent and uncompromising, especially since the State Council has so far accepted all proposals for the resolution of the State's attorney, respecting the evidence and reasons why certain state attorneys, or deputies, cannot do the job for which they are appointed. These are all the things that are daily problems we solve, all in order for the State's Attorney's Office to achieve the role that it is intended for and indeed be the bearer of the fight against organised crime and corruption as the most important segment that we are now doing, of course, including war crimes proceedings. But what limits us, I think one of the MPs in his opening speech said respect for the evidence procedure, I would add, and the fact is that these are the only limiting factors that the State's attorneys hold in certain cases. So, no influence, no intervention, no nothing, but all I'm saying is evidence, proper procedures and facts that can be collected about the processing of certain objects. The current amendments to the CAP, in particular now last after the Constitutional Court's decision, will, in any case, enable or force better said state lawyers to be more transparent in their actions and to make decisions in accordance with the deadlines adopted by the constitutional decision or amendment of the CAP. Compared to a whole series of questions you asked in your debate, I will not, of course, be here today to answer each of you individually, but I will send each of you a letter explaining to you what we are in these concrete things that you have spoken of, or what we have not done, and what we should have done. I've noticed something about war crimes, which is that although we've been doing a lot of work here, it seems to me that we're not transparent enough or that people, MPs and public perceptions aren't such that it knows exactly what has been done even though we've been on our websites in detail reporting it, but I'm going to accept a suggestion and we're going to do it much more transparently in one place so that we can see exactly what we're doing, what we can do about all the crimes that happened in this area during the Homeland War. The database that someone mentioned today is a database that the State's Attorney's office was self-initiated, and that's one precious database where all literally all the facts are, all the documents that we've come to, either we, or the police, or any other, by searching the archives, etc., that speak of the crimes in the Homeland War. And that base contains all documents in one place and it will be a valuable base not only for persecution but also for all later analyses and all that will happen later and related to the Homeland War and is related to war crimes and conduct in these cases. In everything else, of course, after the phonogram and my notes, you will get an answer to individual questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69066	Thank you. We have one replica. Honorable representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69067	Thank you very much. So here's the final presentation you mentioned everything in your work that you're happy with, which you're not happy with, so you mentioned corruption at the local level and so on. Since today's talk has not touched the maritime well, I cannot mention again the case we have in Vodice, and probably in other units of local self-government by the sea. Objects built on maritime goods in 2003 have been sold neatly, and you have contracts on your benches since 2004 and in this report there is once again real estate, land and buildings in the area are in the status of the general good of external traffic and cannot be acquired property rights or other real rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69068	Will you respond to this replica? No, I don't. Okay, well, in that case, I'm closing the argument. We'll vote on the report when conditions are made for it. I thank Chief State Attorney Mladen Bajic. Report on the work of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for 2012. Here's to the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69070	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Last time we didn't vote on that report. I was interested in it then, the President of the Parliament said that the conditions had not been met. Now we're interested in the HDZ Representatives Club which changed since last Friday? I'm just asking you not to give me an answer that the business conditions have been achieved, but to explain exactly what this is about because the public is very interested. It is a very complex and demanding question where not only a procedural answer is not enough but it would be good for people to know what the political reasons are and what changed from last Friday to today. Given the way you do when it comes to the State's Attorney's report, I'm announcing that we will be restrained on this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69071	It's your right to be abstentioned and to vote whatever you want. I think the public is interested in whether we accept this report or not. The debate is closed. So we won't open the debate. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report on the work of the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. That's not good, there was one vote against. My colleague Mirela Holly voted against it. Please determine the correct result. We'll have to vote again. They warn me to be particularly correct. We have to vote again. So I ask who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. The conclusion was reached with 80 votes to one against and 25 abstentions. There's no objection to this result. And we move on to the next item of the agenda. - Half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy; the Croatian National Bank submitted this report on the basis of Article 62. The CNB law. You received a proposal for an act. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The esteemed governor of the CNB, Mr. Boris Vujcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69073	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable parliamentary representatives of ladies and gentlemen. Only briefly on half-yearly information on economic developments in the first half of 2013. After years of recession in Croatia, a stabilisation of economic domestic activity was recorded in the first half of 2013. In the first quarter of 2013, real GDP fell only slightly compared to the last quarter of the previous year, while in the second quarter the domestic product slightly increased by 0.2%. On the one hand, such a movement was favoured by a slightly more favourable movement in the euro area and the recovery of conditions in international financial markets, and on the other hand the beneficial one-time effects of Croatia's entry into the EU, i.e. the anti-cipulation of Croatia's entry into the EU itself. In the same period, the trend of a strong decline in the number of employees expressed in the second half of 2012. During the first half of 2013, consumer price inflation slowed significantly from 5.2% in January to 2% in June. The slowdown in inflation has contributed primarily to the reduction in import inflation pressures, i.e. primarily to a reduction in energy prices. The balance of the current balance of payments continued to improve, mainly maintaining a deficit in the factor income account. By that, I primarily mean lower profits from foreign-owned companies and banks. Stock exports decreased by 10.6% in the first half of 2013. During June, exports of domestic products to the CEFTA market were increased, meaning that our entry into CEFTA would then worsen the export conditions for part of the industry or sector. These are primarily exporters of milk products, of the container and of the meat industry and of the cigarettes producers. On the other hand, imports in the first half of 2013 increased by 1.2%. However, most of that growth was achieved during June, i.e. just before Croatia's entry into the EU due to a change in the anti-dumping change in trade conditions that will take place since 1.07, mainly increased imports of road vehicles due to the introduction of excise duties and increased significant imports of solar panels. In the first half of last year, the net inflow of capital from abroad was approximately at the level achieved during the same period of the previous year. The majority of net debt inflows of capital were achieved by state and credit institutions. During the first half, they invested abroad under more favourable conditions, which contributed to high liquidity in international financial markets. This, together with the high liquidity policy of the domestic monetary system implemented by the CNB, reflected the reduction of borrowing costs on the domestic market, the interest rates on the Treasury's accounts fell to the historical lowest levels and the reduction of interest rates on short-term and to a lesser extent to long-term bank loans was recorded in non-financial enterprises. At the same time, conditions of population financing remained unchanged. They are already under these favourable conditions of financing a significant dynamic lending has not been recorded and among the main limiting factors we can highlight the suppressed demand, fair standards of credit approval as a result of the other growth of poor loans which continues for the fifth consecutive year and delay the recovery of the domestic economy which also causes increased risk non-compliance. Despite the expansion of monetary policy, which the central bank has long sought to contribute to lower debt and recovery costs of the Croatian economy, the nominal exchange rate for the euro has remained stable and, as we always repeat, this represents in Croatian conditions of extremely high euroisation, the financial system a basic prerequisite for financial and macroeconomic stability in the country. At the same time, while maintaining exchange rate stability, the growth of the international reserves of the Republic of Croatia's total CNB gross international reserve rose to 784m euros during the first half-year, reached 12 billion euros at the end of June. The management of international reserves in the first six months of 2013 took place in conditions of low reference interest rates and increased uncertainty in financial markets, which also kept the contributions to state securities of developed countries dominated by the structure of the CNB's international reserves at historical levels as well as low levels. Therefore, they remained in place to strengthen, tightened investment definitions in individual countries and financial institutions in order to prevent credit risk from potentially leading to a fall in income or international reserves. The impact of unfavourable movements in the economic environment on the banking system in the first half of last year was reflected in a weaker credit active and further materialisation of credit risk. The long-term recession has resulted in a significant decline in bank profits and the impaired profitability of their business. In the first half of last year, the bank earned 1.3 billion kuna before tax, which is 41% less profit than in the first half of 2012. The decline in bank profits was primarily due to lower interest incomes from loans, particularly from loans given to enterprises and the increase in booking costs for losses in credit portfolios. The population's debt trend continued for the fifth year in a row. And during the observed period, the key impact on debt cuts had a decline in housing loans. The slight increase in total loans was mainly directed towards commercial companies in the form of credits for crafts and credits indicated and according to the state units sector. The absence of a stronger recovery of credit activity and the continuation of unfavourable economic movement have affected further deterioration of the credit quality indicator and the proportion of loans classified in risk groups b and c reached 15.1%. The share of b and c loans in the company sector increased significantly to 26.9% under the influence of credit growth of the mentioned risk groups in trade and construction activities. The payment of most of the profits achieved in the previous year has affected a slight drop in bank capital. At the same time, the total capital requirements have been reduced to a lesser extent, so the guarantee capital adequateness rate means some cornerstone of the stability of our banking system has fallen to 20.8% and the banking system in Croatia remains the most capitalised in the EU. Therefore, the appropriateness of the guarantee capital and of the high-performing capital and liabilities further maintain a satisfactory level and quality of that capital. In the area of public finances, there was a strong increase in the deficit by 5.6 billion kuna per year, and in the first half it was $12.6 billion. Thus, the total fiscal deficit has almost reached the planned amount for the whole of 2013 as a whole. The funds for the lack of funding are secured by new borrowings, continuing a strong rise in public debt. To conclude, although during the first half of last year, which this information refers to, some mildly positive movements have again confirmed that the problems we have been talking about for years and which should continue to be addressed, recovery will be a long one as forecasts show for 2014 and fundamentally limiting factors for improving competitiveness and creating conditions for growth of the potential GDP growth rate are structural conditions, i.e. the release of domestic entrepreneurial investment potential. Again, we can stress that investments must precede any recovery in Croatia as personal consumption is a function of the unemployment rate and movement of the available income for which we do not expect to improve in a short time that public spending is limited by the excessive deficit procedure and that the export sector depends primarily on recovery in our main countries to external trade partners, of which Germany is the main and subsequent restructuring of exports, partly due to changes in operating conditions with CAEFTA compared to the EU. I can only repeat that the basic reforms that need to be continued are those in the direction of improving the business climate that must create a competitive and stimulating business environment in order to improve the primary efficiency of markets and goods where we are most strongly concerned with agricultural policy costs, direct foreign investment rules where some significant reforms occurred in 2013, scales and impacts of taxes, market domination and anti-monopoly policy, labour market efficiency, labour law and investor protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69074	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected counterpart, Hrvoja Nekic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69075	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the governor with assistants, respected colleagues and colleagues. As only the name says, half-yearly information on economic developments consisting of a series of numerical table and graphic displays in this direction will go my debate. So as for the first half of 2013, we can say that there was a stabilisation of domestic economic activity that occurred after the years of its reduction. In a mild recovery in the second quarter, a slightly more favourable movement in the euro area and the recovery of conditions in international financial markets as well as Croatia's recent entry into the EU, as well as the use of fiscal cash registers, which increased the statistical turnover in trade and catering and increased the country's revenues. As regards limiting factors affecting stronger and stronger economic recovery, there is further a weak competitiveness that should be strengthened by comprehensive structural reforms aimed at improving investment and business conditions in export-oriented activities. Real GDP fell by 0.1% in the first year of 2013 compared to the last quarter of 2012 under the influence of reduced exports while in the second quarter it slightly increased by 0.2% due to the growth of all aggregate demand components. As regards employees, therefore, the number of persons employed increased in the first half of 2013 and the trend of a strong fall of employees occurred in the second half of 2012. The unemployment rate in the first half of 2013 was on average 17.3%, with its relative improvement from 18.1% to 1st to 16.5% in 2 as at the administrative rate. A quarter. Monetary policy has continued to focus on supporting the high liquidity of the banking system, which confirms its expansional orientation. The course of the domestic currency towards the euro remained stable, resulting in the country's basic preconditions for financial stability. During the first half of 2013, consumer price inflation slowed significantly from 5.2% in January to 2% in June. The balance of the current balance of payments continued to improve during the first half of 2013 and it increased by 0.3 billion euros compared to the same period of the previous year, while its relative annual indicator rose from below 1% of GDP to 0.8% of GDP. Gross foreign debt increased by 1.2 billion euros in the first half of 2013 and ended in June at 46.2 billion euros and 104.9% of GDP achieved in the last 4 quarters. The total international reserves of the CNB with an increase of 784.6m euros during the first half-year reached 12 billion euros at the end of June, while the net international reserves increased by 264.8 billion euros to 10.5 billion euros in the first half of 2013. Therefore, in the first half of 2013, consolidated general government revenues decreased by 0.7% year-on-year, mainly due to the decline in income from income tax and social contributions while VAT revenues had the greatest positive effect on the movement of total revenues. The cost of consolidation of the general government including the acquisition of non-financial assets increased by 8.5% compared to the previous year. Mostly because I think it's important to stress the recovery of debts in health care. So on the one hand, we have a slight income reduction while on the other hand we have relatively strong expenditure growth and this is due to an increase in the overall fiscal deficit at the annual level. As regards banks in the first half of 2013, the banks achieved 1.3 billion kuna profits from operations that will continue before tax, which is 40.8% less profits than in the first half of the previous year. ... decreased by 0.6% and... 3.5%. The decline in bank profits was primarily due to lower interest incomes from loans, particularly from loans given to companies and the increase in booking costs for losses in credit portfolios. The reasons for their increase were the payment of loans or the growth of loans that cannot be fully charged, and then the increased caution in taking the risk resulting from a mild loan growth of 2% effectively and a higher level of less risky placements. The additional impact on the slight change in credit had a lack of their more sensitive growth in large banks mainly due to a decrease in the debt of the population. In the population, the borrowing trend continued for the fifth year in a row, and in the observed period the key impact on debt reduction had a decline in housing loans. The slight increase in total credits was mainly directed towards commercial companies in the form of credits for crafts and trade unions, and according to the state units sector. The absence of a stronger recovery of credit activity and continuation of unfavourable economic movements affected further deterioration of the credit quality indicator, so the share of loans classified in risk groups B and C reached 15% at the end of June. Moreover, the share of B and C loans in the company sector to 26.9 has increased significantly, therefore, 27% mostly under the influence of the growth of the loans of the mentioned risk groups. Finally, I will say that on behalf of the SDP Club, I will support this half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of achievement, the stability of prices and the implementation of monetary policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69076	We have a single replica reported. Dear Kresimir Bubalo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69077	Thank you very much, Vice President. I know that counterpart Nekic was tasked with defending this CNB report on behalf of the SDP club. But the report has just seen a deficit in the first six months of last year of $12.6 billion. I find it inappropriate to defend this health care deficit. The figures say he was rehabilitated last year, but the same thing happens this year. We can already say at the beginning of the second month of 2014 the same amount is needed for a new resolution of the health care of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore believe that the funds spent last year, which increased the deficit from $12.6 billion, came to 17 billion at the end of the year, I believe that it did not bear fruit. Therefore, the HDSSB club clearly says that we do not have a policy in health care, that we do not have one continuous policy and that we do not have a health strategy as well as all segments of economic life. That's why there's such a deficit of 17 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69078	The replica corresponds to Hrvoje Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69079	Dear colleague Bubalo, now we can theoreticalize here and discuss whether it's justified, if it isn't, whether the health debt recovery has affected the deficit or not. The fact is that the money went into health care recovery and the fact is it felt on the state budget as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69080	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed Ivan Shuker will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69081	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Vice President. I see there's been a flight change, Mr. Governor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In order to avoid confusion, the HDZ Club considers this to be quality materials such as all materials coming from the CNB. Therefore, in order for what I will later say to the CNB's connotation not to go in one completely different direction, and that is my colleagues and colleagues I would like to discuss this material to you both and myself on behalf of the HDZ Club and personally ask how much it makes sense to discuss this material today. You heard from the introductory part of the governor that are some grades that have nothing to do with where Croatia is today and that simply points to something else. In such turbulent times, we in Croatia each such document that we discuss with a longer, apart from a month is a dog story. I would be the happiest if we had so much political courage, so much political intelligence is that today all the clubs met and we simply wrote five sentences and read them here and said "we will not make fools of ourselves, and we will not first of all make fools of those who pay us and choose us from Croatian citizens". And that would be correct if we did. However, counterpart Nekic was in an unspeakable situation, such as any representative from the ruling coalition defending something that is impossible. Because you, I also understand that the governor has read what is written here even though I would be far happier since I highly appreciate my colleague Vujičić that he has ignored this story and has presented his assessment and assessment of where Croatia is today. And I would give him my first round of applause and I think it was even in a certain way his duty as governor of the Croatian National Bank regardless of what we are talking about for a reason. And now I'm going to start reading and I'm going to transfer you today. Look, he says in the first half of 2013 there was a stabilisation of domestic economic activities. Look, the stability of domestic economic activity that led us to a 1% gross domestic product decline at the end of the year. So we're talking about this. Let's move on. A strong increase in deficits has been achieved in the area of public finances, driven by an increase in expenditure leading to a rise in public debt. Look, it's not a 10. 15% public debt growth, it's actually a 10. 15% deficit growth. It's not a growth in public debt by 2 or 3 percentage points, but it's a 65, 6 percent growth in deficits compared to what was predicted by projections, actually, which was foreseen by the budget that we adopted here. And we do not know at this time whether the share of the public debt in gross domestic product is 61, 62, 63, 64%, in fact, with the methodology and that this whole pre-price settlement story and strong stories about the reduction of the 14 billion cash flow of the Republic of Croatia in the Republic of Croatia, these 14 billion did not come in or out, but was administratively prescribed. And now we're going to see how the Brussels administration is going to count on it for us in the future. So, so much for that. In the first quarter, real GDP decreased by 0.1 compared to the last quarter, while in the second quarter it slightly increased by 0.2%. It was all your statistical makeup, but in the third quarter, it couldn't make up anymore, and it couldn't be spoken in the framework of a statistical error, because by all indications, did you write that your decline is 0.2% or your growth is 0.2% important to you nothing will change, but psychologically this 0.2 in the plus works better. So, colleagues and colleagues today, we are in excessive deficit measures. How are we going to have to resuscitate him we don't know yet because the question is whether what the government has proposed will be accepted in Brussels? So, Croatia is currently at a deficit somewhere around 20 billion kuna. And such a deficit in the history of the Croatian state has never been. It's never been such a deficit, it's a fact. What we should also say today is that we have 382 or 381.5 thousand unemployed. This is compared to the end of this period for which the report is submitted almost 30 thousand more. Unfortunately, the trend will also be negative by the end of February and the question is which number to stop at. And what will be our 2014 depends on how high our starting position will be. Last year, our starting position was about tens of thousands of unemployed less than it is now, so you saw that in the biggest echo and greatest demand for seasonal workers in the summer months we failed to get below 320 thousand unemployed. But in addition to all this, what is not mentioned here is that, which happened after 30.06, it is that some and the banks began to get in trouble. Among other things, one bank fell and it all cost the state budget, not the state budget, but the Agency for the Protection of Savings Roles of Citizens somewhere around a billion kunas, so for these two banks. And when we talk about banking activity, when we talk about banks, then we cannot ignore that the credit rating is reduced to Croatia at the beginning of this year. And the governor was talking about historically low interest rates on the vault records. Well, low interest rates are because banks and those with some money in Croatia simply don't have money and what to place and bought vaults in, better than not having any income. And that was why interest rates are so low because otherwise, by all these movements, unfortunately interest rates wouldn't be like that. So we can say this or that, so all I'm saying is not about the CNB, it's about us. This report is a passe and I at all, even propose that we not vote on this report on Friday, but simply take it into consideration because this report has nothing to do with the situation currently in Croatia. Unfortunately, this situation of o-ho-ho is worse and Croatia's perspective on this all together is unfortunately worse than is indicated here for the first 6 months. Why? So because everyone expected that in 2014 we would leave the recession, that there would be positive economic trends, but because of the excessive deficit measures and because of all the problems in which Croatia is presently likely to present a report for the first 6 months of 2014, this opening part would be worse than it is now. Why? Because with this report a year ago we had a year ahead of us and we all expected that the second part of the year would have positive trends, positive movements without anyone talking about negative movements in 2014. And by reading today, and unfortunately this is the only way for us MPs from the opposition to come up with some material about what the Central Bank is thinking and thinking about to reduce the deficit of the state budget and for state finances to look a little different from my own personal thinking, and so I can say some experience is that without some tighter string, no matter how much someone will say that this is not so legally between the Government and the Central Bank, Croatia will find it difficult to extricate from this situation where it is. Why? Well, because my colleagues and colleagues at 12 months, we record a 2.8% drop in industrial production. And as long as we have that negative data all these other stories are empty stories. And one of the reasons why Croatia is the last country to come out of recession is among other things the terrible bad structure of the Croatian economy. We're practically almost out of production at this point, and it's very difficult at this point to encourage something to change that trend. And even that positive trend and the positive swing that was to be reflected due to Croatia's entry into the EU has dropped due to excessive deficit measures. We will unfortunately have what it is. Now, colleagues and colleagues, when you look at this CNB report, when you look at what it's been whispered to us to say so by the government and with what estimates and finally what it did to us and at the time of adoption of the 2014 Budget, even though we all knew it couldn't happen then they told us that we would have economic growth next year of what, 1, 1.2%. Now the government projections are at the level of what's being said here, which is that we're going to have an economic growth of 0.2%. If the government wrote that, then make sure that at the end of the year we are with a horizontal line ahead, no matter what the amount of economic growth is. And now that I'm no longer smart, and I don't owe this material any longer because I don't want to hurt the people who did this material first, I'm talking from the position of the parliamentary representative, this is just funny what's happening to us. Discussing something that has nothing to do with life and what has nothing to do with reality. These are statistics that have passed as well as colleagues and colleagues I urge you not to vote on this report on Friday but to take it to the attention of the governor and his associates for coming today and for making us this quality material only I would be happy if we had it last year in the seventh month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69082	Thank you. The report I think has to do with reality at the time when it was made and according to the Law on the Croatian National Bank that report must be presented in law. But you guys have been talking for ten minutes, and you have six more replicas. Cresimir Bubalo, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69083	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, you said in your speech earlier that you'd be happier if he'd given an assessment yesterday where we are today. Well, it's very hard for the governor to give the governor an assessment of where we are today if we're discussing the report in the first six months of last year. But what's much more important for the HDSSB is where we are tomorrow and more importantly how we're going to get out of the crisis and what's the contribution of the CNB to get out of the crisis. But I think it's much more important for Croatia's debt management strategy because these days we've been given the bench answer to Mr. Tudjman for the state of debt of the general state in the past, so when we look at the 99th, the total debt of the general state was 47 billion kuna and today we're at 200 billion kuna. That only in the last two years has the debt increased to nearly 45 billion kuna, or when we look at the share of the general government's debt in gross social product at the end of 2008 where it was 29.3%, and today we passed 60%, then with a report from 30.60 last year, we expect to get answers today and get CNB proposals and suggestions on Croatia's exit from the crisis and their contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69084	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69085	Thank you very much. Comrade Bubalo, that was why I initially fenced myself in the direction in which my debate would take place in relation to this report. So just appreciating both the experience and the knowledge of fellow Vujčić and his associates I think it would be, I hope that he will do it in the final word, I think it would be better if we had talked about what the situation is today and I'm also glad that you mentioned this level of public debt, so I've been here a few times in the assembly saying that we are adopting documents that define our public debt, and that's exactly where you can see how much debt has been owed to the state. However, since that bickering as much as we have generally come to 200 and a few billion kunas and unfortunately what is the situation this figure will come to by 230, 240 billion kuna, but the key thing is that here is already the second month we do not know which direction this government is going to go in, and definitely the budget as it is without measure, and this harsh measure of this government leads us to a 20 billion deficit this year and the question will give us enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69086	Ante Babic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69087	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you said it was a dog to talk about the 2012 report in 2014 but either you forgot maybe it actually became a practice in this Assembly, remember yesterday here's the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, today's talk about the State's Attorney's report and the report on the Croatian Council's programme, then the Croatian Foundation for Science and so on. But you were talking about the role of the CNB today and one of the tasks among others and the role of the CNB is to establish and implement monetary and foreign policy. But what you did not say in the report, which is actually the CNB given the bad economic situation you were talking about, knowing that all economic indicators are negative for monetary policy. Could she do better if she could do more today under these circumstances? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69088	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69089	Now, if I were to say everything I think it wouldn't be good, but I still think this report, to discuss it at this point, is a dog. Did the CNb do enough or not, maybe if we're already talking about this report, maybe it's not enough to look back at this model a, b and c. Why? Because that's how to say it in a certain way stupidly say a joint project but a project in which the CNB took part by firing certain funds to business banks. Then get a radio model on credit. Perhaps the analysis of this model b i c clearly explains the problem of the Croatian economy, that the Croatian economy is low-capital, that unfortunately most companies cannot get credit and they can practically not compete in any commercial terms. But it's good to talk about vault records and historically low interest, that's what the state is in charge of practically in the short term for some day-to-day liquidity. However, the key problem is when we talk about interest rates on Croatian businessmen, how much interest the Croatian citizens are, and by all accounts the Croatian state is in the long term because we cannot say that in terms of Croatia's entry into the EU and when many EU members today have a far lower interest rate than Croatia, then I think it is simply one amount to be talked about when the report is being discussed. We can't say that the interest rate of 6, 25, which was followed by the debt of the Republic of Croatia, is something that we can be happy with in Croatia because for years we've been told that we have such a high interest rate because we are in negotiations, which, like this, was the logical thing at the time that we finished negotiations to at least two percentage points down the interest rate. Unfortunately, however, this did not happen to us. We were reduced three times by a credit rating at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69090	Srdjan Gjurkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69091	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, we are often discussing topics from 2012 and we have received information here about 6 months last year which is realistically one of the most pressing reports on something that is extremely important in Croatian and public finances, monetary policy, price stability, which is not what you said best in practice, and this is an extremely good report, so I don't know why you and you said it yourself is a good report and you say it's funny to discuss it. We all know very well, and especially to those of us here in this House we are discussing all topics of particular interest, of course, are we all interested in the fact that economic development is important in Croatia that we have both the foundations and the foundations and the documents based on which we compare certain times of certain policies were those economical or monetary. And that is why this report is extremely important is that this report is the last thing that was done and worked until we were a full member of the EU and all the next six-month reports that we will get from the governor of the CNB will be very well comparable, and in itself if you compare this report and the report for the last 6 months of 2012 you see certain shifts, you see certain relationships that are extremely important to know at all about the state and reality in monetary policy, finances and the rest. The current situation cannot essentially be said to be turbulence, it is complex in itself but all the measures that the CNB and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are quite clear, transparent and obviously as you said it is not known what will happen in 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69092	Thank you. The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69093	All these government measures have led us to a 20 billion deficit, that's the only truth. We can talk about this any other way you want. You see, unlike those of you who compare this report to the report of the other 6 months 2012, I tried to combine this report with available macroeconomic indicators at the moment. So let me tell you again, economic growth for 2013 falls over 1% at this point we have about 380 thousand unemployed. And what's the biggest problem with our employment last year fell somewhere by 70 grand. Our decline in industrial production was 2.8% at 12 months, the share of public debt in GDP is around 62.63%. What else would I tell you, our credit rating fell 15 days ago, so the logical thing is if I'm discussing this report that I'm comparing it to what it is today, not what happened a year and a half ago. So that's what I'm talking about. And it's not a problem in this report at all, so I said it at the beginning, but the problem is that in times like this, all these indicators, unfortunately, mean nothing to us. They will remain recorded as such, all of these indicators have been recorded somewhere, perhaps there are several original data prior to all regarding the banking sector and the situation in which the CNB alone has no one else, but all other indicators we could extract from any website whether from the Statistics Office or anywhere. That's why I said I don't understand why we're discussing this report. And that's my thinking because I repeat 382 unemployed and 20 billion deficits don't give us the right to discuss something that's completely over time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69094	You're a replicator.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69095	Thank you. Well, you said in your debate that GDP growth of 0.2% in the second quarter of 2013 was actually statistical makeup. I will remind you that you have taken advantage of every opportunity and you and your colleagues to remind us of the current authority that in 2011 you left our country in an incomparably better condition, let's put it that way. And that's what you argued at the time with the very fact that in the 2nd act, I and the 3rd quarter of 2011 GDP grew by 0.6%. So that growth of 0.6% in 2011 in two quarters was economic growth then, and now you ignore these 0.2%, so you minorize and call it statistical makeup. I don't think that's correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69096	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69097	If it's said here that in the first month it was 0.1, actually in the first quarter of the second quarter of the year, we have definitely at the end of the year that it's going to be a 1% drop, then you've now admitted yourself that this government is leading a catastrophic policy because if we came to the third and fourth quarter because if you add up minus 0.1 and plus 0.2 you mean for the first 6 months you get to an economic growth of 0.1%, and at the end of the year we have a 1% drop, then the economic policy of this government is catastrophic, which in the 3rd and 4th trimester threw us down to an economic downturn of over 1%, so I'm telling you about it. But I didn't want to tell you in such a rough way, but you just made me do it. And look and now that story has led us to the 20 billion deficits and up to 380 thousand unemployed and to the loss of 70,000 jobs. These are facts, and we can look at statistics one way or another, but whenever you say that 0.3. 0.4% of GDP calculations are within the limits of statistical errors. Well, if that's what hit you, I apologize for that, but the result at the end of the year is that for me, not for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69098	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69099	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Schuker statistics say that at this point, 380 thousand 437 people are unemployed in the Republic of Croatia, and when you say that we should return to reality from what the governor was saying, people are probably rightly wondering if we haven't already heard it somewhere because we are late to discuss not only this item of the agenda but also many numerous reports. You mentioned the translator, so I would say that perhaps the translator should be for us all and for the unusual moves of the government when they say that they are doing more than any government so far and translated into the language of the present is becoming less and less economic investment and more unemployed. I will remind you only of the economic and fiscal policy guidelines presented in September so for 2014-2016 where reforms are said to be carried out and the most significant reforms in health care, social care, pension insurance, etc. We're always saying that something is being resolved and solved, and that's how it was in these guidelines, and then I'm going to ask you if it's savings or rehabilitation or health reform with the latest example in the Chakovez hospital where it's so much savings, imagine that patients have to come with them when they come to the hospital and bring toilet paper. I don't think we need to talk statistics here. This is reality, and I think we all need to think about it, and maybe it would be good if Mr. Governor could somehow go to our prime minister and bring him back to reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69100	We've already said so many times that the replica is on display. My colleague Shuker wasn't talking about hospitals, or the Prime Minister, or... The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69101	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Glavak just expanded my exposure, so she said exactly how unemployed she was. 380473 or five as much as you said to the Sun. However, it is very interesting that colleagues Glavak look at what those responsible for this data are and it is not the governor and his associates, but at the time for which this report relates, what is the maximum amount of unemployed. 350,000 was what Mont Everest was for that story, but as we can see now, even 380,000 is not a big deal. And why was I talking about the 20 billion deficit? For the simple reason until we get a budget rebalance, therefore given the health situation, given the unpaid certain subsidies from last year, and later we will discuss 2012 support, it is also such a very up-to-date report that the Government this year, so without budget rebalance, cannot end with a deficit of less than 20 and a few billion kunas. It's facts and it's the truth. Now, what will happen to government measures, what they will do on the expenditure side, which chemistry will do on the revenue side to try to convince Brussels that it will reduce that deficit, that is. But there's something else, my colleague Glavak. It's not clear to me if someone managed to solve everything in 2011, in fact, in 2012 managed to solve all the inconsistencies that he inherited from HDZ and then went with his famous policy and then in 2013 came to the deficit of 17 billion kuna. Well, those are terrible successes. They are only the successes of those who are finally after those who have done nothing before, but like to boast of the pride of those before them, which are those who have completed the negotiations to join the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69102	Ante Jerolimov, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69103	Comrade Shuker, here you are talking about a lot of numbers and statistical indicators that we've heard here today, and you've been saying something about them, too. But what hides behind every number? Hide people, hide people's fates, hide the disastrous economic policy of this government. And what is going to happen to an average citizen or viewer of this debate today, all these powerful indicators when he lives badly every day, unemployment is how you said yourself, you've reached the number of 380,000 unemployed and we say it so easily. But if we stop and think behind each figure, there's one human destiny, there's one family that's not going to feed some big and wise words, but that need to create new jobs, attract investment and strengthen exports, not imports. Comrade Shuker, as a scientist, is the only economic policy in this country this repressive fiscal policy? Should monetary policy and be an integral part of economic policy not be conducted? Is it not in the interest of the CNB as soon as possible to take measures to help heal the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69104	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69105	Well, I'll go with this last one. The CNB tried to do some things. However, fellow Jerolimov of these 380,000 unemployed are not interested in this debate at all. We're fighting here now, which was from the year 1.1 to 30.6.2013. They are not perfectly interested in it, and they are not particularly interested in those who at that time had such a job and received wages. They don't care about that much. And as the deputy governor, for instance, my lord governor, excuse me and his deputy and vice governors could make this report when at the moment when, or for this report, the time period relating to, say, the rate for hospitality was 25%. Then someone remembered and dropped to 10%, so the Croatian National Bank made this report. And now if that report traveled there from the Stock Exchange to St. John's Square. Mark, that rate jumped to 13%. Here's what it's like for us CNB colleagues to attack for this and for the time when the wise men in the government are so enchanting that it's simply a dear god who can't follow. And therefore, I repeat my colleague, dear these 380,000 unemployed, I simply cannot accept that we are spending their money and that we are wasting our time discussing something that is... So, it was the intention of my debate on behalf of the club, but by repeating that the material was made in quality so that no one's irresponsible and inaction would be transferred to those who did their job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69106	But your argument that you said was unnecessary took about 35 minutes. Kresimir Bubalo on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69107	Dear Vice President, honoring the governor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy. Looking at this report that my colleague Shucker said was really well done but for the first six months, and with us, the situation changes from day to day. I'm sure he's not reading the current reality. But here I want to look back on behalf of the HDSSB Club on this report, on the figures, but also on the content. By clearly looking at the first six months then we can also look back at the macroeconomic environment that stabilizes where the slow exit from the crisis is evident. But it is also evident that Croatia is sinking deeper and deeper into the crisis, and all macroeconomic elements are really bad, and we can see that with the end of the year or 31.12. But here we are looking and the work we recently had the Report and the CNB, seeing that according to this report, people from the CNB have become statisticians, but it is important to just be co-creators of both monetary and fiscal policies and to give their suggestions. And particularly important suggestions are how Croatia gets out of the crisis. But it is evident from this report that we have less and less investment, especially foreign investments. So we're wondering if economic diplomacy did anything or did nothing to make someone invest in the Republic of Croatia. Either our tax systems and all other systems that need to help investors invest in the Republic of Croatia are really bad compared to our environment, so investors opt for some neighbouring countries. But also looking at the consumer basket of our citizens, which is getting smaller and smaller, it also states that price stabilisation in the macroeconomic environment of especially energy, is certainly affecting inflation itself. But what worries us in the HDSSB is that credits in group B and C classification are getting worse, and we usually know that banks clean balances from 31.12 each year, to estimate that the situation is worse. Usually, the classification of the banking sector is clearly shown at the end of the year and looking at the group B and C classification is certain to read that our bank portfolio is getting worse. So we're wondering what's going to turn out to be the 31st 12th? Because good bankers know that usually the National Bank controls reports from 31.12.200 and then adapts to reality and cleans up its balance sheet. Also in Croatia is the apparent deleveraging of banks but it is also evident that Minister Linic announces the income tax on interest these days. It's probably the reason banks say they have enough deposit cards, and banks are slowly decomposing in queens. But it is evident that many non-residents are saving in the Republic of Croatia. It is the same question for both the National Bank and Minister Linic for what he plans with non-residents, and how does he plan to tax non-residents? Also looking at the deposit mass of the Republic of Croatia, it is visible that it is falling but we estimate in the HDSSB with new interest income taxes that will continue to fall. And it's clearly a signal that it's probably been requested by the banks because they estimate that credit activity as well as the economy in the coming time will be much weaker than our desired activity but also much weaker than the previous activity. In Croatia, looking at personal consumption, personal consumption is falling but national consumption is growing. The question is, has the government been able to do anything in these two years, and when we ask ourselves that question, we certainly offer an answer. The government could very well cut state spending, many of these positions in the budget that could have been cut in the past period, and when we see that the budget alone increased the government budget by 22% in 2014 compared to 2013 then clearly read politics that the government did not want to cut in the last two years. And when you don't cut yourself, you can't even set an example for others. There were also a lot of words earlier about the number of unemployed who are growing from day to day, but in order to try to picture the report from 30.06. where there were 344 thousand unemployed and just before said by colleague 380 thousand and 437 unemployed, then to make it easier for them to put that picture before their eyes when we were talking about the Croatian Parliament I was just checking the capacity of the Maksimir stadium. He's 38 900 viewers stopping. So the number of unemployed in the Republic of Croatia from this report that the National Bank has compiled has increased by one filled-in Maximic Stadium. Now that's a picture that the government should have in front of its eyes every day as well as the resolution ministers, as we do when we discuss these reports, but also when we discuss all those measures that need to help new employment, which should help create new real jobs. Therefore, this report reads these 344 thousand unemployed but only one maximum stadium that has been filled over the past six months clearly speaks of one bad policy, one missed policy, a policy that needs to be changed. Looking at the interest expenditures of the central state that are increasing year after year, I'm afraid we're entering a whirlwind. However, in this Croatian Parliament, I believe that there is a need to debate very closely on the debt management strategy of the Republic of Croatia and that we need to bring a consensus in this representative body. However, I believe that instead of these reports from 30.06. last year, Croatia's estimates should also be developed in the coming years with a clear plan, but also a plan for managing Croatian debt. Because I am afraid that when the European Commission takes the view that our interest will increase and we are witnessing a decline in the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia in the last two years of interest increases and that the expenditure of the central state will, in the coming years, only grow if we do not start cutting the expenditure side and if we do not stabilise the business of the Republic of Croatia. Looking at the deficit that was said earlier, the deficit for the first six months was higher than projected at that time for the whole year, it was 12.6 billion. We've reached 17 billion. This year is an estimate of the new 17 billion, but I'm afraid there will be 20 billion kuna this year with the same problems that occurred last year. From what is said in our health care to all other segments of society where it does not care within the frameworks, where SDP's responsibility can no longer be transferred to previous authorities, HDZ authorities. Thus, the transfer of responsibility does not lead to happiness and success of the Republic of Croatia but rather clear policies that must change because we see equal policies and competitions here which will make more debt in their period. Just before I talked about what Mr. Tudjman got in response these days, the state of debt of the general state at the end of the period and when we look at the period and the war and the tax and the takeover and all those obligations from both the London and the Paris Club of the Republic of Croatia, the state of debt and the general state at the end of the 99th period have 47 billion kuna. Looking at the end of 2003, we had 81 billion kuna, so we can only say 32 billion kuna, and then we come at a time when economic growth was in 2004 by the end of 2007 where only the 7 billion kuna debt grew. It was one time to stabilize but economic growth. But when we look at the period 2008-2011, it increased exactly that 55 billion debt and when we look at the period from the beginning of 2012 to today it grew by a new 45 billion. These are questions that need to be answered, these are issues that solutions should be offered. And looking at exactly the share of the general government's debt in gross social product at the end of 2008 it was 29.3% and now we come to 63%. This clearly rings the alarm bell, a bell that says Croatia cannot spend more than it has, a clear bell that policies must change and that we must finally be responsible for what we do. However, in Croatia and for borrowing and not returning not the principal but also interest in these 20 years, no one in Croatia has responded. Also looking at this report, credit activity is getting weaker and we estimate in the next time that it will be even weaker because those who have funds do not invest, let alone those who need to borrow messages that are sent clearly that they have carved fear into the bones of our entrepreneurs, our owners and those who want to invest. Looking at the goods exports for the first six months he was falling but also importing us is growth, we see that our wishes don't come true when we talk about our exports but we also see that those contracts that apply to CEFTA have done us much harm. By the first seventh, we were all focused on the use of the European Funds, and that is not what is happening. Simply Croatia will pay more membership fees than withdraw funds. All those words and comforts and encouragements that came that the 1.7 would be better indeed do not happen. We see this by all macroeconomic elements relating to the period following this report. What we can congratulate the National Bank on taking care of capital adequateness, I'm glad it's really big but it's much more important that the bank balances are clean and will be clean when the economy is stable, when the economy is better. Before Croatia are the problems you said earlier, those are the words of the governor. The recovery will be due and we certainly need to cut it short and we will cut it short with new measures, we will cut it short with the growth of the economy, but also by reducing the excessive deficit. Surely, by looking at this balance, the reduction of the excessive deficit and our consumption in Croatia is limited precisely by deficits or excessive deficits and limits that we will have. It'll be a problem for us in the next time. They're negative movements. Therefore, the CNB must also make its contribution to getting out of the crisis but responsibility can no longer be transferred. Therefore, this report, which is certainly better than the report of the other six months, clearly indicates that Croatia has only had negative trends in the past two years and that it is simply our wishes but probably also Croatian Government wishes are not reflected in reports that tell us that these wishes are not met, that in Croatia the situation is getting worse. I therefore think that the CNB has also come to propose new measures and to talk in the Croatian Parliament about what is coming not only in 2015 but also in the next period and when we talk about the EU financial framework 2014-2020. Therefore, by looking at this report, the HDSSB Club can say that it is good because it is statistics but what is much more important, it is the creation of monetary fiscal policy in another form than it has been so far. I know when it comes to monetary policy that we have restrictions. We can still print money, but it will probably stop in 2017.We may expect the governor's reply, so Croatia should be prepared for that period after 2017 or 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69108	Srdjan Gjurkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69109	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, you have tried very hard to point out that the situation is nothing and that nothing is done about it. Of course we don't expect anything else from you but just a flat-rate score because that's how it's been so far. But you're forgetting one fact. When you talk about the unemployed and you cry about it, both you and the HDZ club, that we've found more than 40,000 workers in 38 thousand legal persons and that in a larger one, it was even in the ninth month. prior to pre-banking deals means 38 thousand legal persons, 41 thousand unemployed in blockades for more than 360 days and 25 thousand workers in craftsmen in 34 thousand craftsmen also in the blockade. We had 205,000 workers in quotes who didn't receive any salary at all, 44 billion mutually blocked accounts. It was a year and three months ago, it's shrinking, it's being solved. You know that with the pre-supervised deals one part of 2/3 went into the company's liquidation, and one third was saved and a space for further development opened. When we talk about CNB's monetary policy here in this report, when you read it, it clearly states what policy is that expansion policy, price stability and ensuring the liquidity of the banking and stability of the system and all the measures that are to encourage the economy are also written in this report. So it's still a flat rate, and this government is doing reform, so I counted the other day exactly there's over 20 of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69110	The answer to the replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69111	I was really talking about numbers and statistics. I wish the numbers were different, but it's obvious that these trends aren't the way you want them to be. But maybe I'll look back at two things you were talking about paying for. So if we're talking about non-payment we have a bill on payment deadlines 60 days, the first state or resolution ministry is today the Ministry of Health has talked a lot about the first ministry that doesn't pay is the Ministry of Health in 60 days. A little while ago you were talking about pre-departure deals, so I repeat again, often in conversations with entrepreneurs, we can just say that the deals you make and that you do destroy the healthy part of the economy is that in pre-gauge deals, people are exactly avoiding paying taxes, and that they're financing pre-profit deals, but it's also happening that those unhealthy parts of the economy are pulling away that healthy part of the economy and we're sure we're going to feel the long-term consequences about it. There is no need to talk about price stability, our citizens feel it best through the consumer basket, and the liquidity of the banks was present and it will probably still be here I think we're only protecting banks, not the ones we really need, which are our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69112	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69113	In the sixth month of government, our colleague Bubalo assured us that the deficit of the state budget was about 10 billion, although he knew at all times that for the first six months the government budget was over 12 billion. When they admitted that in the first six months, it was 12.5 billion, then we all knew that in 2013, we weren't going to end up below 16.5 billion. So that's one fact, but here you heard a little while ago that even that fact isn't a fact. However, I would like to update this data on how much a public debt has grown since 2000 to 2003 because you need to add 25%+1 of the INA stock, you need to add 165 shares of HT, and that 16% was a control package and funds from the sale of the Bank of Zagreb and Rijeka because when you add that funds that did not sell and finance the deficit then that public debt would grow by that much. So much for whose share it is, even though I think it's a funny shooting, but we're where we are. But I'm saying when this report came to the picture assembly it was far different, far worse, and the picture today is catastrophic compared to what was said at this time and the period for which this report applies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69114	The answer to the replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69115	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, here I mentioned you and I were talking about the first six months deficit, which was 12.6 billion, although the government estimated it would be twice as small, but we ended up with 17 billion deficits. Someone may argue further in this Croatian Assembly that it is not a fact, so it may not be a fact for him, but for us and for our children it is a problem, it is an obvious problem because our children will have to repay those loans. But also when we talk about the state of debt of the general state at the end of the period, we were also talking about statistics, and we know very well what was sold in the period from 2000 to today which important companies, you well reminded me that this precisely period would have been the deficit of 60 billion probably not sold that family silver that is important. But we see from today's policies that a deficit of 17 billion kuna is being created, but it is still trying, Croatia's insurance sold, we see that the banking sector wants to be sold to the end, but also the monetization of Croatian roads, and much better this monetization would depend on our pensions. that the funds invest precisely in monetization and other things where the fresh cash comes, and not to give it to foreigners, not to give the Croats lords with it. Therefore, clear policies, we live on credit, we die in wars, and that is what needs to be discussed in this Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69116	On behalf of the HNS club, colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69117	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected governor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. What Mr. Governor Vujcic clearly said by reading half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy, he made it clear that exiting the crisis is slow and will be slow. We are not a country that lives as an island on some high seas, but we are a country except that we are a member of the EU extremely connected to our environment and on special exports, and that is what is key to our development and key to getting out of the crisis. Of course, if we are talking about exports as a key based on domestic production should always be considered and that is why a good report is what I'm going to say is that it's cool in relation to all the other reports we get, and when we're discussing the current situation, which is that financial stability and price and exchange rates and only the financial situation of the banking sector is independent of, and clearly read numbers, which is that they are also falling profits but that the asset remains very high. The border is at 12%, theirs is over 20%. Therefore, the stability of the financial sector provides us and shows that quality monetary policy is being conducted in this country, and when asked what is the monetary value, it is expansional. Why? So it says here throughout the report all the measures that have been taken since 2012, 2013 on the reduction of the mandatory reserve from 15% to 13% with not so long ago reduction and ensuring that 1 and a half percent of the funds that can be used to finance the economy, the release from the reserve or the story, new. Therefore, banks are not required or are more over-nightly in the Croatian National Bank because such interest was zero, reduced to zero. So liquidity is the key in which the Croatian National Bank allows Croatian banks to finance the economy in particular, and on the other hand, of course it is regulated to control and monitor not only as recently said here on 31.12. what they will publish, we think of banks, but are constantly being followed by so-called on a daily basis, which is crucial, essentially, the situation in the banking sector. And what has so far proved to be such a way, that long-term policy in the Croatian People's Bank has ensured that we have as the governor has said one of the most stable financial systems in Europe, and especially in situations where, we are all aware of the crisis from America, it has spilled into Europe. Croatia didn't feel it. Therefore, the Croatian banking sector, the financial sector is stable and can, of course, endure this long-term recession, and we believe that unlike colleagues who believe that 2014 has already been written off for development, Croatia will create this crucial situation in which the gross product will grow that will feel essentially the trend of growth and development in Croatia. Discussing the limiting factors of a stronger economic recovery by reading the report is unnecessary because it clearly states what are the causes and consequences of what is crucial. I agree with everyone here what measures are being taken to make that recovery. We've passed a lot of laws, and we need to show this to the public in particular again, which ensure that we are competitive, that we are competitive in a way that the first domestic economy and those investors who have already invested in part of it, but have failed to complete the projects, end that part of the job. Then we can talk about the arrival of other foreign investors, because domestic entrepreneurship and those who have already stepped into Croatia do not realize what they started. It is difficult to expect and to be realistic that others will come because competitiveness, a positive entrepreneurial climate of course is rapidly collapsing but difficult to create. At this point, we do not have in this Report, but surely we have no less than 81 projects through the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, one more than 3 billion euros which is in phases from the building permit to the already started construction, which is certainly the biggest and strongest message for competitiveness. The Croatian National Bank also speaks in its report about the flexibility of the labour market. It's something that entrepreneurs say, it's something that is essentially what the countries of the EU that are the fastest to come out of the recession have done. To what extent this will go we will see through the first reading, but it is certainly a new Labour Act, but it is certainly one of the segments of competitiveness and attracting foreign investors. Not certainly on the burden and burden of workers, but certainly on the situation that workers are allowed to work again and to work. The high liquidity that has been secured on the financial market has been mentioned here and lower yields to bonds, i.e. vault records that were secured in the first 6 months of 2013 are certain that indicators are also possible in this segment and that this government is able to react and recognise the moment when it is necessary to issue vault records and where these contributions to those who buy it are more favourable, more favourable for the state, and less favourable of course for those who have to take it because it has excessive liquidity. It is certain that what concerns the reduction of legal risks that are also key to implementation and economic and monetary policy is something that we need to work on further and which are certainly the biggest risks that exist at the moment. Because the competitiveness of both the Strategic Investments Act and the promotion of investment and the release from payment is something that entrepreneurs have said and what I said about the Investment and Competitiveness Agency have already recognised. The situation in the economy is best seen not by saying that only the share of B, C in the company sector has increased to 26.9% in the first six months but rather by reading the problems that the banking sector is essentially, with which the banking sector is located and the reservations it must provide but shows in essence how much the crisis in the economy has brought the whole society into this situation and that all measures and as much as we criticise the pre-banking agreements are crucial in essence to literally clear the economy from those who can go forward and those who have created one single and large indifference. In this report, of course, only mentions the collection and tax and the increase in tax revenues in charge, however it is clear to everyone that a state which is unable to collect its tax revenues as the basic revenue of the state is then a state which is unable to collect anything, and in particular to introduce order into any segment of the company. Therefore, these are only messages that the state must carry out its obligations to its citizens on the one hand through the collection of tax revenues and send a message to all those that legal institutions are functioning, and certainly that what is necessary and we know for example. both from HEP and other companies that payment is orderly within 30 days, which is the first state in such a way the same must, wants and works to be the one to comply with the legal obligation and pay. These are all processes in part and we can call for reforms that essentially ensure that this 2014 we get out of the crisis and we are on the way out of the crisis. Is the gross product in plus in statistical error or a little bit more but it's sure it's going to be in plus and that way we'll show and prove that all these reports and positive movements that we have are realized and in reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69118	We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69119	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected to the governor with colleagues, and here after the discussion of colleagues from the HDZ Club and the HDSB club, there is none, I would simply like to highlight some positive shifts that are highlighted in this information for the first half of 2013 as well as some hints of a bar slowing the unfavourable movements they were talking about. So, the fact is that in the first half of 2013, we are still recording an economic downturn, but it should be said that it is minimal and it really points to a certain stabilisation of economic activity after a 4-year cumulative decline of over 10%, with the fact that I have to stress that 90% of this decline is actually responsible for the previous HDZ government. In the first quarter of 2013, gross domestic product fell 0.1% and then increased by 0.2% in the second quarter. In fact, I want to compare this growth to the growth of EU member states. In the same quarter of 2013, GDP fell by 0.2% in the EU. So we had an even worse situation in the EU than in the national economy. With this data, I would like to stress that the dynamics of GDP in Croatia are in recent quarters in its kind I would say even a very close correlation with trends in economic activity or GDP growth in the EU. I would like to stress, however, that national GDP is becoming less and less lagging behind the EU's GDP. This is important in view of the fact that in 2009, 2010 and 2011 the rates of GDP in Croatia were in fact in a huge disproportionate manner, I will say in a major lag in terms of GDP developments in the EU. In 2009, we had a 6% GDP drop in Croatia, while a 4.5% decline was achieved in the EU. In 2010 we have a decline of 1.2% in Croatia while we have a 2% growth in the EU at the same time. The year 2011 was the year of stagnation for Croatia. So we had zero growth. The EU has grown by 1.7%. In 2012, we again had a 2% decline in Croatia while the decline in the EU was far more mild, so it was 0.4%. Therefore, this is clearly one approximation of the EU's growth trends with Croatia with the EU. And I want to point out some more positive things in the first half of 2013. So, as we heard from the governor of the balance sheet current account continued to improve, inflation measured by consumer price growth was significantly slowed, so from 5.2% at the beginning of the period to 2% at the end of the reporting period. In the first half of 2013, we also had a certain increase in the number of employees. Unfortunately, that effect melted by the end of the year. Kuna according to the euro is stable because because of the high Eurosibility one really important moment of macroeconomic stability in the country. Important international reserves have been increased, and they are also a powerful fuse against uncontrolled skating. And now I'd like to say a few more words about the business of credit institutions, it's always interesting in such an environment as I described earlier. So, in 2012, it started, and in the first half of 2013 further intensified the spillover of the 4-year recession from real to financial sector. In other words, banks have begun to share the fate of the economy, i.e. the well-known rule that there are no good banks and there can be no good banks without a good economy or a good economy without good banks. In 2009, therefore, at the peak of the crisis when the economy fell to six percent of the net profit of banks amounted to 3.5 billion kuna in 2010, the economy dropped by 1.2%, the net profit of banks increased to 4.3 billion kuna, while in 2011, which was the year of stagnation of the net profit of banks increased further 10% and was 4.7 billion kuna. So, during the worst crisis and economic downturn, banks have earned over 15 billion kunas of net profit and the banking industry is a highly profitable activity if we can say so in Croatia. However, it is clear that it could not have stayed that way. In the first half of 2013, we read from this information the profits of banks before tax decreased by more than 40% compared to the same period in 2012 and amounted to a billion and 300 million kuna. Two of the most important reasons is this drastic downturn in bank earnings. The first is to undermine interest incomes because it is becoming less and less companies that can obtain credit at all, and also citizens are also abstinent from credit borrowing. And the second reason is the increase in booking costs for losses and it really gives banks more and more problems, the growing headache because in mid-2013 so-called bad loans reached a level of 15.1% with companies and should point out that they amount to as much as 26.9%, so we can say that each fourth credit becomes non-refundable, which is particularly characteristic of the activities of construction and trade. True, on the other hand, we are nowhere near the Romanian 33% or, say, Ukrainian 30% or Hungarian 20.55. But what is not good in the Croatian example is that this share will unfortunately continue to increase in Croatia and it is estimated that it would cross 17% while in these listed countries and others, these bad loans will reduce the share of total bank loans. What is still contributing to Croatia, which we could say is its kind of comparative advantage is that Croatia, with a banking capital ratio of 21%, is one of the best capitalised countries in the region and it assures it that it is still dealing with potential losses. For comparisons, I will say that Slovenia has a capital ratio of only 12% so far lower than ours. The People's Proverbs says that there is something good in every evil, and on that trail, I would like to say that the crisis has also brought a positive change in the behaviour of banks, not only of our Croatian but also of those of Europeans. In contrast to the time before the crisis, so before 2008 the banking sector now turned if I could say so to one new loan model based on primarily domestic sources, so on customer deposits and not so much on borrowed funds. In fact, we remember that during 2012, precisely because of the high liquidity of the bank, they were intensively deleveraging their banks to mothers abroad. In 2013 as we read from this information, this deleveraging was slowed down and was partially compensated by the increase in domestic sources of funding of a special population deposit. So, the deposits of the population as we know are the most important source of banking potential, they are over 50% and they are still growing although, of course, far slower dynamics than it was before, say, 8 or 10 years ago when we were led by boom loans and deposits in the region. The savings of citizens then grew at an average annual rate of 15%, now it has been reduced to about 2% but the fact remains that in banks at the moment about 200 billion kuna is accumulated, and that is one huge financial potential that should be far more effective than it is now. So the state would definitely have to benefit more from that potential even if there was a tax on savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69120	Governor Boris Vujčić's closing statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69121	Thank you very much. I'm just not going to repeat briefly what I've said many times to keep myself on a few issues in the debates that the CNB did, perhaps briefly just to remind myself that during the crisis I think the CNB did what the National Bank can do with the instruments at its disposal, created as soon as the crisis started and maintained to date, today is essentially at a record level of surplus liquidity. We killed created structural surplus liquidity in the economy, we created practically 12% of GDP additional liquidity, and today as you know so high liquidity on the market because we don't have to do repo operations anymore, there's no need for repo operations because of the amount of money that's on the market. As a result, interest rates on the interbank market are on the lowest levels, they are almost zero now. And we also accept the government's borrowing with an argument, of course, that because of the aversion to the risk at the moment, the bank's most likely to borrow money from the state, but that's why we introduced two models, the first one with HABOR, so-called. a, b and c models that we can make in the next report one analytical framework to see how successful they were and what they did and now this new model that we started this year where we reduced the minimum reserve rate by 1.5%, turned it into mandatory cash registers and told the banks that we would print 50% of the cash registers for each kuna of loans they give to businesses. This is very attractive for banks and to the extent that companies have capital and collateral, it will certainly be willing to do so. However, the main problem is that businesses do not have enough capital and collateral at the moment. After 5 years of crisis, the level of capital has decreased, a company that comes out of pre-profit settlements practically doesn't have capital either. They've gone through some kind of childish set-up with banks, and the value of the collateral has either or means they've collateralized already collateral for existing loans or their value has fallen since the price, the value of the property has fallen. However, this is what monetary policy can do, and I hope that we will succeed in the programme push initiative together with the European Investment Bank and the European Commission where a font would be made for guaranteeing the first lot of guarantees, means the first loss of 20% on loans to small and medium-sized enterprises. This would in some ways be a substitute for the lack of collateral and capital that now exists in small and medium-sized enterprises and would make banks less reluctant to the risk of lending to small and medium-sized enterprises which are the main creators of employment. The main part of employment is in small and medium-sized enterprises, not in large enterprises, and until we start that cycle for small and medium-sized enterprises, we will not be able to raise employment. And small- and medium-sized enterprises' bankruptcy is much bigger than large-sized companies' bankruptcy, which is why the aversion of banks towards crediting small and medium-sized enterprises is much higher. So that's the problem we have to solve. I see this as a good trip. In addition, of course, the CNB has ensured continued price stability, the stability of the course which, I will not repeat, is crucial in Croatia because of the high degree of euroisation. Yesterday, I had one of the potential biggest investors in Croatia in the next year, which was fundamental to his interest when he came to talk to me, giving me a steady course. If he did not stay stable, they would not be willing to invest in Croatia, so we need to know that not only because of domestic financial stability, but because of the prospect of what we need, and these are investments we need to maintain such a situation, and the CNB had, has prepared and has everything that is necessary to keep this situation in the future. So we will continuously maintain the stability of the course. Besides, of course we maintained the stability of the banking system. I think it's a key thing and it's overlooked, you know, when you have something, then you take it for granted. Let's look at what happened in the EU during the crisis, let's look at fiscal costs in other countries amid problems in banks, let's see from Germany, Great Britain, the Netherlands, Belgium, Austria, Ireland, Spain, Cyprus, Slovenia, where three of the largest banks came into trouble in state ownership. We know they've already resented us for why we haven't, why we privatized the banks. Let's see how much unprivatised the bank costs. So that's the key thing. So we had a very strong recession, a very long, five years and we managed to preserve the stability of the banking system. That is the goal of the CNB that it has achieved. The cleaning of bank balances, as Mr. Bubalo said, is very important and we want this cleanup to happen as soon as possible, which is why we went with the new reservation policy just to get the bank balances cleaned up as quickly as possible and now we see it. It's now in action, it's happening now. As far as the recession is concerned, I said in a public statement in 2009, it was in the paper that the recession would be both a long and a recovery of the dispute. So that was pretty clear back then. I don't want to go back into reasons, I'm always willing to discuss everything, but not to repeat myself. For what? Because one model of growth that we had until then, it was clear that it was over, that it would never happen again, and to build a new growth model, it took time and a lot of effort, primarily structural changes in the economy. And in the end, maybe just two more normative notes. I agree that this is really a report for the 1st to 6th month 2013, we are now in the 2nd month of 2014 and looks out of time and space. I like to discuss recent things, anyone who knows me, and Mr. Shucker knows me very well, knows how much I love and I'm always ready to talk about things that happen, either a year ago, either today or tomorrow. That's the kind of debate I'm always ready for. But I must remind you that I was just criticised in this assembly four and a half years ago when I was talking about recent events. I was then warned by several MPs, the chairman of the Committee on Budgets and Finance at the time, not to mention who it was, to stick to the agenda, which is the report for the 1st to 6th, which was already that year, when I was speaking. And after those criticisms, we at the CNB have withdrawn the consequences and we stick to what the law says, we file a report on the 1st to the 6th, and we discuss it. Although I'm always willing to discuss anything, you know how dense it is to me. As far as the vote is concerned, I would only remind myself that the CNB Act states that the parliament does not vote on the CNB report but takes note, and then I support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69122	Thank you. Thank you, Governor, for your cooperation. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69123	Half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy. The debate on the half-yearly report is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget as the home working body of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. It takes note of half-yearly information on the financial situation and the degree of price stability and implementation of monetary policy. I'm asking you to plead by raising your hand. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? Yeah. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 83 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 23 abstentions are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69124	And we will move to the 2012 Annual State Aid Report of the Competition Protection Agency submitted this report in accordance with the provisions of Article 17(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. State aid laws. You've received the motion for an act. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. You received their reports at the session. Introduces the report by the President of the Competition Protection Council, Mr Mladen Cerovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69125	Thank you. Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored MPs and MPs. Before you is the Annual Report of the Agency for the Protection of Competition on State aid for 2012. It is the 10th edition of the report submitted by the Agency for adoption to the Croatian Assembly. This report has been drawn up in accordance with the methodology laid down by the European Commission, we are consistently implementing it. As you can see, the report has about 150 pages, it's comprehensive, so I'm just going to try to get some major emphasis out of that report as much as possible. In 2012, a total of 8798.2 million kuna of support was allocated to the Republic of Croatia, down from 2.6% compared to the previous year. The share of GDP support in 2012 is 2.66%, down from the previous year by about 3%. For the sake of comparisons, although these comparisons are not always the happiest in the EU, the 27 share of support in GDP was 0.51%), we see that there is a certain disproportionateity and perhaps Croatia should gradually reduce the share of state support in GDP in the coming years. Support per employee amounted to 6306.4 kuna while support per capita of the Republic of Croatia amounted to 2046.1 kuna, which is practically at the level of 2011. Although the Agency was not responsible for granting State aid for agriculture and fisheries, it is obliged to present them in its report according to this said methodology of the European Commission. Thus, of the total amount of aid granted, the support in the agriculture and fisheries sector amounted to €3541.7 million and €40.3%, respectively, of the total aid granted with a 1.1% share in GDP. Again, if we compare this with the EU 27 share of support allocated to the GDP agriculture and fisheries sector, it is likely that this share of these support in GDP will be reduced, given that the financing of agriculture and fisheries is the most likely to take place from structural funds. According to the aid instruments in 2012, the most common instrument was subsidies by a 75% share in the aid granted, followed by guarantees with a 10.2% share and tax relief of 8.6%. When we talk about aid to the industry and services sector, they carried out 5255.5 million kuna in 2012, which makes up almost 60% of the total aid granted. Their share in GDP was 1.6%. Again, the comparison with EU 27, where the share of these support in GDP is 0.42%, thus approximately 4 times lower. In the support structure of industry and sectoral support services prevail over horizontal aids, with a share of almost 70%, 69.8% in total support to industry and sector support services, while some 30% in horizontal support. The comparison with the EU here almost reverses the situation, so in the EU the ratio is 90%:10 in favour of horizontal support while in Croatia it is 30:70, so sectoral support prevails. As part of the sectoral support, the most support was granted to the 1595.6 million kuna transport sector with a share in sectoral aid of 43.5%, then public broadcasting services with a share of 32.6%, then the shipbuilding sector with 13.6%, etc. In the horizontal support structure, the most support is granted to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs of 703,3 million kunas, then regional aid of 231,3 million kunas, support for the employment of 121 million, for research and development of 104 million etc. The 2012 Annual Report on aid granted to industry and services amounting to €5255.5 million was also presented in accordance with the then applicable division according to statistical regions in the Republic of Croatia. NUC2 regions. Thus, 979.2 million kuna of support was allocated to central eastern and Pannonian Croatia, the Adriatic Croatia 2350.6 million kuna, the northwestern Croatia region 1925.7 million kuna. Let's say something about assessing the impact of the support granted. In 2012, the Agency also presented data on the monitoring and assessment of the effects of the aid granted. According to the data they provided us according to the estimates provided by the support providers of the total... support providers 12 provided us with those estimates. The objective of the impact monitoring is to assess the efficiency of spending of budgetary resources, and all the donors who have been shown to have produced mostly positive effects of the aid granted and to achieve the intended objectives such as promotion of culture, employment, regional development, etc. A few words from Deminis support for small-value support, the European Commission, according to the methodology mentioned above, does not show in its reports, but since in Croatia they are allocated in significant amounts, the agency shows them however, they have been allocated to the sum of 509.8 million kuna largely through subsidies almost 60% through subsidies, then tax exemptions, exemptions of 19.4%, favourable loans with a share of 13.9%, etc. And to try to sum up all of this in a few sentences, so we can conclude that in 2012, a total of less support was granted, the share of support in GDP was reduced, the share of support per employee and per capita of the Republic of Croatia was reduced. Horizontal support has a positive trend, but sectoral support continues to prevail. The reduction of guarantees as an instrument of support is then noticeable. With sectoral support, the most support has been granted to the transport sector and we have a significant increase here. The data on the effectiveness of the aid granted show positive effects in achieving the objectives and what is important for the Agency and this is a significant shift in the discipline of the support provider in relation to the delivery of data by the Competition Protection Agency for the preparation of such a report. And finally, although slow trends still show the progress of the Republic of Croatia towards meeting that key principle, which is less but well-oriented support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69126	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the Independent Representatives Club, Grubisic and Cain are not present, so they lose the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the SDP club Igor Radjenovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69127	Thank you, Madam Vice President. And according to the day's promise, I won't be long. If, in one sentence, we should sum up this report from the previous report, compare it with the previous reports, it is a jubilee 10 reports that AZTN brings about state support, and how this process takes place in the Republic of Croatia we could tell Mr. Director that every day, i.e. Every year, in every respect, more and more small steps are progressing, and we think it's some leit motive for this report. I said 10 jubilee reports from the agency, they'll file another one for the first six months if I'm not mistaken in 2013, so that jurisdiction goes to the Ministry of Finance. I thank everyone who brought these good, exhaustive, quality, content reports all these years before the Competition Protection Agency because it was not always easy for them. Namely, they are in fact able to even say maybe our next colleagues, the next points of their own statistics that were due therefore based on the data they receive and how they get to inform us about trends and what is moving around state support in the Republic of Croatia. There is no simple and simple definition of what support is, but what is in the law and what is important is that 4 basic conditions that support must therefore be adopted and declared State aid, i.e. they must adopt cumulatively, i.e. to maintain, therefore, the resources from the state budget which include both local budgets and local and regional levels, state funds or banks or any other institution that is somehow established by the state. Those resources, which would be allocated to the undertaking that is achieving them, must achieve an economic advantage. It must be selective, so it must not distort competition i.e. It must be allocated to an economic sector. And if it meets all four conditions, then it is declared state aid. All these years it's been done by the Competition Protection Agency, all of you remaining colleagues and colleagues know that this jurisdiction is now going on, in fact it went to the European Commission and that things could have been resolved backwards so we hope that something like this will not happen. There's been some important companies, and in our neighborhood, we believe it won't be like that. As I said in quality, exhaustive, informative, contained report that provides full and realistic insight into what was happening in this area. To all those who want to read this report and get acquainted with state support and to all those who want to make certain political moves on this basis, it is in any case a good basis. The director said in the introduction, thus showing the total support data in absolute and relative values, also shows trends in their movement in particular over the last three years, comparing them with macro-economic indicators, with GDP, with budgetary expenditure, with the number of employees, with the number of inhabitants. For the first time in this report, therefore, the basic data on the aid granted to agriculture and fisheries are also. More detailed industry and services. What is new is also these are support according to the map of statistical regions, the small-value support report, the comparison of standard we are still rarely what things we are first in Europe in support are still. However, the good reason is that agriculture and fishing, therefore for the subject of this report, were still out of place in most parts outside the EU funds. And so what's new and what might be interesting is what I'm going to say a little bit later on, there's also an analysis of the impact of the support granted. I said what was personally interesting to me, I would not go deeper in keeping with the promise and given the time. I think that this division is interesting, therefore to the NUC region and the total amount of support allocated to central and eastern Croatia, i.e. Pannonian, Adriatic and Northwest Croatia, and when we rule out this factor, perhaps my HDSSB colleagues will not fully agree with me. There is a slightly smaller amount, so yes, when we look cumulatively for Pannonian Croatia. However, when we rule out agriculture that is not present in this table and shipbuilding that carries something stronger, of course, 500 million for the Adriatic, then practically 3 statistical regions are equal to about the number of inhabitants, so they are roughly equal to the support. The effectiveness of the state aid granted should actually be a by-product, i.e. The most important product that should come out of this together. As I said, the opening agency for the protection of competition must primarily tell us about how the effectiveness was assessed by the support providers themselves. What they notice is that the number of these efficiency rapporteurs is higher, if it had increased by 20%, I would have said from 110 to 12 donors and that all of them, you'd be surprised by colleagues and colleagues, assessing their state support to successful ones. Of course, that didn't surprise me either. I say, progress is in terms of the extent of the data delivered, and it actually fully agrees with that first half-glazed sentence that in this area and in the field of reporting, we are making progress more and more easily. I'm saying, probably from the position of the Ministry of Finance itself and his, so to speak, stronger roles in the system of the state administration of public finances will I assume that all support providers will submit their report next year. The director said what the result is and can be drawn as a kind of conclusion is that a positive trend is therefore in reducing the decline of the aid granted. The main cause, unfortunately, is the economic crisis. And they continue to dominate sectoral support, something more horizontal but we can still talk about a positive trend but not about positive overall relations. For the first time, there was a reduction, which is logical, in agriculture and fishing. We expect a more significant reduction these years, so direct support than will be from European funds. Although they remain significant in 2012 and not insignificant in Croatian frameworks 3.5 billion are allocated to agriculture and fishing, although 16% less than in the previous year. The largest amount still carries the industry's 60%, so 5.2 billion, which is a 10% increase compared to 2011. I'm in a dilemma, said my colleague Shucker we're not going to be the first six months of '13. And then back in '12. Always a dilemma when you go deeper into numbers. Therefore, sectoral, but most of these sectors are related to those of general economic interest, i.e. support for rail, maritime and air transport and that of Croatia. I said, the most positive trend is the growth of horizontal support, which is now a billion and 585 million kuna. They have a 30% share and compared to when you compare them, although it can't be so rough, but when you compare that relationship with Europe, so our relationship is 30-70, Europeans are vice versa 90-10, but trends are positive and I say more significant changes are likely to happen in these years that are coming.... significant, detailed, 510 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One sentence therefore concerns a quality report, as I said it could and must be a good basis for making future decisions in a narrowed-down manoeuvre that the Republic of Croatia has to join the EU. And as such, on behalf of the SDP Club, I once again commend and thank you for all these 10 years of work and, of course, for this latest report and for the new tasks that give you the new law I want a lot of happiness because the basic activity... The business of the Competition Protection Agency is very important in the years ahead. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69128	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69129	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, with the conclusion that the report has been done in quality, and I think I want to say here publicly that, at the end of these 10 years, we should thank Mrs. Spevec for the simple reason, one hard work and conflict with many to bring things into order. And I think a man should be honest and correct and say it publicly. And as for the report itself, when I'm discussing these reports at this time, it just can't, I'm still talking about that financial spirit of the financier, and I don't see the meaning of this report in the first month. I just don't see any colleagues or colleagues. This report, in my opinion, had to be discussed between the report on the implementation of the budget and the adoption of a new budget. Why? Here's a colleague, Radjenovic, now talking about the success of individual support, and let's just take this, let's try to show that here in the report it is indicated that some of the support did not give the expected results, while at the same time the resolution minister or head of the budget user insisted that these funds remain, however, to be greater. And since we haven't had this assessment and assessment of the effect of these support, let's say the budget provides for more resources and now we bring the budget and then we figure out what we've come up with. That's why I'm saying that simply because of the dignity of all of us, we have to discuss this report earlier, and it can't happen that this report at the government is adopted in December because it simply has to be adopted earlier. Why? So if we adopt the report on the implementation of the budget, all of these data are nothing more than sublimated data from the budget with hundreds of positions of budgetary users and put into tables based on a particular methodology. And if we have received the report on the implementation of the budget practically somewhere in the 4th, 5th or 6th month, then the logical thing is that this report could have been almost anywhere by the 9th month or simply those who need to submit data to the Competition Protection Agency should be forced to submit these data, evaluations and assessments by a certain time that this report can be made. Because I'm saying, I really don't see the point of discussing this report in the 2nd month 2014, practically at this point it's already a rebalancing budget for 2014 and we're discussing the 2012 Report and ask God what's going to happen with the 2013 Report. But I sincerely hope that now that it's tolerated by the Ministry of Finance will somehow agree to it together. It's not a criticism to the agency, that we understand each other, it's simply some thinking. But this report also offers some answers, certain questions. And what is crucial is whether we have prepared and put into a situation so that we can use EU funds effectively. That's a key question to me. All of these other things are mathematical indicators that are like this and like this. And I would do these mathematical indicators if I were to take a look at macroeconomic indicators then that picture wouldn't look so ideal for a simple reason, look at the words in 2012 within sectoral support is the most allocated in the billion-dollar transport sector and 595 million if I'm not mistaken most of these support is practically a day for HZ. Look at our situation today HZ CARGO, HZ infrastructure is generally Croatian railways in a catastrophic situation and you will see later in the explanation of the text you have also explained that the practical support received by Croatian railways in previous years, why were they used? The Veli is not covered by the funds received in the rail transport sector from the maintenance and investment budget in infrastructure because, under the law, such funds are not considered to support because other railway service providers can benefit from the infrastructure. And now look, we quote this one legislative phrase and we know that in Croatia it is practically known who is using rail infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia. And when you look at it and you read it then it's a clear story that these support that HZ received all these years has been practically neither for free reproduction nor for slower dying because also when you look at the information that in 2012, the most sectoral support went to the transport sector, then the question is what is there with guarantees received by HZ CARGO and HZ infrastructure on behalf of those billions, 300, 400 million that were then received from the state budget and which is the explanation of these support is said not to be treated with support. However, I say it is so, one legislative phrase but unfortunately today the situation in HZ CASGO and HZ infrastructure have as we have. As for support in agriculture and fisheries, it is good that they are shown even though they are not in this area in a certain way, but we can also ask ourselves whether these huge billions we have invested over the past years have stopped rapidly. Well, look, you have one statistical indicator now, which is that in recent months, beef exports have increased rapidly in Croatia. You know what's going on? People slaughter cows with farms that have been invested in over the years and that have been supporting as capital support for the construction of these farms. Today these cows are slaughtering and today it is some positive export indicator of the Republic of Croatia, but this is an indicator of Croatia's disaster and Croatian wrong policy. Because since we had that, it's stupid to talk when you talk about living creatures, which are cows, you have the infrastructure to produce milk, couldn't you find some way to support those vast farms in Croatia survive and not today we have thousands of empty walls and tens of thousands of dairy cows are slaughtered and exported out. So much for the justification of certain support and not to bother anymore because I don't like to talk about any dog stories. So this report is another one of the reports that we're going to discuss for the next few days, which simply makes no sense to discuss. This is a waste of time because this report is already over in 2013 that we cannot influence the adoption of the budget nor for 2014 and let alone to talk about 2013.It is simple that, it determines the fact that it is a quality made, who can inside, can read a series of information if reading amongst the words can see even more information. Unfortunately, as these support has been granted to certain companies, it only tells us that macroeconomic indicators as they are can't be different because when you look at all the support, they have practically fallen since 2012 even though they were really looking at growth to push certain economic branches as far as possible before they enter the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69130	Srdjan Gjurkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69131	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, you said, in part, that these are a lot of figures in 2012 and so on. However, what is read from this annual report is what I think is important without being figures, which is the first thing we can say from page 87 of the effectiveness of the state aid granted in 2012. I think it's the key to these figures, those more than a billion euros that support went to in 2012, and it's probably going to be the same thing in the year 2013. Efficiency as achieving the objectives set, which is effective because we see from this report that both part and the ministries and agencies have provided both the objective of support and a description of the impact of the support. I personally believe that this is what is crucial in all future reports because the use of the budget for support is necessary and necessary as it is said and because of the purpose of market imperfections, the promotion of sectoral development and the culture of correcting regional inequalities. However, the ineffectiveness of investment through support is crucial that we know what is going on in these funds and how effective it is to kill what results we get, of course by these tasks and by employment because that is the key to whether a billion or half billion euros are going to support, we need to know what the result is. That's why the numbers are good but efficiency is the basis we'll know if these numbers are killed in the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69132	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69133	Comrade Gjurkovic, we can talk one way or another if we start with that key and roof we today have 380 thousand unemployed and that these support has given such results as it wants to be shown that this picture would be different. HH CARGO is today ahead of bankruptcy, HH infrastructure is also in big trouble. Look what's going on with the shipping in the ship's industry and I can list you a series of things. Therefore, these figures should be translated into real things in life that are happening and you will see that the situation is what it is, but I understand your need to show that suddenly in 2012 miracles happened with these aids and very interesting that with the support that was in 2011 was a disaster. Well, that's fascinating. But it's something that's constantly heard that with smaller money, it's been made a lot more than it was in the previous year when there was a lot more money. Therefore, the figures should simply be viewed as being, the figures are exact and cannot be politicized.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69134	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69135	Madam Vice President, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. State support is a very important instrument in these content on economic processes and it is certainly good that we can consider them and I do not think that the problem is that this report is being considered now. Obviously, because of the very complicated mechanisms, it takes a little bit more time to get these support, all of them get information about them, so it says here that at the time of writing this report or the 2012 EU Support Report, which was somewhere in September 2013, it wasn't over because it obviously takes time for all these data to be collected and this review to be made, or this report. This is 10. The State aid report for the current year, i.e. for the previous year, and that was the obligation of the Republic of Croatia and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and of course after our entry into the EU, this is our obligation under the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. And, of course, such reports, such information for the EU is important because they speak about the extent to which a Member State or a country that accesss can compromise what is one of the fundamental principles of the EU and its functioning, it is freedom of competition. So that's the interest of the EU, but good monitoring of support, their understanding to the extent that they are useful, in which they are not useful, where we have sinned is certainly useful and for the Republic itself and these reports are useful for discussion and if they want and know to be obvious then they can give answers to this question, why 380 thousand unemployed, why increase in public debt, why incompetence, etc.? This can be read specifically from these reports, and it is therefore useful to discuss these reports. During 2013, a new State Aid Act was adopted, and by the basis of it and two Regulations that would allow these reports to be more precise, clearer, cleaner, and, of course, I assume that, even if the report does not... and the introduction of EU legislation which we expect will make our law and its implementation more quality than it has ever been. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is generally needed to say is that the negative data that are understandable, as regards support, are reducing, therefore, the negative figures that speak of not taking good advantage of these support are being reduced, however not too quickly. Thus, in 2012 and 2011, the total amount of support is reduced by 3%, or around 230 million kuna, respectively. And there is a slight shift in horizontal and vertical support, sectoral support ratios. In fact, horizontal support is the support that improves the general operating conditions and does not concern individual industries and individual branches, individual sectors and, of course, it is desirable that these universal horizontal support be as high as possible and while the ratio of horizontal and sectoral support in the EU is 90/10%, 90% are horizontal support, and only 10% are sectoral support because you choose sectoral support and with horizontal support you create general conditions for the better business of a single country's economy. In the Republic of Croatia, the share of these horizontal, conditionally put good support was 26%, and in 2012, it increased shyly to 30%, so this is not a major increase compared to 90% of the EU's. Therefore, these are data that should certainly be understood and seen how these data can be corrected. Support for small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Croatia is being added, in the last few years it has been growing, which is these horizontal support, so that from 170 million kunas in 2010, last year, namely 2011 it grew to 324 million kuna, and in 2012, almost doubled and amounting to 703 million kuna. It is certainly good information that these support is increasing, but some of the support that is the fruit of our inherited relationship is certainly not so easy to abolish. So the support to HRT, i.e. broadcasting, to public television broadcasting is greater than the support of small and medium-sized enterprises, and last year was greater than the total of all horizontal support. This year they are no bigger, but they are moving here somewhere, so some horizontal support has exceeded the support of HRT, and of course support to HRT is sectoral support that has in fact very little to do with the business of the Croatian economy. It is also good to welcome the reduction of state guarantees that do not have support elements, some state guarantees given to firms that are not in difficulty are not considered aids, so that the number of guarantees is usually not protested, so they are mostly not exploited so that the number of these guarantees from 10.3 billion in 2011 falls to 5.6 billion kuna which is a large amount, so this is a decline of more than 4.5 almost 5 billion kuna. When the most important issue is being raised with these support to which colleague, on behalf of HDZ, has in some way refused to discuss the issue of the effectiveness of these support. He's just looking at the final number. You need to see how to get that final number. All support users, the support providers to submit reports to the Competition Protection Agency, all of course say that these support was effective. They're doing an analysis of whether these support is effective or not, it's a little more complicated work. So all those who provide these support say they are effective. Another and better mechanism should be found, not a subjective mechanism for those who provide support because they cannot say that their support is ineffective, then what they do would be pointless. The right mechanisms should be found to assess the effectiveness of these support, but it is very complicated because there are very, very many exceptions in these supports. Some elements of these support do not enter, some are exceptions, are separated so that it is not quite simple, but it would be good if the Agency for the Protection of Competition or the Ministry of Finance that will submit this report find some mechanisms so that we can crediblely, reliably determine that some of the support is effective, that they have indeed given effect, and not only have been given so that this is the one who gave them an estimate that they are successful. There are interesting individual cases here, I will mention only two HZ Cargo and HZ passenger transport whose support for 2012 is 536 million kuna. One part of these support is going towards restructuring, i.e. a reduction in the number of employees, and should be expected to lead to more successful operations by these companies because of state aids entering the rationalisation process of a reduced number of employees. And here's a case that's been spinning over the last month in our public opinion, which is to bridge the business difficulties of the Immunological Institute the amount of aid of 43 million kuna. Since the institution, or the company, has about 300 employees, is somewhere at the level of the total annual salary. So they got almost more money from the state for their business than their annual salary, and then when such a company that was in such difficulty came, it was first in the recovery phase, and then it went by law, the law was supposed to go into bankruptcy, then they were wondering what happened, how we ruined the company. And here is the very clear fact that in 2012 the company for overcoming business problems was given 43.2 million kunas, therefore, greater than or at the level of the total annual salary of all their 300 employees, which means that the company had been thoroughly destroyed at that time. And apparently these support was already assessed as effective by then, and that finally proved to be true. So even then, instead of making decisions on time, waiting and before that, we waited for the company to come to legal terms of bankruptcy, so more or less at the point of destruction, and then, by law, we made decisions by law, and we did not make decisions in time until there was a possibility that the company and other companies might eventually be saved and carried out on the path of successful business. I have stated this only because I illustrate to our public how when such things happen in our public, such as the unwanted bankruptcy of the Immunological Institute, such things as they mean are very vividly described and very clearly describe the business of these companies not at all, and then responsibility is transferred to someone else, and it is not followed by these real data which can then be well pictured both by the business of the company and the possible responsibility of individual administrations for its business. In any case, it is good that we are on our way to the EU, and especially as its member, we have accepted that obligation to submit an annual support report. These annual support should be read much more carefully, analysed all of its items. And I am not in any way suggesting to the Ministry of Finance or the Agency even though she will no longer be the applicant of this report to try to present the mechanisms to the Croatian Assembly from which it could objectively, reliably conclude to what extent some of the support is effective in which they are not, rather than relying on the evaluations of those who gave these support, whether their assessment can be objective because they would show that the purpose of their action is not affected. Here is the basis of all of this, so it's a useful material that seems to me that we're not exactly using ourselves in the right way, and that shows the intensity of this debate and of the time and the relationship of colleagues to this problem. But this is a material that can be useful if it is to be used and the Club of HNS Representatives will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69136	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report later. Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69137	Annual State aid report for 2012. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. The 2012 Annual State Aid Report is hereby adopted. I'd like to make a statement on the proposed conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed conclusion was accepted unanimously by 114 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69138	And now we will bring together the debate on: - Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2012 submitted by the Government pursuant to Article 33. Law on official statistics and - Proposal for a Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 The Proposer of the Annual Plan is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted on both proposals by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The introduction report and the draft plan will explain the Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Mr Saša Zelenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69139	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. So short. As regards the implementation of the annual statistical plan for 2012 the Reports on the implementation of the 2012 Official Statistics Act have been drawn up by the State Statistics Office in a report on the implementation of the annual plan. The annual implementation plan for statistical activities provided for the implementation of 280 statistical research and 58 other statistical activities involving projects and expert methodological works. All planned research has been done entirely. The National Statistics Institute carried out the highest number of statistical activities, which is 169 statistical research and 44 project and expert methodological work, while other activities were then carried out by the other authorities of the state administration. For the implementation of these activities in 2012 the State Statistics Institute planned 99.8 million kuna. Just over 103 million kunas have been spent. Of the total planned funds for the implementation of the most comprehensive and complex statistical research, this is a census. 13 million kuna was spent, part of it through a measure of public works by the Croatian Employment Institute. The State Statistics Office developed the document in question on the basis of the reports obtained, i.e. on the basis of the opinion of the Ministry’s official statistics holder and other state administration bodies. In line with the draft law of the document in question, the draft adopted opinion of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Croatia at the meeting held on 15 July 2013. As regards the 2014 annual implementation plan for the Republic of Croatia, the annual implementation plan covers the review of all statistical research, i.e. the development activities that the official statistics holders intend to carry out in 2014. The annual implementation plan planned to conduct a total of 300 surveys, means ten percent more than in 2012 of which the State Statistics Institute as the main institution of coordinator and determinator of the official statistics system carried out the largest number of surveys 223, would again be 169. A presentation of statistical research and projects, therefore, says 102 of these surveys and measurements will be in the area of demographic and social statistics. The second largest area is that of business statistics with 82 measures, 39 will concern statistics on agriculture, forestry and fisheries, 32 macro-economic statistics, 36 multidisciplinary research and 2 support for the so-called statistical output. The new approach to the development of the annual plan resulted in the coordination of a wider set of institutions as well as other users in the process of making it, and was submitted to all ministries and other state administrations after the merger of the draft proposal and passed the public debate process. The statistical law lays down the amount of funding for the implementation of statistical activities to be provided in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia by the Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities. In accordance with the national budget for this and the projections for the next two years, the total resources necessary for the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan are a total of 121.6 million kuna. For example, it is important to note that own revenue is growing, meaning that the State Statistics Institute is increasingly offering its services and a wider circle of users. As regards the process of drawing up and adopting the Annual Plan again, according to the law of the business of official statistics are carried out by the State Institute as a central body, the administrative body of the city of Zagreb responsible for official statistics, the Croatian National Bank and other authorised bodies of official statistics designated by the programme. The programme of statistical activities shall be determined by the following authorised bodies. So, Environmental Protection Agency, Croatian Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications, Croatian Institute for Public Health, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of the Interior. When drawing up the draft annual implementation plan, the National Statistics Institute asked the official statistics holder to include them in the preparation of the document, i.e. to deliver research from their field of work. In late July 2013, the State Institute produced a united document and submitted it to the holders of official statistics, as well as to all ministries and other authorities of the state administration. On the basis of the opinions received, the Bureau has drawn up, therefore, the plan in question, and accepted all those comments which it considers to be acceptable or to contribute to the quality of the document. The State Statistics Office also held an Internet public hearing in accordance with the Code of Consulting with the interested public whose purpose and purpose was to obtain an opinion from the interested public, i.e. to include users, system stakeholders in the design of the document. All comments, comments and proposals have been carefully examined and, in line with the possibilities, are again transparently and publicly included in the draft document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69140	Thank you very much. Does a representative of the board want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club, counterpart Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69141	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, respected director of the State Statistics Institute. On behalf of the SDP club, I would like to point out immediately that we will support both the report and the plan of activity. As the Deputy Minister has already informed the Annual Implementation Plan for 2012 the implementation of 280 statistical research and 58 projects in 18 authorised bodies was envisaged. All planned research was conducted in full except for 2 research by the Croatian Institute of Public Health, which was the deadline for first results following the submission of this report, which was therefore in September last year. The report shows that most of the statistical activities are carried out by the State Statistics Institute, i.e. 169 statistical surveys and 44 projects and professional methodological work in the annual and multi-annual design dynamics. It is also evident that the rebalancing of the state budget, the State Statistics Office in the reference year, spent 712 thousand kunas less than the original planned plan and what falls into the eye of the report itself, is the fact that the State Statistics Office has 142 employees, i.e. civil servants and tenants less than provided for in the Regulation. Therefore, it remains under the question mark because the report really does not show whether the regulation has too extensively predicted the number of employees or a small number of employees have done their job well in view of the fact that at the outset I said all planned projects were implemented and implemented. Given that the harmonisation of Croatian statistics is continued in 2012 in line with EU standards that further improvements have been made with regard to the availability of data via the website of the State Statistics Institute, that further improvement in price statistics, purchasing power parity, national accounts, labour market statistics, social care, education, innovation and agriculture will be supported by this report. All research has been conducted in accordance with EU regulations and data are processed and sent to EUROSTAT. UN requirements for statistical indicators have been met, and projects in the field of livestock statistics and agromonetary statistics have been further implemented, which even this annual plan had not previously been adopted. All data are regularly published in accordance with the publication and publication calendar of statistics, which is unusually important for all users of the State Statistics Institute. Therefore, I am of the opinion that the State Statistics Institute is fulfilling its main task in the form of providing users with a reliable source for decision making and harmonising views based on the fact that it is guided by the principles of UN law, namely the principles of relevance, impartiality, reliability, transparency, professional independence and public responsibility. When it comes to the 2014 Plan and I will only point out that last year, the Croatian Parliament adopted a programme of activities for the 4-year period and the plan we have ahead of us is, in fact, within that plan for the second consecutive year. What I would point out on this occasion is that statistics, and this is what some debates today have shown both monetary policy and state aid, are necessary to formulate public policies both those that I have cited and those that citizens feel on their skin in everyday life, such as economic, or industrial, health, social. And of course we need data to measure their effects and to be able to process them adequately, analyze and interpret them. The 2014 Plan itself provides for the collection and processing of data from the internal and external immigration of the population, so these are the social statistics that are also necessary for the creation of demographic policy, and as recently as I understand it, I think we should also have a strategy for demographic policy by the end of the year. The plan also provides for data relevant for the creation of regional development policy, labour and employment policies, public health, as well as data relevant for budgetary planning, the calculation of public finances statistics, public debt statistics and deficits, and publication of the consumer price index or confidence of inflation. As the deputy minister has already pointed out the plan envisions a total of 300 statistical surveys, the planned budgets are 121 million and 642,000 kuna. As the plan is based on the adopted 4-year plan, the needs of users but also on EU SDP requirements will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69142	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69143	Thank you, dear vice president, Deputy Minister, Director of the State Department, colleagues and colleagues. The 2012 report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan for the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia will be supported by the HDZ Club. The State Statistics Office is the main holder and coordinator of the system of official statistics. In accordance with the Statistics Act and in accordance with international recommendations and standards that meet the principles of the UN and the principles of European Statistics, our institution is doing its job in a good way. Especially when we see that the regulation provides for 723 civil servants and tenants to be employed in the office, and with the last day of this reporting period, 581 were employed and as a woman, I cannot say that almost 80% are women. When obtaining funds from the state budget, about 700 thousand kuna have been denied and all planning and research has been completed in full. The purpose and reason for the existence and development of the statistical system should be focused on present and future users in order to meet their needs as high as possible. We therefore particularly commend the improvement in the existing and development of new indicators in the field of statistics, and since I am from Dalmatia, I must commend tourism statistics on the side of supply and demand. According to the 2012 annual implementation plan, a total of ten research and 2 multi-annual projects for the labour market were planned. All planned research has been conducted in full and in due time. However, as we have said, statistical research is not itself a purpose. These researches should have been a guideline to the government in which they go on the labour market but apparently the government either does not hear or see what these figures are showing us. Even today, after more than a year, the unemployment rate is increasing. Although the rate in the euro area is 12.1% and at the level of 28 EU members 10.9% in our country is as much as 21.6%. Even more tragic is the figure relating to the unemployment rate of young people. While Germany and Austria have 7% and 8%, respectively, in the Republic of Croatia is almost 50%. According to the number of unemployed, we are getting closer to Greece or Spain and the proposal for the annual implementation plan of the 2014 statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia will also support the HDZ Club. First, we can commend the time when this proposal came on the agenda and the debate in the Assembly. The annual implementation plan for 2012 was adopted in October 2012 that year in April and here we have this in early February. The programme is based on the needs of users and also on EU requirements. The same structure has been applied in the annual implementation plan as well as in the preparation of the 2013-2017 statistical activities programme. We are pleased that the time has finally come to publish and list the population, households and apartments from 2011. But it would be very good if the district units could also do publications at the county or regional level. A total of 300 statistical surveys are planned in addition to those on employees and salaries of household consumption, consumer price index and similar data in the Republic of Croatia are not available on the standard of living, Croatian cities or regions. No one does that except for the occasional press. What is the most expensive and cheapest city in Croatia? It is not known where the most expensive waste disposal or kindergarten price is without talking about the consumer basket, and it is about data that should be the basis for any further research on which social, demographic and economic policy should be based and which should be used by ministries and institutes. Earlier, an independent Croatian trade union worked as a consumer basket, but they say the population structure has changed. The basketball used to work on a four-member family and now the average three-member family and food habits have changed. They don't even have this data at the Economic Institute, even though everyone knows that this is what other countries have and that we used to have it. Today, unfortunately, in Croatia, at our economic institute, we prefer to deal with topics such as budget deficit, money supply, inflation, Pakistan case. Therefore, consider this observation and include this proposal for research in your plan bar in 2015. Finally, the HDZ Club will also support this 2012 report. However, we will take this opportunity and tell the Government to do everything to make sure that our Statistics Institute records as positive as possible and that we do not go to the EU as a bad example of Greece as we go from day to day as we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69144	Srdjan Gjurkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69145	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear colleagues, I'm glad you support this report statistically and plan of statistical activity. I can even agree with you that it would be good to do a consumer basket, to be as clear as possible, to say more transparently, to know what life is. What makes me happy to support this report is among other things because it is 21st of June 2012 and last year in line with the three-month GDP for the period from the first quarter of 2000 to the first quarter of 2012 and we are now killed with new alignment with the international and EUROSTAT respectively, and the situation that you are constantly talking about with the unemployed that this government does not know how to work much less than we did when we got in line with EUROSTAT, so you left us with the 2011 deficit of 24 billion and 7.8%, respectively, by a new methodology, which just shows that this reduction is independent and that we are entering the excessive deficit procedure this Croatian government knows how to reduce with just wanting to remind you that you have left us 7.8% of the deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69146	Replication response, Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69147	My colleague, I would remind you when your government took over the 2011 unemployment rate was 13.9% now 21.6%. We left you 238,000 unemployed and we have 380 grand today. If I'm not mistaken, or our Prime Minister today said your job is to secure all those unemployed jobs. I don't know who didn't do his job here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69148	And on behalf of HNS representative Jozo Radoš's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69149	Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister as well as Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. Here, coming here to the pay phone just before my colleague Juričev-Martinchev said this is a theme for blondes. I'm definitely not a blonde, that's what I look like. But what my colleague said is actually talking about how we treat statistics. From all these years, more than 5 hundred people and more than 100 million kunas spent, in fact we were more or less unnecessary because statistics and its contributions and possible benefits were actually untapped. So we say that statistics are the exact number of incorrect data or an incorrect number of accurate data, and it could be the exact number and the exact data, but it's always been, it's always been a false interpretation, an incorrect interpretation of the exact sum of the exact data or something. And statistics are actually very important, and if it can be used then it wouldn't be possible for a colleague to say that 330,000 are unemployed, and she forgets those 120,000 who were employed and didn't receive pay. How is that possible? Is it possible that there is such a category at all and whether statistics that do not include those 120 thousand workers who are de facto unemployed because they work and do not receive wages which is even worse, they may need to be counted twice, so that would be 120 times 2, 240, etc., right? If we had a good relationship with statistics then it wouldn't be slow whether the budget deficit was 7.9 when HDZ lost power or was 5.2. There would be no dispute over this, and then there could be no dispute over how much the deficit is now, and then there could be no dispute over why this public debt is today because it would necessarily stem from such a high deficit and a large public debt. But our relationship to statistics is such that we only use statistics as we need and how we need it, so it's logical that these statistics and their potentials are not being used properly. It states here that statistics as an activity, especially this official statistics achieved on principles of independence, impartiality, and to me may even be more important these criteria of quality of statistical reports, which are timeliness, clarity, availability and what is particularly important. Namely, if some information is not clear and is not comparable to any other data, then there is room for manipulation, interpretation, false interpretation, ultimately avoiding the truth and then avoiding responsibility. For example, our budgets for the last 20 years are difficult which is comparable to the other because they are all done in another way, constantly changing some of the structure of the state bodies and the structure of the budget, the way of reporting, the third level, the fourth level so that it is virtually impossible to monitor one budget compared to another, and often times even the budget rebalancing cannot be monitored in relation to the original budget because it was done by another methodology, and as soon as such data that are not statistics, but are very important official documents, are not comparable to each other there is then a natural problem. And so it's part of our difficulties because we don't know how to use the data properly, so then there's a space for manipulation, and of course manipulation can always be shown to be false and what's true and vice versa. The EU will certainly help us because it has given statistics a very important place because statistics help to make appropriate good decisions, it is the basis, of course, it can be useful from other aspects, but perhaps the most important dimension and characteristics of statistics is that it should enable insight into the right state and the basis for making the right decisions. In the Croatian Parliament, we never passed a law on how statistics should be implemented. I don't remember that law. However, the first 20 acts we received from the EU when we became a member, 3 concerned how statistics must be done. Statistics can't be done as anyone wants because then the space of manipulation is opened, and now that you look at what can be read here from these documents. There are therefore regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council, the EU's highest legislative acts on how some statistics should be done. So you have a Regulation on migration statistics, a Regulation on wages and labour prices, on wage statistics and labour prices, so the highest legislative act of the European Parliament and of the Council. You have a Regulation on the statistics of vocational training, you have statistics on the business of foreign companies, branches of foreign companies in EU member states, you have a Regulation on short-term statistics, the Information Society Regulation, the Tourism Statistics Regulation, etc. It speaks of how important statistics are, and I hope that we, here we will not pass our laws on how statistics are implemented because we have not passed them yet, but using these European laws, we will have better statistics, and I hope that we will use it better. In addition to these highest legislative acts, there are large numbers, almost every area of statistics, there is a special legislative act as to how these statistics are done to avoid manipulations, false interpretations, in order to enable them to suggest the best use of these statistics. There are, of course, lower implementation documents of EUROSTAT which are partly relied on by our DZS when doing our statistical reports in accordance with EUROSTAT recommendations, so there are specific documents on how it is done. I suppose that our DZS had such data, they had some methodology of application and implementation of statistical research, I suppose, would have been almost impossible to do relatively well in my assessment of the past years, but surely these documents of EUROSTAT, and in particular these highest legislative acts of the EU Parliament and of the Council, would help to make our statistics better, so I hope that then our discussions and our insight into what happened, which is going to be better, so there will be less room for manipulation and a false presentation of our own political work, which is one of the legitimate elements of politics but should be avoided as much as possible. These are the reasons why the HNS Club will support the Annual Report on the implementation of the 2012 statistical activity implementation plan and the 2014 statistical activity plan is a document detailing all programmes in which there is no such detailed analysis, procedures, conditions etc. but also a very useful document without further explanations. Of course, that document will be supported by the HNS Representatives' Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69150	The replica of Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69151	I'd like to thank the esteemed vice president. I have to tell my colleague, Radosh, that I wanted to look first at that discriminatory moment and the sexist one, although it didn't really sound like that, I probably should have rephrased to my colleague Juričev-Martinchev, but I overheard it somehow, but about the issues discussed by blondes. Regardless of whether they discuss blacks or blondes, sedoxes or blondes men on this subject I do not believe that it will be like many other topics in the Croatian public discourse treated with much more attention or in the years that come to us. There's something else I wanted to look back on, you said that we in the Republic of Croatia don't have a law that determines how statistics should develop. I would just remind myself that the Croatian Parliament has adopted a strategy for the development of statistics by 2022 and that we have the implementation plan four years to 2017 of statistical activities so that I think that I am the DZS and the Ministry of Science, which the Institute is subordinated is very much more seriously accessing this issue than the colleagues in the Parliament do, as well as the general public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69152	The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69153	I disagree with you, I am sure that statistics in Croatia and our relationship to statistics will certainly be better and more fruitful and we will know how to use statistics better. Maybe you think so, too, just thinking when it's gonna come, I hope that time won't be long because it's a shame that those data that are actually scientific. Mathematical statistics are a scientific activity, economic statistics, and this official statistics rests on science, and it is a shame that these data that it makes possible and makes the right decisions, so I hope and helps to avoid any unnecessary debates that we will still enter at that time. And the fact that you as a blonde talk so competently about statistics is still the hope that this time will not last that long.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69154	We end up with a little humor every night. Deputy Minister Sash Zelenika, final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69155	Well, I'd like to thank all the club representatives who will support these reports. Just a few more remarks based on the discussion. So one of the commitments that we made in the accession negotiations with the EU was that from 2009 to 2012 we increased the number of staff in the Bureau which did not happen because of the economic situation, so we needed the number of staff in the Bureau to increase by 100 I say by 2012 so earlier in the previous term, which would have reached an average of approximately the number of staff in the Bureau compared to the number of residents currently in EU member states. As far as legal bases are concerned, there is. So the Law on Official Statistics exists, was adopted in 2003 and amended in 2009 and 2012, based on UN methodologies, and then the EU is considering the way we take over. We are increasingly harmonising with the methodology and way of interpreting that EUROSTAT is doing so that our data are increasingly consistent, increasingly comparable at least to the EU Member States and therefore very much to read and learn. On this side it is significant that in recent times it is also something that is practically a few months in force, raw data of course anonymous, available at least for scientific purposes. So not only do the results of the analysis of the State Institute but the data collected can be used for scientific purposes and are available for some other research that is not only part of the work of the State Institute and associated institutions. The consumer basket is also mentioned here and some other analyses are partially conducted. In the dialogue with the social partners, they will try to do this even more systematically and implement and process it, and yet I say that, indeed, on the basis of accurate data, they could draw accurate conclusions. So that's what's called in English... It means decision-making based on facts and we all see that it's a pain, that often on the basis of not the most reliable information, then we come to conclusions. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] And I say that changes rapidly, really big shifts, and even through this strategy that my colleague mentioned, and the four-year plan of the State Institute's activities is really changing really rapidly, and so, of course, we're all going to have a much more well-founded basis for our decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69156	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report and the plan later. My colleagues and colleagues, tomorrow at 9.30, we will begin with the 2013 State Audit Office's work report and the audit reports and then, in turn, the revisions that are on the agenda. Thank you very much and good night!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-05-0.u69157	Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2012. The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. The 2012 Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted. Please state your proposed conclusion. Who's in? Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 113 votes for the proposed conclusion.
