ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u85565	My colleagues and colleagues have a good day and we'll continue the 14th session. Just a moment to make a deal at the beginning of how we're going to work. Today we'll do the first five points, and tomorrow we'll do points 6 and 7. Here you go, pal Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u85566	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I demand a five-minute break on behalf of the club because of the situation that is happening in the Neretva Valley with the ransom and the harvest of Mandarins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u85567	I'm setting a break to 9.43. [[It's 9:00.32.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:44 AM]] After a break requested by the Club of Representatives of the DC, Novi val and Independent Representatives Branovic and Martincevic, Petar Baranovic will give the presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u85569	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The topic I called a break on behalf of the club this morning may make some in Croatian politics trivial but very serious and very life-threatening. And it's actually a reflection of the general state in which this country and this society have been in for many years. This year we record an extremely good breed of mandarins about 80 thousand tonnes, Neretva, namely the Neretva valley painted in orange and in these circumstances every other regulated state would look forward, rejoice because it would mean additional income, it would mean prosperity, a better social picture in that region of the country, however, of course in Croatia it is a problem and it really is a problem, there is a drama going on down there. Some apologies for such a situation will be found in the fact that trade relations between the European Union, which is a Croatian Member State, but the real truth is that we have an absolutely wrong agricultural policy and a general economic policy in Croatia for 20 years. The truth is, we've led the matter to absurdity. The purchase price of the Mandarin, the conditions of the purchase and all that follows the final part of the production process is at such a level that these people are brought before the end. The value they gain for their work is so embarrassingly low that they can't even cover the cost of production. We have brought these people to the brink of destruction and the question is, why, because of our already visible sloppyness, lack of thoughtfulness, the concept of state-leading without strategies, or perhaps something else is the goal. Or perhaps the goal is to throw these people on their knees and put them in a position to place the years-old and country of their grandfathers on the market at very good prices. What message do we send to people who are truly working in this country, who are able to produce a product that is so happy to praise Croatian politics in better years regardless of party colors? What kind of message we send to people whose hands are lumpy of work and have an excellent complexion that is not obtained in the living room by the wellness centers in Zagreb, but on the plantations, from hard work. The apple harvest campaign begins, a ransom price of 1.30kn first class, a breed smaller, much smaller than last year. Production costs due to adverse climate conditions this year up to 25% higher, cost-effectiveness zero. We are not able to normally market and maintain the industry of apple and mandarin production. Then what are we gentlemen ready for? What measures is Croatia's policy ready to take at least palitative to prevent disaster, and what are we going to do as a general overall political scene to return the work to pedestal and hohstapplers to throw at the margins of this society? As long as we humiliate people who work hard and hard in this country, what limit does that extend to? Finally, one question in the context of the next debate, agenda points, by reading this strategy, I read one of the basic settings and this is the right to equal access to education in what way do ladies and gentlemen this year in the fall of freshmen from the Neretva Valley and Slavonian villages give us the right to access to education? What kind of money will their parents who work hard and hard all year long to send their children to school, what kind of society are we building, what kind of society do we maintain? What do we do to people who in this country have their backs bent out of work, how long will we function like this? We are not capable of hard work, rewarding people who even according to the words of politics and especially professions are ready and able to produce something that is of top quality. Shame on Croatian politics, shame on Croatian society. I openly urge the Croatian government to lay off part of the obligation for farmers to provide additional funds in the reserve for interventions and to save those people from the collapse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u85570	Thank you very much. Well, we've already warned several times when you're looking for a break for the club and when there are suggestions like this that you can do it either through parliamentary issues or through a proposal to put such a point on the agenda, to discuss it because then there's a greater possibility that a particular problem that you point to can be solved and a wider circle of MPs and club representatives can talk about it. So use other business opportunities because this way we can't solve any problems if only one club speaks for five minutes and the others either have no opportunities or have no such knowledge. So I'm instructing you to use other options in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u85571	On behalf of the HDZ Club, the word is now required by the esteemed Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u85572	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On the basis of Article 248, and given the alarming news that has appeared in our media, I request a break for the 15-minute session of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u85573	We'll get back to work at 1:00. I've been setting a break for 15 minutes. It's 12:45. We can continue our colleagues. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 13,00 HOURS]] This way, colleagues, we're continuing to work now because the break time is up. What? ... Until 13 o'clock, okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then I'll use these two minutes to say something before the break runs out. I already told this speaker once, we have a Rules of Procedure like we have, and the chairman has to approve a break for every club when the club asks for it, but the newspaper publishes alarming news every day. If every time we set a break on any alarming news, we'll never do the job that's ahead of us. I'm now, I'm running a session, I couldn't track the portals, of course because I ran a session, but I did it now at the break, at this stop. I found two alarming news, that... he hasn't appeared in public for a long time and that he doesn't know who's running North Korea and the other, the man in Manduvac, who's the mysterious gentleman who bathes every major one? That's two of the most romantic news I've ever found on the portals. I now ask the representative of the HDZ Club to introduce us to the alarming situation in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u85575	... Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for this inspired introduction. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] It's not about... but we're not even far from him. What's alarming, which perhaps you haven't found in the media, we've found and we'll draw your attention to it. And it's not even about the alarming news of HNS financing as a political party because it's a thing that is already, I would say, generally known. It is something else, it is the record of an investigation published by some of our portals, which talk about violations of the Republic of Croatia Constitution and the duties of top Croatian officials. So I will remind you in this time available that the inter-baseline values of the Croatian Constitution, as set out in Article 3 of the Government's right, that, on the basis of Article 81, it seems to me that the Government is responsible to the Parliament and for these reasons we are asking that the President of the Government appear here in front of the House and explain the following allegations. What is publicly available is that the Prime Minister has stopped with his political influence the police and criminal prosecution against the head of the tax administration, which is testified by one of our colleagues, that he has banned the prosecution and investigation procedure from being conducted against it by using his position as Prime Minister. So, according to witnesses, he said that against a certain lady, then the head of the tax administration, although there is a reasonable suspicion that she committed a crime, but that the interior minister cannot conduct investigations against her. This is about the government's morale that's headed us, this is about this second and different government you've announced, and this is about the scandal that the Prime Minister allows himself and takes the right to participate in police investigations, to give direct orders to whom he needs to, and who he doesn't process. Because of all this, and as for the time being, at least the reaction of the other media and these newspapers that you have read today, you have not found that news, and especially our public television, we are asking the Prime Minister to speak to Parliament about what happened in a particular case, whether these are correct and if they are, which is his political, if you want criminal responsibility in this case, and that the Croatian State Attorney's Office treats this as our criminal application and that, under official duty, investigates all the records that are publicly available to the entire Croatian public. It's nothing to do with North Korea, but I'm afraid we're getting closer and closer to it every day in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u85576	Here, after this alarming warning we continue to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87444	We will now move on to: - Proposal for a Strategy for Education, Science and Technology; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. When adopting the Strategy, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Since the government meetings are under way, the proposal for a strategy will be explained by the Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports Dr. Rocco Andricevic. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87445	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. We are protesting on behalf of the HDZ Club against this, and we are asking that this point be removed from the agenda because it is indeed enough now that the government's haughtiness, which itself suggested that the representatives will be Professor Morar as Minister of Science, and alternatively Professor Ruzica Belo-Lucic, Assistant Minister of Science. So other people are proposed, now it's simply someone third in charge of defending it from this House, and that it wasn't previously announced in the documents. It's simply unacceptable. Next time, they may send a porter, not wanting in any case to reduce either the deputy minister's dignity or anything, but he's not listed here and in front of this House they must speak to those that the government itself has proposed to defend this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87446	I don't think you're asking her to get off the agenda, but she's probably putting off the debate. ... If we take it off the agenda, we can't discuss it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What do we do now? ... A colleague, Jovanovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87447	Madam Vice-President, with respect to my colleague Reiner's remarks, however, I find it entirely unwarranted to ask that such an important item of the agenda be removed from the debate, as soon as the debate is likely to take place all day and, at some point after the cabinet's meeting, the minister will also join us and be able to make his observations that are important for the debate. Anyway when we talk about the opening statement, the Deputy Minister was also at the last session of the committee where he informed us about the course of preparations for this item of the agenda so that what Reiner proposed was just actually pushing back the demagogy and the difficulties of Parliament's work in one concrete way in which we should all show consensus and consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87448	Thank you. Then I call on Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports Dr. Roko Andricevic to explain the proposal. ... He can't appear because he can only speak to the minister and his deputy. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's in the Rules of Procedure. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87449	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government of the Republic of Croatia, the next initiative of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which together with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, developed guidelines for the development of the strategy, launched in October 2012. Work strategy of science and technology education. The creation of a strategy was carried out by 122 experts who worked voluntarily and under the coordination of the National Operational Authority and the supervisory supervision of the National Co-ordination Authority for the development of the strategy. During the work on the strategy, a number of consultations were held with different stakeholders of education and science systems, and after the working version of the document was presented to the public, a public debate which lasted two months and during which further talks were held with associations of school directors, Senates of the largest universities, rectorial assembly, HAZU, education unions, Croatian Association of Employers, Croatian Economic and craftsmen, public institutes, student representatives and other stakeholders of the system, as well as clubs of parliamentary representatives. Many suggestions and remarks have been accepted and the wording has been sent to the parliamentary procedure. The strategy is based on the premise that Croatia recognises education and science as development priorities. Starting from such an attitude that cannot be questioned, the strategy is directed towards the achievement of two main objectives: to ensure quality education available to all under equal conditions in accordance with the capabilities of each user of the system; to improve the overall global knowledge fund by research and innovation, and to contribute to the improvement of Croatian society and, in particular, to the economy. In order to achieve these objectives, the strategy introduces the concept of lifelong learning that applies to all activities of knowledge acquisition, skills, attitudes and values throughout life within the framework of personal, social or professional development and individual action. Lifelong learning consists of formal initial education and education through various forms of informal and informative learning. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to develop a system that will identify and encourage the development of each individual and direct it effectively, professionally and personally. In addition, it is necessary to improve, and in some parts of the system to build a quality assurance system to make sure that the envisaged measures are implemented as planned. It is necessary to develop processes and systems of recognition of informally and informationally acquired knowledge and skills in order to allow individuals the right to recognise their qualifications as soon as possible, regardless of how they are acquired. It is also necessary to build a system of permanent professional development and training of all educational staff. Finally, it is necessary to extend and improve the application of information and communication technology in learning and education at all levels. The strategy is a comprehensive document dealing with all levels of education and education, ranging from early and preschool to higher education and adult education, including science and technology. As such, it could also be formed as several separate strategies for each segment, but precisely a holistic approach to education and science guarantees systematic and quality implementation of the envisaged measures for the whole system. Now let's just point out some of the essential elements of the strategy. The primary and secondary education and education segment provides for a full curricula reform, which means not only the development of curricula for individual subjects, but also a change in the structure of primary education, a different approach to teaching teachers, raising their social reputation, quality management of educational institutions, developing systems of support for pupils, improving the working conditions of institutions. At the level of secondary education, special care is devoted to vocational education which needs to become significantly more than is now the cornerstone of economic growth. In addition, the goal is to place a child, i.e. a student, in the focus of the educational process, which has not so far been the case by developing his basic competences. Higher education provides for the revision of student programmes in order to implement their rationalisation and to clearly define learning outcomes, raising the quality of teaching and management of higher school institutions, improved funding based on high-school programmes guaranteeing autonomy with appropriate responsibility. Support for student standards should be improved in a way that moves from indirect funding to direct, resulting in more rational use of funds with better care about the social dimension of study. The strategy pays special attention to adult education, in which Croatia is significantly lagging behind other European countries, and provides for measures to increase adult participation in all types of education, while raising the quality of education programmes. The chapter on science highlights, among other things, the need for stronger integration of science, higher education and an innovative economy. The measures provide for raising the quality of research, but also rationalising the use of financial resources. The strategy ends with a chapter on guidelines for its implementation which also provide for mechanisms for raising social awareness of the importance of education and science, which is an important condition for the successful implementation of the envisaged measures. Croatian society must be mobilised in a sincere effort to improve the education system because it is important for the future of all and mainly children and young people. This strategy is not narrowly time-limited because some goals require very long deadlines, while some targets can be achieved relatively quickly. Education and science are systems that are sensitive and sudden, insufficiently prepared changes can cause serious harm. As a result, the strategy provides for the development of action plans through project planning, which will be precisely established for each segment as to what human, material and financial resources are needed to achieve it and within what time period. By defining this strategy, Croatia is launching long-term systematic care for education and science as its national and development priorities that will allow its citizens to live a better and more fulfilling life. The long-term tasks of the Croatian Parliament will be to periodically consider achieving strategic objectives and assess whether the strategy should be complemented or corrected. This is the only way to achieve the two main objectives of the strategy through the joint action of all stakeholders of the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87450	Thank you. Now we'll hear the replicas, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87451	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, I believe that at this point we do not have the conditions to open this debate because Article 187, 184, forgive our Rules of Procedure clearly states who may speak on behalf of the motionor. So, the ones that are marked. Unfortunately, Mr. Deputy isn't marked. We could have waited for the government's meeting to end and then the minister to come and discuss it. But anyway, whatever the debate is, it's open. Why do I think the minister must have been present at the beginning and debated this important document all the time? Because in many places in the strategy, there is talk about the dignity of those who will implement the strategy, which is where they will rest, and these are the breeders, teachers, teachers. So, those who are pillars of that strategy today and tomorrow. The fundamental issue now ahead of the rebalancing of the Croatian state budget is the adoption of the budget for next year. Based on experience from the past years and the past and how much I remember it was a question of when we had to find funds for the salaries of employees in the education and science system. The fundamental question today is, Mr. Deputy, whether we will have enough money to pay by the end of this year and whether the salaries of those whose dignity depends and how the strategy will be implemented will be reduced by the end of this year and in the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87452	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87453	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here, I am absolutely in agreement with what she said and Mrs. Kosor's distinguished representative. Maybe I should just fill it in. Article 174 clearly states that the legislator is obliged to inform the President of the Assembly who, in the working bodies and the Assembly, will provide the notices, explanations, or the necessary explanations on the proposed law. So, we're breaking this, knowingly breaking it, you're breaking our Rules of Procedure. Of course it can be done because the government has concluded so, and of course it can be understood that the minister will have time to turn around here, etc. But that's, that shows only the government's relationship to this High House. What I'm trying to say, however, is that we're like a club and we're telling the President of the Parliament that unfortunately we now have three strategies in this agenda. Strategies that are not based in the Constitution or in the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately, we have also suggested that this matter be resolved. In particular, Article 80 of the Treaty on the The constitution is prescribed that the Croatian Parliament brings two strategies. It is a strategy of national security and a strategy of defence of the Republic of Croatia. The Parliament's Rules of Procedure then discusses a Committee on Economy which can adopt an economic development strategy and a Committee on Tourism that brings the Strategy for the Development of Croatian Tourism. However, there is a strategy with a little letter written which indicates that it is not actually a formal document, but actually a policy direction So, we have pleaded that in making all the strategies go to what they have no strategy, unfortunately neither these three are now in the agenda, and this is the same methodology of creation, comparable structure, chapter, points, subpoints, etc., uniform nomotechnical expression and content, the same kind of roof denominator because some are long-term, some are migration, etc., the same language etc. That's what we officially suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87454	My colleague Reiner, you honor me for breaking the Rules of Procedure and you have violated the Rules of Procedure in your entire replica because you have not replicated at all who has had the presentation, even outside the subject we are discussing... You can ask for a break. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Does a representative of the board want to take a word for it? President of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, colleague Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87455	Good morning, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. At its meeting of 9 July, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed the proposal for a strategy for education, science and technology in a very substantive debate. With 8 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept the proposal of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy. But the Committee also unanimously proposed that the proposal be commissioned to draw up a summary of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy. On the basis of this, the Committee held another session on 3 October where we were presented a summary of the strategy, and in the same meeting, given some changes that took place within the specific observations from the public debate, certain amendments were made on behalf of the Committee. I would not read them now, it is about amendments to the introduction of new content that will develop information, financial and media literacy especially in primary school. It is the amendments that are just now related to vocational education and greater integration with the labour market and are about amendments where precisely defined deadlines of the strategy are replaced by deadlines in the action plan. But the Committee also tasked the authority in charge of drawing up an action plan prior to the submission of the final version of the action plan to the Committee of Action Plan and to task the Government to submit the deadlines within the action plan when adopting the action plan. And one set of amendments that goes to ensure that the most endangered parts, and this is especially about the Roma national minority, are given adequate access to education at all levels to the university. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87456	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club Vice President Željko Reiner. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87457	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. At first, I would like to make it very clear once again that several of us have been saying that this is an important issue and how important education is or should at least be important, and then it is more unacceptable, I repeat, the arrogance and arrogance of the Government that those representatives they have proposed and wrote us here do not see, contrary to Article 174. The Rules of Procedure of this Parliament. It's just once again that I don't know what times the government's relationship to the Parliament is. Not only to us opposition MPs, but also to representatives from our own parties. So I expect them to at least think about what their government's relationship is with them. What are the problems that exist with this strategy? I'm going to talk about those formal-legal natures again. The government has also made its usual combination of boastfulness and ignorance to which we have long been used to delivering a proposal to the Assembly which, contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, contains neither the constitutional nor the legal basis for its adoption nor anything else on which it could be assessed as its legal basis and value. So if the Parliament once again, as well as a number of previous times, thanks to the votes of the ruling obedients and subjects according to the current fully incompetent government, we are very interested in what existing law will be called upon. Also, it's not clear what reading is about. Now we've heard it's about another reading. How's that? Is that the only reading? If that's the only reading that's the legal basis of it? By common arrogance, the Government also violated Article 215(1). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which determines, quote: "If reports, acts and other information is longer than 30 pages, a summary shall be provided to representatives. The summary shall contain all the essential items of the basic material and the applicant shall be obliged to deliver it to the Assembly at the same time as the basic material." In addition to the proposal for a strategy submitted to the Assembly on 3 July, there was no such summary. Only when the Committee on Education, Science and Culture asked for this mandatory summary to be drawn up literally days before today’s session. On October 1st, the board members, but not then and all parliamentary representatives, delivered a text that is not called a summary but is called a presentation of the objectives and measures on page 19, which is actually not a real summary of the strategy but is likely to try to convince the public that it is. The next legal problem is the extra-institutional and illegal way of creating this strategy. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools proposed by this Government and adopted by this Parliament, which entered into force on 4 August 2012, set out that the National Council for Education and Education should propose a strategy for the development and improvement of pre-school, primary and secondary education. However, 2.5 months later, the same government that proposed this law obviously changed its mind at least partly and made its decision as of 17 October 2012, which indicated the legal basis, is Article 24 and paragraphs 1 and 3. The Government Act is therefore the subject of this decision to establish an occasional government working body for the submission of proposals, opinions or professional arguments from the government's section, I stress the Government. In this decision, once a completely different body, the National Operational Authority is tasked with drawing up a strategy for education, science and technology to quote: "Compose a proposal for the final text of the strategy of education, science and technology". And the third body of the National Co-ordination Body for the development of an education, science and technology strategy to quote: "Determin the objectives of the strategy and determine its final text." Both of these strategies as subject to the arrangements have the same education. The National Council for Education and Education has a foothold in the law for the development of its strategy, and the adoption of a strategy of education, science and technology that is now ahead of us does not actually have a foothold in the law or in any other legal act but only in the political decision of the Government which the Parliament did not verify. Is this incredible confusion in the government a reflection of the ignorance, incoordination or total incompetence of the current government? Will the representatives of the ruling parliament finally dare to ask themselves the question of how long their government will so fail them and why the will of the Croatian Parliament is so bypassed in the law that this Croatian Parliament passed in 2012. Why is the other body's and other proposings' strategy to be offered to the Parliament now that regulates the same area? However, when the rule of law is little and they are constantly being violated, both by the current government and by the ruling majority in this House, let us also deal with the measure of things. One of the major problems is that the education, science and technology strategy should emerge from a non-existent Croatian development strategy and should be complemented by other strategic documents that also do not exist. For example, it is not clear what economic branches through the education system should encourage and further develop human resources for them because there is no strategy for the economic development of Croatia, and we all know that there is no coordination with the visions of the development of other segments of society, because they do not usually exist. The strategy as a document should be the highest, comprehensive and therefore the principled programming text describing what is being achieved and how a particular area wants to develop further. It should be seen and defined what is in the system well and what needs to be fixed. Based on the analysis of the current situation, the purpose of change should be defined and short-, medium- and long-term objectives set. On the basis of each strategy, an action plan is later developed. The strategy, however, ceases to be a strategy if it contains elements of the detailed implementation plan as it must remain general, short and clear. The government's proposal for a strategy of the incredible and quite over-expanded 190 pages ahead of us is certainly not. This document contains the elements of a large number of earlier elaborates and documents showing that they are authors, and they are, many of them very prominent at the head of prominent Professor Budak, indeed made a great effort to study earlier studies on this area, but instead of extracting only strategic provisions that would then make a real strategy simply classify too many elements, so they have received a document containing elements and strategies, and action plan, and implementing acts. Just one mix of everything and everything. One example is therefore the part of higher education where all possible elements of the number of study programmes, number of higher education institutions, methods of financing institutions, institution management and many others are mixed. Apparently, the authors of the strategy and the government that proposes it succumbed to unrealistic, normative optimism, are in fact deluded by a single document that can actually achieve even formal 38 goals, and there is a huge discrepancy. Of the 38 objectives mentioned, there are no sub-targets, but the remaining 18 objectives have a total of 69 sub-targets, and these 69 sub-targets and 20 objectives mean that the strategy's proposed goal is actually to achieve as many as 89 objectives. Do the promoters really think that this is realistic? In order to achieve these 89 objectives, the strategy proposal plans to implement as many as 332 measures. For example, the large internal discrepancies of this document also points to the fact that for the achievement of all 5 lifelong learning objectives, no single measure is provided for, while, for the achievement of only one other sub-target, there are as many as 21 measures. In this regard, it should be noted that the implementation of all 332 measures of the strategy is more than 6 hundred legal persons. In its expert literature, it is said that each strategy should be given, I stress once again, a general approach, so there should be a document that needs to describe the overall plan of action, but that it is mandatory to avoid listing individual actions. Again, the specific measures to be taken to take the desired outcomes are not a strategy but tactics and are adopted in the form of action plans and implementing documents. So the proposal for a strategy from its 190 pages and 332 measures is an example of how the strategy really shouldn't look. The proposal for a strategy has very unevenly deployed and unrealized deadlines of which the vast majority refers to 2016 and later. In combination with the fact that the strategy proposal is completely unclear so that different unrealistically optimistic objectives should be financed, why it will require large investments in the system of education and science, incomparably greater than the current government has invested in recent years, it is clear that the current government has a clear idea of what this strategy wants to achieve, or what is its main objective. She wants to vote today on this document which will be able to wave in 2016 and later because its almost complete implementation and commitment to significant financing are being transferred by a series of deadlines to the next government, and then the SDO will be led by an opposition because they know that the next elections will be lost, they will be able to accuse the future HDZ headed by the government of not meeting the objectives set out in this strategy. I would like to make it clear that the HDZ Club can agree globally with the important, general principles set out in this proposal, but definitely not with the whole document because it represents only a set of beautiful desires and does not have much to do with Croatian reality, especially the one related to the financial situation and not just today, but also in the near future. So who wouldn't want to, quote, raise the quality of work and the social reputation of a teacher? Or who doesn't want, I quote again, to develop a whole system of support for students as outlined in the strategy's proposal? Of course we're all for it, but that's just nice words and promises that won't come true, and there's a lot of colorful lies for Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, this document does not say at all that these fine intentions will be achieved, how they are intended to be achieved, so there is a legitimate fear that all of this will remain just another dead letter on paper as well as many other documents that have been brought up to date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87458	Now we'll hear the replicas. Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87459	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Reiner, it's a good thing that at the end of the campaign you said that you were at least agreeing with the important points of this strategy because from your entire exposure so far, I wouldn't have quite concluded it. But what we need, I mean here as representatives and people responsible for the citizens who chose us, decide whether we need this strategy or not. I say it is, I say it comes 23 years too late. And why so far we haven't had a strategy, colleague Reiner, is that a question for me or anyone sitting on this side of the assembly, maybe we all need to ask ourselves. Perhaps we should ask ourselves why we are talking about something, so we are talking about entrepreneurship, and about the economy, and about industrial development, we are only now, in this term, 23 years after we have the state. As far as I know, fellow, in such documents as we discussed in this House, there was always one reading, there were no two readings, so when it came to this strategy of entrepreneurship development which, I'm very glad to say, we had a consensus, we had several abstentions. The complaints they made on the board, I will commend the promoter, or group that worked, almost everyone is a respected, dear colleague. When you said there was no possibility of intervention in the strategy, that the government had already adopted, the promoter agreed, though it may be out of business, it is not strictly as our Rules of Procedure dictated, but you had opportunities, some amendments were respected, in fact almost all the objections that were respected have entered the strategy. So just to get a development strategy, colleagues, because this is a development strategy and I think we can agree that the education strategy is actually the result of overall development. I'm going to say something more about that and in my individual discussion. So, I wish we could agree and not force it with techniques, but that this is an important document and I'm very glad that we will have a periodical opportunity to monitor its realization and change it, any government, this, next and all that will come after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87460	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87461	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague Hajdukovic, you're wrong if you think it's just techniques. It's interesting how they seem to be technical now, in some other situations we're literally picking up marks. It's not technical, it's true. The truth is, it's not right for us to discuss it here past the Rules of Procedure, which is what we're discussing, and I want to say it one more time, and I'm going to repeat it multiple times because if the government couldn't provide the representatives she suggested here, I don't think it's even correct to put a deputy minister who isn't authorized to perform in front of this House to read someone else's text. It's just not right. If it's really on everyone's heart like you say and some of your colleagues, I think it should be on everyone's heart, I think it's very important, that the education strategy is very important, I agree with you that it's not good that so far many strategies have not been adopted, but we haven't even brought much more important strategies, so we still engage in some strategies that are actually segmental. We don't have a strategy for Croatia's development, we don't. We don't have a strategy for economic development in Croatia, we don't. And that's the same problem. I absolutely agree with you, but I'm going back to the point, it's not just technicals from afar when the law is clearly violated and when the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament is violated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87462	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87463	Dear Mr. Reiner, you have repeatedly pointed out in your debate that Mr. Deputy Minister Roko Andricevic here is not authorized to perform here nor present the bill by referring to the provision of Article 174. The Rules of Procedure, because the Government is obliged to determine who will speak in its name before the Parliament and before that before the working bodies. You must know that this strategy was sent to the Croatian Assembly on July 3rd 2014, so when Mr. Roko Andricevic was not yet appointed Deputy Minister. But that's even less important. I think you've forgotten, and so much you've pleaded to the law and respect for the law, to the fundamental law, the Law on the System of State Administration, Article 40, paragraph 4, I see you're already raising your answer, and you haven't heard what I'm about to tell you, Deputy Minister, so please listen, Deputy Minister, it's a general standard that comes in any case. The deputy minister replaces the minister in the event of his absence, prevention and performs other tasks entrusted to him by the minister. So, in any case, when there's no minister, he's prevented, his deputy comes along... by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87464	Replication response, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87465	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, the Honorable Madam Representative, Ingrid Anticevic, first of all, has not been informed of this House. I could agree with you that a notice came from the government in that sense, but it didn't, but of course it didn't. But we're coming back to what I represent, and you obviously don't, and that's that in this country for many years now, it's actually the Supreme Body, not the Government. The government stems from the parliament, the parliament appoints a government and the Parliament is directly elected by the people, and the government elects this parliament. Unfortunately, in today's political situation, it has not been so for almost three years and it is saddening. Well, this opportunity just shows that it is, and there is only one more proof of that sad fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87466	Željko Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87467	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Reiner, I would really like to appeal to you, to all my colleagues in the Parliament, to stop discussing why the deputy minister is here and to concentrate on this subject. Respecting the heights of 120 experts who are just because professional people without a single kuna have drawn up this strategy. Let's concentrate on this strategy because it is indeed a strategy for all strategies, a strategy that depends on the development of the Croatian state. Let's stop saying we don't have this strategy why we bring this one. Well, you know, whenever we've passed laws concerning education and science for the past 2.5 years that your remark has been, don't pass the laws because you don't have a strategy. Now we have a strategy and it's still not good that we have. And I would remind you as an academic, a member of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, that the HAZU has drawn up guidelines that were the basis for this strategy, that all the ministers who were from the HDZ, who were at meetings at the Ministry of the Academy of Kostović via Ms Ljilja Vokić, were consulted in the preparation of this strategy until the last one in a series of Mr Fuchs who supported this strategy and at meetings closed to the public, gave absolute praise to the strategy, but as soon as the debate opens up to the public, we need to get back to the cheap political points, and to mark the essence of this strategy that we really needed to show the Croatian public once that in this Assembly we can talk without cheap political points and demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87468	The reply to the replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87469	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think we should absolutely talk without cheap political demagogy and there should be a consensus, but for a consensus we always need two sides, but unfortunately your side in the rules always falls behind in that case. When you mentioned names, so here you pulled it out, the first pages listed 192 names in a total of 25 bodies. However, when compared to the number of authors, it is shown that 137 of them have been repeated 85 times by 30 of them, they should have been given the weight of what you are referring to. But it doesn't matter at all, I agree, the distinguished names agreed on this strategy, but we're talking about the product. And of course HAZU gave the initial elements, all people did it well on purpose, but we talked about the product. Is the product really a strategy? You know what a Finnish strategy looks like, you know how many pages a Finnish strategy has, it doesn't have 190 pages. So that's what we're talking about, and I agree if we're going to talk about exactly that, not flossulas, not talking about how a lot of respectable people have done it, and now we all need to be thrilled about it. Well, that's why we're here to talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87470	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87471	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Reiner, one of your major remarks in the presentation was how this strategy crosses its frameworks and goes into the jurisdiction of those documents that should come from the strategy as far as I understand it. So what's very important here is that the strategy very clearly defines the objectives, this imbalance that you're saying is not every goal followed by measures is not so important because if we look at only the essence of what the strategy is resting on, and that's always an analysis. We today have a society where there are many members of this society who, despite completing formal education, do not have sufficient competence to participate in the labour market. And on the other hand, there's a large number of people who don't even have that formal education, even lower levels of education. The success of every society is actually based on technology, innovation and when we talk about the development of a society, we talk about the technological degree it is at. And then we can meet in a vicious circle as you say. If you decide to adopt an education strategy because other strategies have not been adopted then we can say we are so satisfied with the state we have, so we will not change anything in the education system because we do not have such needs at this time. In fact, then we'll always stay in the state we're in. And I think it's a little bit like this and a little bit too much of an exaggeration you said as psychic Milan that the government was bringing this strategy so that later when we got in position, we could wave with it. I think it's too much and it's really not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87472	The reply to the replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87473	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, let's start from the end, dear representative, yes, I think so, and you'll convince me when you'll be voting on budget rebalancing in a few days. So if you're going to give science and education three times as much money, I'm going to get you up here in public and admit that I was wrong. That's one thing. Secondly, you said that based on analysis and that there should be an analysis, it was one of the problems of this strategy and the respected Professor. A fool who knows very well that I kept looking for it and presupposed it and that analysis was made but only after all, it was made a post-festum instead of being first done. And some things from that analysis could be discussed, and we'll probably talk about it. But I'm going back to the first thing you said that it doesn't matter what there is discretion, that it doesn't matter that there are huge goals that have no sub-targets and some much smaller ones that have terribly many sub-targets. Ha, you hear, if such distractions exist, then we need to ask ourselves what's the reason for them and whether that's the best solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87474	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87475	Thank you very much. We discussed our colleague Reiner about a year ago about the Health Development Strategy in the Republic of Croatia and then we had a similar discussion. We know that after this adoption, and the Health Strategy adopted by the parliamentary majority, so the position is seen in which direction and how health care is developing in the Republic of Croatia and that this strategy does not really have any significance in the development of health care in the Republic of Croatia. But when it comes to education, science, and technology, it is best to ask those who work in education. I have a lot of friends in schools, teachers, teachers, professors, and believe me, almost all of them have any other place in view of underestimation and given the wages and given the status of their own who are willing to flee from this sector. How do you implement the strategy if you do not have the material resources to implement the strategy? Not at all. So it's a document that actually, in some ways, is, I won't say absurd but so hanging in the air. We would like to see here and as you yourself have said to our minister who is still kind of refreshing in this government, let's just say that if I say or a sort of refreshment like Pope Francis in the Vatican is whether but maybe it's too much to talk about but here he is gone and we'd like to talk to him like you said in the mustache to say everything that this strategy actually says, that this strategy is hard to implement, everything that's written here. It's a list of good wishes and nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87476	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87477	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague Grubisic, it is good that you mentioned another strategy because that is exactly what we have indicated and what we have written asked the President of the Parliament to do, and that is to bring about the way in which the strategy should be brought in this Assembly because they are brought in a completely authoritative way and completely different. Here's the best example of these two strategies. The health development strategy was such a thick book, which seemed to me the last 14 or 17 pages were just a vision of the future, everything else was an analysis of the current situation. This Strategy is 180 pages of the vision of the future whether I agree with it or not, whether or not parts of it. And there's no analysis of the current situation that was then produced only later. And it best shows how messy there is in this problem the strategy that all this Parliament brings. All this Parliament brings. And that's why we pleaded to create a methodology of strategy, structure, nomotechnical expression, the duration of strategies. Because some of those strategies that we've been bringing are, say, 30 years, some last 5 years, completely different from each other, etc. And that's what we asked for to be done, to break up with a state where every document can be glued to a strategy label, I'm not talking about this document in particular right now, I'm talking about other people who aren't at all. Some are development plans, some are programs, some are strategies, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87478	Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87479	Dear counterpart Reiner, a law that allows Deputy Minister Roko Andricevic to be among us today, brought this Parliament, not the Government. It is the Law on the System of State Administration, something my colleague Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic said about. In organised parliamentary democracies, it is not the legislative authority above the executive, but there is a balance between the legislative, executive and judicial authorities. It is bad for the legislative authority to lose the character of a government that is in balance with those authorities or any other government, but none of these three forms of government should be above the other two authorities if it is true democracy. Thirdly, you've been saying it seems unfounded to me that this government, and even this assembly majority, don't follow the law, and as you said, seems to me regular. I would remind you, however, that you said that on behalf of a party who has been unlawfully convicted of a serious violation of the law or people's terms for robbery and that this is a unique case in political practice in Europe and the world, I would say. So, a little measurement wouldn't miss any of us. I especially appreciate you, but as far as I know, I'd like you to be more measured in your findings.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87480	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87481	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Of course you're gonna drag things into another one, but here's an argument about how it went against the law. Last Friday, the Parliament voted against the new National Health Council and that the old National Health Council had its mandate, which was legally laid down for 4 years, by no law based on a reason that had previously been resolved, what the law requires, completely ignoring the legal provisions, was voted upon by a new politically similar health council. Here's a fresh example of a direct violation of the law by this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87482	On behalf of the Club, a representative of Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, a colleague of Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87483	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, Professor Budak, colleagues and colleagues. I have not spent so much time preparing for any of the debates so far, nor have I read so many different views for any debate, and in any discussion we have not had the opportunity to streamline, cross opinions or agree with more experts than this debate today on the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology. On one side, a general-type politician, and on the other, a hundred experts, professors, doctor of science, headed by Professor Neven Budak. Experts two years working on the strategy, and we only consider all other obligations and duties a day or a few weeks to prepare. I admit, it's quite an unfair competition or a game, even if it's friendly. I joined the education strategy as well as the intriguing book, whose content suggests. What will the authors of the strategy come from? There is no doubt, from a detailed record of the situation and to it will be compared to the likes of us, to the best or possibly the worst. I was wrong, there's no detailed record of the situation. What experts, scientists, teachers, teachers, students and students think about the Croatian education system, Croatian science and technology, about the state of things, I tried to find out from various other sources. I've come to the knowledge that no one is satisfied in science and education. Students and students complain that they are overloaded by material, teachers and teachers complain that they are either low or minorly paid for which they have also been striked, and businesses in production complain that schools and colleges do not receive staff who are working independently. And the state of science is witnessed in the world by the recognized and esteemed Ivan Djikić, and I quote: "The situation in Croatian science is critical because the system is collapsing from the inside. There is no critical mass that wants to change. Most of them support the status quo, they're scrambling for the benefits so far, and they care little about scientific excellence. There are fewer dedicated scientists who achieve valuable results, but they are in a vast minority. However, those who lose most of their young scientists by retaining their present condition. The high-quality ones are going abroad in an increasing number, and those who remain in Croatia are losing hope that something will change and accept compromises and lose their own ideals and visions." I think this is an unnecessary comment. Although 9 out of 10 professors argue that students and students are overly burdened with facts of learning by heart, although both former ministers and the current minister claim, nothing or very little is changing. How is it possible that everyone is against drumming, and no one is doing anything to keep the drumming in schools and colleges away or to be more acceptable? Or that is why, in schools and universities, troubles approach and application of acquired knowledge in practice are systematically and intentionally neglected. Why is that? It's not hard to answer that question. Each government, and this has been said before, each minister from the least bad to the worst has their own vision of education, but no government and no minister has left a deep reformer trail. The lesser ones succeed, often not by their own fault, to sort things out halfway. The bad ones remain on promises and unconstitutional solutions. And to make a good strategy for science and education, a strategy that would lead to the most significant segment of one community, science and education, the basis of economy and production, and most importantly healthy, moral, fair society, there must be no authority and opposition, left and right. The strategy must be considered jointly and adopted jointly and, of course, implemented in several mandates with several governments. In one of the texts in higher education, the distinguished professor has several calls for a model American education system that is of course inadmissible in us and that Finns and Norwegians would take as an example that should not be followed here and why. With 7 million illiterate Americans, more than 25 million people do not know how to read well enough to fulfill their application for employment, some 50 million read as students in the 4th or 5th grade of primary school. And what exactly is the truth about the American education system that is our teacher's role model? The truth doesn't matter at all and what it really is, the truth doesn't matter at all. In most of this, someone will say modern cultures, especially in politics, those who create the most convincing imaginations or delusions. That old unmodern culture is rooted in knowledge, in production, in nature. New culture is rooted in consumption, in personality. The shift is from a firm, today completely suppressed morality toward skill and cunning. Knowledge, work, honesty, and courage have caved in to charms of fascination and affection, and this is because the elite universities with contempt refer to fair, intellectual curiosity and curiosity, which is naturally untrustworthy of authority. Such and most elite universities are organised in such a way that they place narrowly specialized disciplines in the service of a single one, according to the most successful ideologies so far, those neoliberal ones that should not or should not be questioned more precisely. It is not too bad to say that the recent failure of the economic and political system is closely linked to the encroachment of humanistic and social sciences. These attacks in Croatia are only in the bandages, in the hints, but these signs are compounded by the veil of the crisis becoming more and more frequent. The education system cannot be subject only to the market. Croatia must give or give citizens more than what the market is looking for. We need to educate people who are critical of social and political processes. School instruction must not be retained and limited to skills, values must be taught. In the U.S. education after Auschwitz, Theodore Adorno wrote that moral corruption, which allowed the implementation of the Holocaust, survived largely unchanged, and that it must be discovered, examined and criticised by the mechanisms that made people able to perform a misdemeanour like those in Auschwitz. Today's dominant system, called corporate democracy or corporateism, is about stifling the ability of moral choice and removing individuals in order to force it into a seemingly coherent community, which is precisely an educational system. And this system trains people who are tasked with analysing solutions, finding solutions that will reflect exactly corporateism. Of course, you should also be educated for the labour market, but also for especially at universities to meet social needs. We must never interfere with the idea that education serves the truth more and less satisfying personal needs. The strategy talks in a very acceptable way and about lifelong education, because initial education has never been enough, and especially not today at a time of rapid change, so we must learn our whole lives. We need to qualify, requalify, learn, constantly acquire new knowledge. Besides having children through primary and secondary school education, young people have to gain competence with entrepreneurship. The most important thing is to teach them how to learn, the most important thing is how they can educate themselves, how they can be successful auto-dedicators. Although education is becoming increasingly competitive, why competence is not at a special price in a policy where, according to that famous Lenin flossula, everyone can do anything without learning and without torment and without science. How difficult it is to predict what interests we will need and what skills we need for 10 or 20, and even less in 50 years, we need to arm generations with basic knowledge without which there is no quick and good application, and no change. How in Croatia the system works like a ragged, attractive orchestra where conductors constantly change notes even though they often don't know how to read these notes themselves, I don't understand why we don't learn from other better, experiencedly more advanced ones. Is it so complicated to study Finnish, say the best model in the world, that model of education. I do not believe that he is inapplicable in Croatia as a team as the schooling of students and students is cheaper in Finland by 30% than schooling students and students, for example, in the United States. And of course, in Finland, schooling is really free. We are not free of charge or compulsory primary education, because it is not free transportation, are not often free books, is not a free diet at school, is not free basics. The problem is he'll say a lot of money. We're in a crisis, but aren't we in a crisis because we treat the education system like we do sometimes and it's like a luxury. Croatia invested less in education in 2012 than in 2002 when 3.71% of GDP was allocated for education. We started to pursue European and world standards in 2009 when Croatia set aside 4.33% of GDP for education. But the following year, he's been correcting the detachment on the Balkan scale. In 2013 3,21% were invested in education and in this year it will only be a crumb of more than 3%. In 2015, unfortunately, we'll drop below 3%. How many other European countries stand out for education. The richest and most social ones, but the richest ones are because they stand out the most for education. Denmark invests in education almost 9%. Crisis-stricken Iceland almost 8%, Sweden and Norway more than 7%. Their investment is worth twice as much. Also neighbouring Slovenia invests in education almost twice as much as Croatia does in both Estonia and Lithuania and Latvia. The growth differences are obvious. Every country and so should Croatia benefit from free of charge or, as is the case with us, half-free education. And so poor with such a modest separation for education, and everything except that money doesn't have us acting like drunk millionaires. Although we are poor, like a church mouse, we are educated, for example, doctors for wealthy British people, for wealthy Swedes, for rich Norwegians, for wealthy Canadians. They all harvest the fruits of our torments and November sciences, because after schooling highly educated young people can choose the stock market or abroad. As the door enters the EU, far richer countries are educated young people wide open. Discussing the proposed Education and Science Strategy should be discussed and advocated for the high autonomy of universities, but above all by those who produce results. The political development of Croatia for which we verbally advocate, and in practice we schedule the requirement and establishment of regional universities and universities that should be both a promoter and an engine for the development of these regions. In Croatia, however, there are more than 1300 study programmes. Not to mention, many are similar. It is not a problem if studies are similar, if they overlap with programs at different universities and universities. But unfortunately, similar study programs are being opened within the same university, which is irrational and confusing. It is, of course, necessary to review existing study programmes and determine whether there are too many and most importantly whether they satisfy the content. So the bigger problem than the number of universities is their profiling. The strategy initiates a discussion of character, about the length of primary schools described in the evaluations and whether they should exist at all. The Finns are not prone to any evaluation but only always to learning, or teaching. Does she need a national prom and what if she needs one? The question is once again why only acquired knowledge is being checked at prom, and why competences are not being determined. Which is why, on the very doorstep of the university, everything comes down to the memory of facts. The special chapter of the strategy is Bologna, which is being led by controversy at the highest level these days. Everyone agrees that Croatia, the application of Bologna, is bad, and that it needs to be changed, but no one takes responsibility for what has been done badly and that generations of students have been abolished. Who is responsible for the suspension of Croatia? For two years, a debate on a strategy that should not have been adopted by the Milanovic government at the end of the term at all, especially without agreement and agreement, should have taken place by a simple revote. If there is a revote, the new government will ignore the strategy and start working on its new strategy, which will not again commit that other or third power. Missed are those who have hurt many generations. Even though the failures of the bologna are written on paper, the other is carried out in practice, everyone knows everything, no one will do any harm as soon as possible. First of all, it is necessary to correct the general attitude towards science and education, and the policy attitude towards education, but also the attitude of scientists, or professors, towards the system in which they work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87484	Željko Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87485	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Vuksic, I think we should point out one more time because what you said at the beginning turns out that this strategy has fallen from the sky. So it's completely wrong. At the beginning of the strategy was preceded by very detailed analytical work and of course in the first version that came to Parliament that part was not in the document because the page would be over 500. But the analytical basis exists, the basis of this analytical background set out the objectives and guidelines and then came from the whole text that we have on the benches. And I actually wish that one day Mr. Budak and the members of the operating team actually said in detail how this strategy was done because this is an example of how strategies in Croatia should work, how quality people can be hired, and how millions of kunas should not be spent on studies that then remain deeply locked in individual drawers. And break a big fan over a Finnish model. So Pasi Salberg, who was in Croatia and who tried to bring some changes into the Croatian model of education, but then Minister Primorac drove him out of Croatia because he didn't like how he suggested himself, says friends you can't repaint the Finnish model, that's not the goal of the Finnish model. Study it or adjust it to yourself. Copy-paste won't bring results.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87486	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87487	Dear colleague Jovanovic, that's exactly what I was talking about about the Finnish model, applying it, adapting it not to copy it. We're not Finns, we're not Finns, and it's a good thing we're not Finns, probably. I don't think the strategy, and that's what I was talking about, getting ready for two years, falling out of the sky. And I mentioned that it was done by 100 experts, and that's what experts need to take off their hats. However, the strategy lacks analysis, there is no record of the situation so that we can say what is wrong and how the wider public would be aware of what is wrong and say the 100 experts that are wrong. The deadlines are missing, when will they be spent? I don't agree with the fact that it's supposed to be a beautifully written paper that doesn't commit anyone to anything. And this strategy has everything... to be exactly that, to remain a dead letter on paper like many documents that are adopted here in the Parliament dead letter on paper. So I didn't say one word to go to Finland and paint a Finnish model because it's impossible because it's specific. But surely that we can learn from those who do so better, we can apply their experiences and their knowledge to our opportunities. And finally, the strategy only makes sense if it starts to run and I doubt it'll ever be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87488	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87489	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm going to start a colleague from what you just said. So for the first time on the strategy committee we discussed before the summer and over the summer a summary of the strategy was drawn up, so a list of objectives and measures and an analytical basis of the strategy, which is if I am not mistaken and my colleague Reiner asked for one analysis of the existing situation. You're absolutely right when you say that the technical skills our students and students have when they finish their education are not satisfactory. And I'll tell you that on two examples, I just want to strengthen your arguments. Let's just say, in higher-class primary school, it's common for you to have kids very hard, bad, don't even write letters at all. I've also had opportunities as an employer to meet with graduate economists who can't put together an offer or can't fill out a general payment card. That's disastrous! But that's why we need this strategy, in my opinion. Every minister of science, education and sports has tried to be a reformist so far. And what did that result in? Different ad hoc reforms that were not generally resuscitated. So I'm going to remind you of HNOS, a patient who's partially revived, etc. The bottom line is you can't do anything in one term. And that's why we need a strategy that will set us goals that we, as a legislator, can also follow and build on our future system because the system is large and the system cannot change overnight. Anyone who works in it can confirm that to you. And finally, the strategy wasn't written in stone. Of course, times change and, of course, when we start to implement the strategy, if we adopt it, we will be able to obtain certain feedback and according to this and the resolution committee in this House, and then we as a body, so as the Croatian Parliament, we will be able to change it, supplement it according to what is given as a need or which shows that it is not good or defined in the strategy or that implementation has shown that another model or something like that should be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87490	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87491	Dear colleague, we're actually in agreement. We've been divulging in some details for a while. Yeah, I agree, the strategy needs to be done. However, a strategy in this House needs to be adopted unanimously by consensus. Because in order for one government, you said yourself, cannot implement the strategy, first we need to agree on what our goals are for which time we need to achieve and to do so under quotes, we need all of us to "be sworn" to implement. However, is everything done in the preparation of the strategy not only on the professional side but also on the political side? It's a question I don't know the answer to, it'll probably give an answer when they address the Parliament and the Deputy Minister, and Professor Budak and the minister if they come. And I disagree with those who think that there should be no two-reading strategies, I think that here we have opened the debate and that we should discuss it today and that consultations should be carried out between political partners and that what is not good in the strategy should be corrected and brought about by consensus. If there's no consensus then, I repeat, it's a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87492	Walter Boluncic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87493	Thank you. So I'd like to draw attention to that a certain part of your start-up exposure may have gone the wrong way, there's one problem that we can't allow, which is that the problem of the system is being identified by the knowledge problem that comes from schools. So the simplest example of what we say is that highly educated people from our colleges go to the world, find work tells us that they are in some way well-educated in that system, but they could certainly do even better. So let's not confuse the problems of the system by me with the quality of education that can definitely be improved. Secondly, as for the qualification of all ministers, I personally as I was in that school, I think, among other things, Professor Flego that he was a good minister, but on the other hand he was probably much easier at work, he was only a minister of science and technology at the time, while today's ministers have both education and sport, and probably a burden on them around this part. As far as the Bologna process is concerned, he's in trouble, still wanted, but I think from talking to people from universities and other countries, I think that's the problem all over Europe. The bologna process as well as the problems that lie all over Europe, and as far as America itself is concerned, it's such a big country that you have there from those who are illiterate to the fact that Nobel laureates teach in college. And that's where it has to be considered, so when something's done. And I would not agree with the claim that it's done as you said in killing social and humanistic sciences, I don't know where that idea came from. The fact that we have to have more fair technologies engineering mathematics. So, that's definitely necessary, but I don't think by any regulation, by any law, and neither of the procedures is going towards social and humanistic sciences being reduced in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87494	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87495	Dear colleague Bolunčić, I was talking about the start of the killing, I was talking about the world practice of humanistic sciences, I was talking about a practice that happens, for example, in the United States where the process started, and don't think it won't end up on us. Another thing that, not everyone goes abroad, goes abroad the best, because abroad is looking for knowledge, looking for ability, and quite sure that all those who go to check themselves out and don't think we're so good that all those who end up in the Croatian university will find a job outside. We'd be too good to do that, because it's not done by much more educated nations and much better people who are educated at much better universities. In addition, you know well that our universities are not among the first 400 just, Zagreb University is 401 among 500 universities. So about how good our education system is, there are different opinions and I've read about them, I've listened to them, I've talked to teachers, they're different from you, some of them agree with you. That's why this issue is on the Parliament's agenda, and that's what needs to be discussed. And as for ministers, what kind of ministers were they just before your colleague said that all ministers are trying to be reformers, none of them were reformers, none of them ministers of education, science will remember the next generation, because nothing new has brought Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87496	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87497	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vuksic, I personally think it's not easy being a minister of education, it's just my thinking. You here in your presentation were talking about the facts that we can all agree on, and I reiterate those existing in the analysis and are visible. One of the important facts is that the competences of today's, especially young people coming out, who end formal education are not enough to meet the needs that exist on the labour market. Croatian 15-year-olds achieve below average results in linguistic and mathematical literacy, as well as in natural science. You mentioned that you really need to change teaching approaches because children today in schools learn a lot of data that is true to the question of whether they will ever benefit again. So you should teach kids how to learn. It says here the rest, one sentence I personally observed very strongly, says that we are technologically dependent society. So when we talk about education, we need to talk about sustainable development. An architect of honor said what is the difference between architecture once and today? We used to draw slowly with our hand, but we had time to think. It's a quick drawing today, so there's little time left to think about. I think that's the problem with education. You're talking about the system, the education system, the world around us is changing very quickly, some say a hundred times faster than the education system that needs to respond to these needs is changing. We still have a system of records and chalk at school. Now, is it good to introduce smart records, is it a good thing that colleague Hajdukovic mentioned here, so we're writing very little time today, who's using pen and paper more today? Children at school use it and it is good to use it, but later on, they use a pen and paper less and less because of available new technologies. In this sense, the educational system is rigid and difficult to change, because it depends on a lot of factors and the question of whether it is good to change it because it bears it again and negative consequences. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87498	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87499	A similar answer to you as your colleagues before. Mostly, my colleague, Sagar, we agree on a lot of these claims you've made. It is not easy being a minister of education and science, I agree with you, it is certainly one of the most complex functions in the government, especially in society and in a state where knowledge is still tested as a luxury. We cut what's most important, and that's money for education and science. So, we think it's irrelevant and it's the easiest thing to do is to deny the rights of teachers, pay them less to patch up budget holes, or invest in technologies that develop knowledge, in tools that allow children to develop in schools. And very difficult, and every minister of education who agrees to be a minister of education, and he's a respected professor, needs to take off his hat. However, once he has taken the job, then I have criticism and the public following what they are doing. It is absolutely certain that the new minister, the new minister, will not be remembered in the Croatian public as a reformer because the reformation will not even be able to implement because it will be too short in that position. He accepted what everyone was asking why, what he needed, but we thank him for accepting and for making a change at the head of the ministry. Sustainable development, you said, is likely to be a colleague of Mirela Holly's speaking more in her debate, and that the education system is changing quickly, that is correct, but I was talking about the basic knowledge that every student needs to have in order to just follow these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87500	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87501	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well esteemed colleague Vuksic, I only agree with a lot of what you have said, especially with what you have said before the end that it is important to bring any strategy, that at least try to reach a consensus and that it would be important to reach a consensus. I also agree with your saying that it is wrong to view science and education as a cost because it is an investment, not only in the immediate future, but also in the far future. Unfortunately, there is no such perception at all, but there is no will, and I am going back to what I was talking about earlier, we will probably see very soon, in a few weeks when there will be a budget rebalancing here for this year, and then we will see again some month, two later when it will be voted in the budget for the next year, how many wonderful words will now be said, are already spoken, will be translated into reality. I'm afraid very little based on my experience so far. What you said about the analytical background, however, is very important to emphasise once again. Of course, the logic of things is that you always do the first analysis, you see good and bad things, you go bad to change, leave and upgrade and that was the problem, it was not... analysts, and as counterpart Hajdukovic himself said, only after the board that was in the 7th month appeared then an analytical background that did not have 500 pages,... It has 116 pages and unfortunately some of the things, important things that the strategy is directed at are not explained or at least not enough in that analytical background, that's true and these are facts. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87502	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87503	Dear Academy Director Reiner, that we agree on this, we need to reach a consensus, we need to agree on what our education system will look like and how the next government and within what deadlines will implement it because if we fail to reach that agreement then, I repeat by which time, it will remain a dead letter on paper because the next government that will certainly not be the same as it is today will start to work its strategy because it probably won't vote for this if no consensus is reached. Yes, the truth will come out just as you said in the budget rebalance vote and in the 2015 budget vote where it is expected to fall below 3% of GDP investment in education. I think it is a devastating fact and let's not think that Croatia will step on its feet, that Croatia will step out of the crisis by pushing knowledge, pushing science and education onto the margins. I was just saying which countries are the most developed, just the ones that invest most in education and science. And I think I'm smart enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87504	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87505	My colleague, in particular in your basic debate, you have therefore stated that you suspect that this strategy will be implemented. When some things are good or draft laws or strategies, then the only objection that can be said is that it is too late to be passed or that it is suspected that it will not be implemented. However, that is why we are precisely controlling the implementation and implementation of the law and this strategy that I believe will be adopted. But that's less important. I especially care about what you said and I think it should be affirmed, that in schools, so it's not just about the market and the equipment, but also how children learn. I think it should be repeated over and over again, as Professor Krapac once once said a little funny, that as a responsible student he knew he shouldn't ask irresponsible questions. However, just when you see in this strategy and commitment to the government and commitment to introducing civic education at school, the first answer is that. We do not need citizens as subjects, but as citizens are aware of their rights and aware of their obligations. It's very important, not just for schooling, but for the future. Why does someone commit themselves? It's not only the freedom to choose freely for someone or for something, but it's why it's dedicated, and it's just making it possible for a critical debate, so it seems to me that it's not, and you're particularly pointing out, that they're not only learning about technical subjects, something that needs immediate market thinking, but critical thinking that's the only thing that's responsible and that's the only way that makes and drags one society forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87506	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87507	Dear counterparts Anticevic-Marinovic, why I said I doubt that this strategy will be implemented because of what is being brought at the end of the term. And the other fact that speaks in favor of this thesis is that no political agreement has been reached, and unless a political agreement has been reached, you are an experienced politician, you know well, that then all that is brought here remains a dead letter on paper. Of course everything that will be good should be supported, however, we will see that both the course of the debate and only the vote it will bring. The most important thing is that it's in the education system as children learn, how we prepare children. Do we prepare it to be just machines that remember or teach them to be people who think and who critically question relationships in society, that's very important. Neoliberal capitalism is against such an educational system that critically questions what has become sacred, what is better, which is neoliberal capitalism, the greatest lie and deception.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87508	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87509	Thank you. You rightly doubt the feasibility of this document, as among other things, the document encourages greater separation from the state budget. It should therefore be encouraged to allocate more resources from the state budget for the implementation of this strategy. Of course, it will be a test that will clearly show that this strategy does not actually make sense and that it is unsustainable because the next budget vote will make it clear that it will no longer be singled out. But I would ask one question that seems to me essential to the implementation of this strategy. Who's supposed to be spending it at the end? It should primarily be carried out by those people who are teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers who are on the sidelines of a marginalised society whose dignity is completely threatened, who are barely able to bring an end to the end. You also have a negative selection in these systems because of that. Whom you will attract to give the best knowledge to young people and to stay in that system, when they are being threatened daily and are being insulted by the very system we are talking about today and the teachers are being insulted. Look at what they're saying at their protest meetings. Will they really be the bearers of this strategy? I am convinced that this strategy will not even touch them, and I say the fundamental assumptions for the realization of this strategy is the financial framework. The financial framework here is gone or we'll have it. Fundamental rights as they are, fundamental rights of teachers, will be compromised, the professor is in complete danger today, unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia. and, of course, that every society that is conscious of its needs to invest maximumly in education and the fact that this maximum investment will only be paid in two or three decades, will not immediately have an effect. But without financial business, of course we won't be able to accomplish anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87510	Thank you. Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87511	Dear fellow Matušić, you have just talked about a problem that we have not mentioned before in the debates so far, and this is the problem of the functioning of the system who will be the bearers of implementation who will actually implement this strategy, who should implement this strategy. This doubt of the implementation of the strategy, of course, is strengthened by the budget, or budget, because we know that the budget is the strongest political document, and this particular political document says that it will be cut both in education and in science. Minister Lalovac walks with scissors from the ministry to the ministry and cuts, now the issue in which the ministries will cut and cut. We will receive the answer in the budget rebalancing and we will receive the answer in the vote for the budget in 2015. When it comes to health care, education, science there shouldn't be as I said in the debate to be left and right, there shouldn't be opposition and power. You should bring it in unanimously, make a deal, and then just make those deals last a long time. That's why I said that this strategy came too late for some kind of thorough agreement to be reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87512	On behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, colleagues Dunja Spoljar and Damir Tomic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87513	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, Deputy Minister, Professor Budak, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. The need for inherited opportunities of modern Croatian school does not match, because it is obvious that our schooling in a material way lags behind the European school is no excuse for failure. This fact is, above all, a challenge or motivation. In order for the gap between the expected and achieved in the Croatian system of education to be as small as possible, a good framework is needed, which is fully clear, applicable and unequivocal. In order to achieve the level of highly developed countries, Croatia must be open, mobile and innovative society, although this is really clearly worth repeating to everyone, there is no best school in the world. If such a school existed, everyone would copy and organize just like that. It is not possible to create such a school, it is simply not possible to meet with a solution of expectations that various peoples and different peoples set before school. What to change, what to improve, the answer is not uniform. Schools and their equipment, textbooks, teaching tools and aids, strategies, methods, models of permanent teacher education, plans and programmes, as well as status of education, status of teachers and teachers, educators and teachers, teachers and teachers, professors and professors, directors and directors of their place in the present Croatian reality. Let the principles and rest on them this Strategy cannot be a matter of debate. They are the cornerstone of the civil education minimum, the obligation of general basic education, horizontal and vertical passing of the system, the inclusion of everyone in the education system with special care for marginalised and excluded, education based on scientific knowledge, respect for human rights and children's rights, competence, professional ethics, school autonomy, creative teachers and teachers, interculturalism and the European dimension of education. The strategy introduces a large door not only to the education and education system but to the concept of life and work, lifelong learning and lifelong education. Lifelong learning refers to every learning activity throughout life to improve knowledge, skills and competences within the personal, civil, social or professional activities of the individual. It includes learning in all lifetimes ranging from early youth to old age, in all forms in which any formal, informal or information is made. Learning is a continuous process in which the results and motivations of an individual for learning during a certain life period are conditioned by the knowledge, habits and experience of learning acquired at a younger age. The goals of lifelong education are economic nature, achieving greater competitiveness and lasting employability. But the ultimate goal is the active role of an individual in society. These objectives are to promote social inclusion, develop active citizenship and develop individual potentials of individuals. My debate today will mostly remain within the framework of early, pre-school, primary and secondary education, while counterpart Tomic will continue to discuss higher education, science and technology behind me. One of the objectives of the above-mentioned early pre-school, primary and secondary education and education is to change the structure of primary education, which has shown the most commented part of the Strategy in the general public. It was worth asking when to start and how long compulsory education should take. It is only for comparison in order to move into the mandatory education system and extend the length of the duration not only justified but also accepted as a necessity about the length of compulsory education in Europe that we can speak in the range of 8 to 13 years. Where 13 years last in Hungary and the Netherlands, 12 e.g. in Portugal, Luxembourg and Northern Ireland, 11 in Malta and England, Scotland and Wales, while 9 years in Belgium, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Germany, Estonia, Lithuania, Austria, Slovenia and Finland and 8 years in Croatia and Turkey alone. In Luxembourg and Northern Ireland, children are already leaving for school at 4 years old, in Cyprus at 4 years and 8 months. At the age of seven, small Bulgarians, Estonians, Lithuanians and Finns go to primary school but in all these countries compulsory education lasts 9 years. The extension of compulsory education and early entry into compulsory education will raise education opportunities for every Croatian student and will become students of Europe as such. I will also welcome the strategic goal of raising the quality of work and the social reputation of teachers. I remind you of the results of the P.I.S. last year. The 15-year-olds on the knowledge and skills scale of students from 65 countries in the world found themselves in 40th place in mathematical literacy, 34th in science and 35th in reading literacy. The first on the list among half a million students in the world are the high school students of the Chinese province of Shanghai then Singapore and Hong Kong. In Singapore, the average classroom has 36.5 students in Croatia 20. And teachers on average have only 9.7 years of internships while in Croatia they have 15.5. But Singaporeian and Chinese teachers and teachers have something in common. Although Chinese teachers are less paid, they have longer working weeks and more students in the department what they are absolutely first in the world for and where they should seek the reason for the success of their students' fellow MPs and fellow MPs' reputation. Recent research has shown that teachers have higher status in China than anywhere else in the world and that influence regularly and use it by communicating and cooperating with parents in order to improve student education. The role of a teacher or teacher is inevitable, knowledge is made available to all, thus preparing a child for a society of knowledge. As so far education has focused more attention on things than on people, more on material values and benefits than on inner beauty and pleasure is a responsible and difficult task. The teacher must know how to measure the requirements well, adjust them and differentiate them according to the needs and abilities of the students. One thing is certainly good teaching is proportional to the effort and time of teachers or teachers and teachers. For the sake of all the above, it is very important to achieve another goal of this Strategy to improve the quality of management to educational institutions. Now, I'm going to skip a little bit so my colleague Tomic can arrive, so the strategy we are discussing today must improve the development potential of educational institutions, implement a full curricula reform, change the structure of basic education, raise the quality of work and social reputation of teachers, improve the quality of education education education institutions, develop a complete system of support for students and try to ensure optimal working conditions for educational educational institutions and establish a quality assurance system. School is not just a place where students attend classes, a number of classes per day, a week or a year. Children have become aware of their abilities and desires, demanding true knowledge and technologies, their needs are growing, but also significantly different. The educational system that allows flexibility and constant flow of information, but at the same time the basic tool is knowledge, not information. A good student of a good teacher throughout his life has access and adopted him and shares him and continuously uses him for personal advancement. So he becomes an active member of the knowledge society. Education and science are of particular public interest. This strategy provides assumptions, guidelines and development plan for the next 15 years, with a desirable review every 2 to 3 years, for education in the Republic of Croatia to be made available to everyone under equal conditions according to abilities. The state assumes responsibility for development, management of the education system in cooperation with the private sector. This is why the SDP club accepts, supports and welcomes this strategy and looks forward to an action plan as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87514	This debate on behalf of the SDP club will be continued by counterpart Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87515	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers with the deputy and respected colleague Budak, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to have to shorten my discussion a little bit, my colleague spent 10 minutes so I'm not talking about science and technology, I'm going to talk about higher education, but we all know that it's closely connected to each other and third. So colleagues and colleagues, in almost 25 years of the Republic of Croatia, for the first time, we have a strategy of education, a document that has worked on more than 100 experts, people who are extremely interested in quality education and the development of society. At the beginning of the term of office, I pointed out that it was a huge loss that we did not make 20 years ago because it would already have its first results. Some colleagues pointed out that in their discussions. I will base my review on higher education, taxing key parts of the strategy i.e. the objectives, and for each objective, sub-targets and measures are defined. The strategy aims to increase the overall quality of higher education in order to achieve the competence of students for creative professional work and active action in a democratic society of positive impact on society as a whole, fostering economic development and personal needs. It is necessary to make study available to all in accordance with the individual abilities of the candidates. The first objective of this strategy is to improve the study programmes through consistent implementation of the Bologna Reform settings and to redefine the competences they acquire. In this respect, the number and profile of study programmes with social and economic needs should be harmonised, and the content of study programmes should be adapted to clearly defined learning outcomes. The second objective of this strategy is to establish a quality binary system of higher education in line with national needs and the principle of effective management of higher schools. The third objective is to ensure the quality of high-school personnel structure as a basis for improving the quality of higher education, and to that end measures are given to increase the scientific and teaching quality of teachers, how to redefine mechanisms for determining the structure of working time and work tasks of higher education teachers and how to establish standards of higher education personnel structure and define the structure of jobs and employment policy. The fourth objective is to ensure an efficient and developmental system of financing of higher universities where it is clearly defined how to establish a system for allocating public funds to high schools through full programme contracts with their full autonomy at their disposal by means of financial means, which means responsibility for achieving the results and how to encourage the separation of higher education from the public and private sector. The fifth objective of the strategy is to ensure satisfactory spatial information and communication resources from higher universities. The sixth objective is to improve the student standard with special care for the social dimension of study where measures are specifically defined how to reform the system of student standards in order to increase justice and how to expand the accommodation opportunities for students and to create new and restore existing capacities. The 7th objective is to internationalise higher education and to strengthen it into a European and world-wide high education space where the emphasis is placed on how to increase the incoming and outgoing mobility of students and teachers, how to encourage the introduction of teaching in foreign languages and the formation of joint studies with distinguished European and world higher schools and how to increase the number of foreign academic staff at higher schools. Furthermore, the strategy defines measures and how to encourage the autonomy of higher education institutions on their profiling and developing a culture of quality while taking responsibility for the quality assurance and achievement of the strategic objectives of institutions. The objective of the strategy is also to develop the overall programme funding that takes into account national priorities and connects them with quality assurance and the achievement of the strategic objectives of the institution of higher education. This is stated in the eighth objective, which ensures the appropriate importance of a culture of quality and the principle of responsibility in higher education in which measures are still defined and how to complement the existing normative framework, how to rationalise the evaluation processes and how to link existing information systems in higher education and science. All the critics of the strategy had quite enough time in a public debate that lasted an extremely long time, but that duration contributed to having such a good and complex document. The same critics had enough mandates to deal with this topic, in my opinion, a lot of too many mandates. I call on everyone to accept the strategy and make their contribution to its implementation, and ultimately I will give a quote from one of the members of the National Strategy Authority, Mr Boris Jukic, who says: "The lack of consensus would be a kind of betrayal because it would leave only what has always been a declarative value for politicians.". The SDP club will support the adoption of this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87516	Thank you. The exhibition of Dunje Špoljar reflects the respected Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87517	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, I fully agree with you when you pointed out the role of a teacher who is absolutely inevitable, the status of a teacher, and I mention part of the strategy where very clearly data is presented which are very worrying that the average salary in the education sector is the lowest average salary of highly educated employees. The strategy specifically calls for improving the physical position of teachers as one of the strategic objectives. However, what confuses me is the conclusion that I would say so in terms of improving funding and where it is said, I quote: "A gradual change in the structure of education and science separation by reducing the share of personal income to the total mass, as well as increasing the allocation from the state budget and GDP." You don't say what? So, on the one hand, the share of wages is reduced, and on the other hand it increases the separation from the state budget but is not said for what. So I believe the minister will explain it to us by the end of the debate, and I, Mr. Minister, welcome to you who have joined us in this debate, ask a question that I asked at the beginning of the debate that you did not attend regarding the material position of teachers, or all the staff in the education system. Will there be enough money to pay by the end of this year? Whether additional funds will have to be allocated in the budget rebalancing and whether salaries will be cut next year or remain at the level of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87518	Thank you. I'm asking you another time not to, so I'm asking you next time don't ask the Minister when you're replicating one of the MPs. Replication response, Dunja Spoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87519	Dear colleagues Kosor, therefore, we agreed that the status of teachers or teachers is one of the most important things in the education system, so we should take advantage of every opportunity to underline it and to deepen it. So this time, I would like to emphasise and appeal once again to end the vision that in the education system as soon as children are less education teachers are needed, there is a need for less care for initial education, as well as for the permanent education of students and as soon as children are more that more money is needed in the budget and that a greater Serbs are needed for teachers. That's not true and it doesn't stand. So one system in which teachers or teachers act is the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87520	Another replica of the same MPs Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87521	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I noticed one of your sentences comparing the success of Croatian students and others from the other 64 countries, so you set an example of Hong Kong in which I find it 35, six children in one class unlike our 20, 25 students, and you said that what is main for the success of these students in the competition with the other students is the reputation of teachers, if I understood what you said. Now, I don't know if you know what's going on in our here, let's say the elementary schools that are all experiencing that I say unpleasant and negative experience teachers, trying to get students' knowledge to open up to them and analytical meanings in their heads, in their therefore logically overthinking. But look, today's technology is such that there's no child without a cell phone, I-Phone, etc. The multiplication tables of those on the i-phone, they don't remember on 8x7=56. That's what he knocks on here and he knows. There is not enough, therefore logical, overthinking, student analysis, and what they are learning today is no longer remembered, and the reputation of a teacher is violated by the rules on schools and laws, that a teacher should not do anything about all the indisputables that a student or a group of students are doing. That's terrible. I don't know, I can tell you, but right now I don't have time in the replica that's happening to our schools. So if a teacher's fight doesn't have the right to react at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87522	The replica corresponds to the respected Dunja Špoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87523	If anyone in this Assembly knows what's going on in this class it's me who spent a quarter of a century in a class among children and I know very well what's going on in Croatian schools. I was talking about Singapore, it's in Singapore that we understand more than 36 children in our departments, and I said that maybe we should look for a reason, not that he is in the reputation of a teacher, but that maybe we should look for him. And what I would also like to mention about it is that in the public debate there are amendments and additions to the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in which the entire public and all of you colleagues are invited to join, in which you can identify and attempt to restore trust in the hands of teachers on that trail of your replica. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87524	We're moving on to the replicas of the respected Damir Tomic. First Vice President of the House Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87525	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Tomic, of course you and your colleague Spoljar spoke as you said, that's understandable. What I expected, however, that you might say, and when the Deputy Minister has not already said that, in some ways, the fact that the European Commission has asked whether we are giving a segment of vocational education sufficient attention and how we are thinking to better connect it with the labour market. In this area, an important emphasis is given through EU documents to achieve greater quality and attractiveness of this educational segment, and there is no separate chapter in our strategy. And I know that there was some answer from the ministry that a strategy was cited in Brussels and that it was explained that it was a prerequisite for all reforms in the system but without a concrete response. So I kind of expected that any of those who defend the strategy would at least look back, but we haven't heard that before, so maybe you're going to complete your views a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87526	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87527	Thank you, Vice President, and thank you, colleague, for this matter. In fact, there is too little time for us to speak in quality of the club's name about all segments of this strategy. I'll just remind you of one thing, when you're already talking about that there are no chapters related to vocational education in the way you suggest, that we really had a long public debate. It's not clear to me that you're looking at it now, and we've had over a year's chance and you might notice that it's missing if you really think it's missing. I'll just remind you of one thing, what you're talking about at 150 and some places in the strategy repeats. There's no special chapter, but it repeats itself. And if you had really read the strategy as I have read it, you would have seen it and you would not have called on the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87528	A new replica, dear Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87529	Thank you. You read the goals in the strategy nicely, but in order to implement those objectives that you read from the strategy, of course you need a financial framework. Without a financial framework, it is impossible to realise any objective in this strategy, any objective. Therefore, it would be good to hear from the present minister whether the material status in educational institutions is really going to fall, will it grow? Because according to this strategy it should grow, it should increase resources. So it would be good to hear from you from the ruling coalition, too, do you intend to raise funds in the state budget next year? So here you will clearly express your position by voting on the state budget you will clearly state whether you want to keep the material status as it is today when we talk about teachers, teachers and teachers in our educational and educational institutions and it is really unsustainable. Unsustainable why? Because it's simply beneath the integrity of these institutions. Some say that in some companies and partly state-owned, you have jobs for which you don't need any education and that salaries are higher than high school professors. I'm not going to mention these state-owned companies where people who do not need education pay much more than a high school professor. So, of course, we have to correct it all together and we shouldn't really argue or argue about it, it should be one agreement and it should really improve the reputation and dignity of those on whom this strategy rests.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87530	The replica matches Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87531	Thank you, Vice President. You're talking about the height of the profession. I totally agree with that, but I have to remind you that this dignity and the problem of that dignity is not from today. Since '94. I'm in education and all the time I'm talking about the height of the profession, you know. And I'm deliberately saying that 20 years ago we had a strategy to get some results today because that's when I started working in the education system and I'm sorry it wasn't like that back then. But now we have a strategy. As regards the financial framework and the realisation of these objectives, do you really think they can be realised in one year and in the budget that follows for 2016? The strategy obliges us for many years. And I'm gonna end up with something that I repeated 10 minutes ago, which I repeated a minute ago, if we had a strategy 20 years ago, we wouldn't be talking about financial problems and the height of the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87532	The last replica, the Honorable Hrvoje Nejdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87533	In your discussion, you and your colleague, Dunja, have listed a number of goals in as much time as you have and tried to bring the public and all of us closer to what the strategy brings. You also stressed each other, regretting why the strategy was not adopted 20 years ago as well as that over 100 renowned experts from all areas participated in the creation of the strategy itself. Now, unfortunately, on this other side of the assembly, we heard from fellow Reiner that this strategy is actually a set of good wishes, quote. So, personally, I find it unacceptable and humiliating and even offensive to all those experts and people who have worked on making this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87534	Replication response, Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87535	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague often points out the importance of consensus on the other side. If this document had come unprepared, unannounced to my fellow MPs and MPs, I would have fully understood the reactions of my colleagues on the other hand. I cannot understand what they are doing now because both HDZ and all parliamentary parties, all groups interested in this document have been discussed but much more than a year, much more. That can be confirmed by a colleague, Budak. So it's not clear to me that at this point we can't reach a consensus on a document that's variable, which will change how counterpart Dunja proposes every 2 years when there are shortages. You know what I'm afraid of when you mention nice wishes? I'm afraid of a lot of good wishes from HDZ. Because the citizens of the Republic of Croatia were unfortunately too often victims of the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87536	We're continuing the club debate. The time foreseen for the IDS Club discussion will be shared by colleagues Valter Bolunčić and Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87537	Thank you. One more good morning to everyone. So today we have one of the very important documents of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy. A document that is important not only for the economic development of society but also for the development of society in all its segments. That is why I would like to highlight the first thing that I think is stated in the strategy, which is that it is public, means education and science is a public good that is available to everyone in terms of abilities, regardless of social status. This approach to education and science, I think, is very important and that in our society, an opportunity should be given to all who have the ability to education. Furthermore, the strategy has a whole range of objectives that must be achieved but in an explanation and description, we see that these objectives have occurred with talks with groups, professors, teachers and students, with all ministries. So it is obvious that behind this job there is one recording of the situation, one deep recording of the situation which afterwards resulted in observations and objectives that want to overcome the situation in which the system is now located, or improve the system. Education and science are the only almost factor in the development of either economic, development of society and I think, therefore, that the first chapter in the strategy that talks about lifelong education on good describes today's state of education and science not only in Croatia but in the world. The technological progress as well as the development of society is such that today you are at any school or university, when you graduate from college, the knowledge you have acquired and competences are definitely not enough for a 40 or a multi-year working life. This is why education is particularly stressed in the strategy, whether formal or informal, is an emphasis on acquiring competences that can be included in society, that is, in the work that needs to be encouraged. I'd like to highlight a few points from the strategy. One of the major possible changes that are listed is pre-school, primary and secondary independence and autonomy of all factors. So far, that wasn't the case, it was a high-school case, but it wasn't. It involves rights but also duties and it certainly pulls back the next goal, which is quality control. So you should work on quality control, but you should let the subjects do education the best they think. This applies, in basic and secondary education, to competences from both the directors of institutions and teachers, to innovation and change of curricula so that it would not be as several times just learning, but to educate students in accordance with modern trends and technologies, and therefore that amendment that I have said today on behalf of the club. There is also an emphasis on vocational education because sometimes, I talk about knowledge society, sometimes we think only about higher education, but secondary vocational education is one of the most important factors because at every level of work that is done must be done well and quality. And what we all point out, it's definitely a material status how, therefore, the material status of the institutions themselves related to equipment and books, but it is nevertheless the material status of teachers, a teacher who is still below each level today. In higher education and science that takes up a significant part of the strategy, the emphasis is on a number of things, first of all what has been bothering for many years and therefore a certain weak link between the economy and higher education and science. The goal is probably why most of the money given in higher education comes from the state budget around 0.70 and some % in science, because if there is no relationship between the economy and higher education and science then neither the economy sees the reason why it would give money for what it will get, and on the other hand, in one return interaction high education does not have enough resources, nor does that science and research that the economy and society at all need. So here is the emphasis on it, and sometimes you see things that are not so highly defined goals, from the participation of competent economists and teachers in teaching, and not only that teaching is limited to professors from university. There's also a bologna process, before we had a chance to listen. The Bologne process is in certain examinations throughout Europe. What sometimes bothers the most is the following, and that is that the three - year, first - year, first - grade, or approacher, so the university or professional part sometimes differs very little with the whole range of professional studies done at the university. And I think it really takes this binary system of education here, so professional and university to divide on the basis of the competences that are acquired, but also with one vertical and horizontal passage because someone who is going in one direction, let's say that professional studies must have the opportunity because of the competence of their knowledge to come later if they need a doctoral study. Today, entering Europe and access funds Horizon 20 or Reasonus plus really significant funds are available to help develop higher education. It is therefore necessary to highlight the international aspect of higher education and science, collaboration projects. In this regard, it may also be necessary sometimes to bind institutions more strongly with universities, or higher education units, from the point of view. I think that the emphasis on the need for the funds to be received, because the strategy states that this should be double for science, and 0.7 to 1.4, or it is also stressed that these additional funds should come as little as possible from the state budget and more from the economy and other sources, because this is the only way to see the usefulness of such cooperation. In the case of funding itself, there is therefore an important assumption which has already begun, and it is done by programs which the universities have concluded with the ministry, a contract programming where they seek to assign a single asset to the university alone, not based on some history, so how much they received last year or the number of students enrolled, but on the basis of science, the number of published works, innovations, or the success of students. In this way, the centres of excellence would be encouraged with more money than today, money that is scattered wide. But in this one, therefore, funding should, however, pay attention to the politic development of high, especially higher education, the other is already politistic because if they look at each other, we see that as far as they're concerned, therefore, politic development, that places where universities or high schools are located, even if they're not scientifically strong, they still have advantages in their development, so I hope that the number of public universities may not be finished. Funding is a problem we have heard many times, but I would only short before my colleague Sponza continues, said sometimes things should not be solved exclusively with some tool that is long-term, large or who knows what.... We today have a certain misunderstanding and disagreement between the law that comes from the Ministry of Finance, Labour and Science, so we have a situation in which, for example, VAT pays on scientific equipment purchased from international scientific projects, which contributes greatly to the fact that young people can't be employed, or in some cases we have that the international scholarships are paid a 40% tax as income, which has even caused some people not to decide on such a part at all. I think that in these small shifts it should be seen that science and education can already be encouraged, not just waiting for a rebalancing or budget. And of course, what hangs in the air, which is income tax, let's not forget that preschool education is completely in the local community by changing the unpredicted income tax without compensation, in some cities such as Pula, left with no money, full money for preschool education. Here, I hope that the implementation of this strategy will take into account not only in the long term, but also in the short term, because there are a lot of small things that, by changing legislative regulations, can significantly contribute to the development of science.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87538	Thank you. The debate continues with the esteemed Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87539	Last week, the Nordic Culture Festival took place in Istria, which was attended by Denmark, Norway, Finland, Iceland and in a conversation with the highest representatives of these countries in Croatia, confirmed that these countries are at the world's top by the percentage of GDP that stand out for education, science, research, innovation. IDS welcomes the adoption of more than necessary strategies and IDS calls for the consensus of this key segment for our country's prosperity. I believe that the strategy must become a means to which we want to promote the value and knowledge appropriately, not only in economic terms, but also in the free sense, because a man who does not know is a very easy prey of manipulation and destruction. Therefore, in this promotion, I believe that we must engage all, the academic community, intellectuals, politicians, the public and the media in particular. It is up to everyone to create an education system that wants to instill in our young people the right attitude, the attitude that knowledge and advocacy can achieve a great deal, that learning and misleading can contribute to their personal improvement, the improvement of the community and society as a whole. I personally expect educational programmes based on this strategy to be primarily modern, interdisciplinary and what is most important, to be such that when our young people leave school, they also have knowledge and skills that they want to have a competitive advantage on the market. I would like to tell the respected Mr. Minister that I am pleased to hear what the strategy highlights the important role of the unit of local self-government and that the strategy confirms that cities and municipalities are aware that investment in education and science is the most important role in the long-term intellectual and social capital of our communities. Cities and municipalities continuously invest in buildings, in additional standards, in experts that actually prove that human resources in schools are essential to a quality education system. Despite efforts by cities and municipalities, however, it is evident that only preschool standards have not changed, preschools are funded by local self-government units, and kindergarten standards are prescribed by a forward ministry. Such a situation burdens local budgets, burdens parents, and twice as much. On the one hand, because I cannot enroll a child in kindergarten, and on the other hand they will not be able to bear the cost of paying the price of kindergarten. The construction of new capacities wants to partially address the problem, but remains a question of rational use of financial and other resources in today's conditions. It is therefore necessary, by virtue of this strategy, to either change the standards governing the number of children in educational groups or to increase the percentage of decentralised funds for cities and municipalities. The evaluation criteria for all programmes throughout the educational vertical should be the excellence and applicability of knowledge. As a small country, we have to run a lot faster, know a lot more if we want to be competitive. And in this regard, I consider what my colleague Bolunčić said before, an open, honest cooperation between our schools and universities with European and world universities and institutes, education with the economy and of course cooperation between the public and private sectors. We who represent politics, and at all levels, must contribute greatly to these forms of cooperation. We should turn to promoting a culture of quality, value of diligent and continuous learning in order to achieve more goals, ensure Croatia's development and prosperity. Such a system must certainly find ways to ensure free education for all students of weaker property and from primary school to university. Croatia has excellent individuals, scientists and intellectuals known in the world, and now it is really high time to create an excellent system because a small country such as Croatia's knowledge and excellence are the only chance Croatia is to become a competitive country. I repeat, the IDS welcomes the adoption of more than necessary strategies, the IDS calls for the consensus of this key segment for our country's prosperity.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87540	Thank you. Replications refer to counterparts, Walter Boluncic. The first one will be presented by Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87541	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Among other things, I think that you and my colleague, Sponza, are very fond of seeing you in the IDS and above all supporting the strategy, and then seeing the need for consensus. I am sorry to conclude that here are 12 hours from HDZ no one is present in the assembly anymore and is not following this extremely important debate. You mentioned the autonomy of the institution and that is what I particularly agree on, so who was somewhat present in higher education now will be transferred to both primary and secondary schools and it is very important just as you mentioned that there are different needs. Since our country is extremely different you want to geographically, demographically, economically, at every other point of view you need to share and leave it to the schools on their initiative or not to impose but to try to open the system to the maximum for the needs of each local community. Of course, this country must provide some standard and minimum, and everything else is then on the very staff of the school, educational and pedagogical, who know very well what their school and society needs. and the more the system, since it is glomagic, often does not respond on time or often cannot be adapted and is not as agile as any single institution can be. And what you noticed when you were talking about universities is I'm also very glad that you underlined it, but I intend to, it's not the goal of 10 or 15 or 20 uniform public universities, but it's the goal of dispersing it and making it different for everyone to have their own speciality and for the internal mobility of students, but also because every climate and every institution and university can offer some unique and best contribution to the entire system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87542	The answer to the replica of Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87543	Thank you. Well the IDS has always been for conversation and arrangement so it's our motto because especially in matters of importance I think only by agreement all can achieve results. Autonomy is quite important because it reacts faster, but what you have stated in your speech is that quality control should exist. It must be quality control to know exactly what levels to achieve after the educational cycle. And as for politic development, I think it's important because it really does see the need to contribute significantly not only to the economy but also to social development in different places when there is a college, a higher school or some level of education. On the other hand, of course, we can't have all the universities today, we have 7 and we put the most of them in Zagreb at the same level, but let's just say what would happen with Split and Rijeka if they didn't have universities in them, but that's why the strategy provides for centres of excellence and software contracts that will be set at the university, not every university should be a university that works only science, etc. In America, it was mentioned a lot before, even in the employment of professors in colleges sometimes it is said whether this professor should do most of his classes so he has a lot of classes but does not require such strong scientific work or is asked for scientific work but then it is indeed an international respected scientific paper. So here I hope that regardless of the situation that one important document is definitely going to be the basis for everyone to agree on it and not to remain a dead letter on paper because to make a joke there will be a dead letter left on paper if only we kill it, and we are not meant to kill science but to give a run and support for science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87544	Thank you. The second replica of the esteemed Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87545	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bolunčić mentioned the objectives of the strategy and I personally strongly support that part of the goals where it is said to promote and develop awareness of Croatian language as a key factor in Croatian identity. I think it might be a good idea to add and promote Croatian culture, but through all that to promote, I return to Croatian language reading, to promote reading, not wikipedia. A short time ago, we discussed my colleague Grubisic and me in children or in high school students to promote reading so that young people, our children, get to know all the wealth of Croatian literature, is the same as one of our identities that we can be particularly proud of. Not known enough, now to conduct a survey among high school students about I don't know Judith, for example, we'd get poor and devastating results. However, this certainly applies to both public figures and politicians, journalists. In the public space, you often hear the amazing ignorance of Croatian standard language, so that these goals should be particularly highlighted and perhaps I would suggest and further enhance in the strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87546	The answer to the replica of Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87547	I agree with ma'am, I did not report for reply to the replica, although I am a mathematician by profession, but I always believe that the development of society is not exclusively science in terms of technical and natural but also the social contribution of science which as a society as such is because in fact this second part only serves to make society better living in some kind of upgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87548	In the name of the SDSS club, a respected representative, Milorad Pupovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87549	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Professor Budak, Mr. Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. The idea of a strategy of education and science and the idea of the need to develop this strategy was created at the time of the last government and at the time of the campaign to adopt the Law on Higher Education and Science as quickly as possible in order to make it as easy as possible to get through the idea of further privatisation of public education and public higher education and scientific institutions. And all those who participated in this and who did not give in to it and some sitting here in this assembly are responsible because this government led by Professor Budak, with the support of the former minister and current minister, developed this Strategy as a presumption of further legislative debate on how and how we can and should regulate the issue of education and science. And in that sense, one step has been taken that has not yet been made. It has been made in a very democratic and very consular way, which means that a large number of experts have been involved and that people from different professions have had the opportunity to autonomously discuss what is the measure of their understanding of all levels of education and of course issues of science and research and this is a great achievement. A great achievement because it is also a great achievement because it is done. Is that the lack of this proposal? I'm sure he didn't. Is it a flaw because there are no other strategies that would follow this kind of strategy? Of course not. It's a risk, but it's not a drawback. In other words, if there is no strategy for economic policy or industrial policy or labour market strategy, it is a risk for this strategy but it is not a lack of this strategy and should be said here. And in that sense, it is up to us as representatives and advocates to invite the government to start developing strategies and these species that are needed and are necessary. And now let me say at what my club and I see the advantage of this Strategy except what I've already said. I see the advantage of this Strategy because the Government has made it possible to protect this type of document an extremely vital sector in a society that suffers and because of structural changes in our society that are seen as necessary to continue to privatise the area of education, the area and the possibility of science as much as possible. Why? Because that makes a profit. Is anyone asking a private high school that they're training so many people for? No, nobody asks because logic is very simple, people give their money, spend their money out of their pocket, their problem is whether or not they'll get a job later. And of course these people have to show up on the labour market. Of course that kind of people are then later competing with the overall process of education, especially some universities at our universities and of course the state has to take care of this matter in different aspects of things. Therefore, there should be no fear of the regulatory mechanisms to be introduced by the state, especially if the state wants to protect the area of education and science. Because small countries like Croatia if they don't do it then bad colleagues Kosor talking about standardisation, it will remain a symbolic place when the Croatian language is on Wednesday as it is until today. Badava will then talk about the fundamental values of our society because it will remain, and then we will remain a symbolic place because the elemental skills will not be taught either in communication or in social values or in other necessary assumptions for participation in the social community on the basis of the best values that education can acquire. In this sense, it can be said that this Strategy is designed to show all the breadth and complexity of the problem of education and science. And that all those who, at least I understand it that way, may be her creators will tell me that I am wrong for all those who will approach tomorrow to the need to build a legal framework to see all this complexity. And for that reason, that part and that segment, of course, we support it. Another thing I would like to say is the fact that our schools, primary schools, secondary schools and their teachers and teachers, their students and pupils unfortunately go through a period during which they fail to provide all those basic values that school, which public institutions in a secular society should be able to provide. It is a question of understanding the fundamental values acquired in the education system: freedom, morality, professionalism, solidarity, doubtful, are neither close to being represented in awareness nor in the need of education when it comes to our country. Unfortunately not. If they were, then we wouldn't have the scandalous appearances of that guy that a football player gives a public lesson in history, and the teacher is silent. We wouldn't. We would not naturally have a situation in which different publicly known persons demonstrate morality, and teachers and teachers whose job it is do not have the opportunity to come to terms. School doesn't have a chance to come to terms. If otherwise, we would not be in the area, there are no colleagues from the Istrian county who spoke before me, we would not have a devastating result that 20% of students according to one survey in the area of the county believe Ante Pavelic was an anti-fascist. He believes probably not because they learned in schools, but he believes because school is less powerful than football players compared to that kind of belief. And that's where I'll stop when these questions come in. I would move on to the question of redistribution of funds right at the moment when the current minister should bring his victim to the altar to reduce spending and cut budget spending. I don't know how many ministers you have to do it I know how long your predecessor had to do it. There is no doubt that further cutting budget assumptions for education and science is directly contrary to this strategy and should be said here today. This strategy is not a list of beautiful desires, as some say, but an imperative for better education and imperative for better science, and it will be a list of beautiful desires if we allow them to cut and reduce budget items for education and science, and we advocate to increase in some other places where there is room to reduce and where there is space and need to be reduced. It is necessary to see if it is good in the long term that we have a pension system like we have and such a system of budget spending when pensions are made and whether some sort of debate is needed and to see how far this system will be at the expense of education and science, just to mention them. Is it rational for such a small country that because of its godly participation in large peace missions, which are more missions of war than peace, and should be said immediately because the situation is such that it is not 2 or 3 million but several hundred million kunas, which for this area and this science and this education would be more than enough for them to have the means to work. I could quote more, but I'll stop here. There is room for rationalization within the existing system and existing networks, both schools, universities and possibly universities, and this requires a serious debate within those most concerned, but also requires serious debate within the government. In one period we have completely uncritically sown a whole series of universities and a whole series of institutions that of course do not correspond to what our opportunities are, do not meet what our needs are, and for this reason there is room for the rationalisation of the resources available or could be made available better, especially when science and research are involved. Our colleges, and those who work in colleges, are on the one hand due to the Bologna process, and on the other hand because of the cut-off in one period of serious scientific and research processes, are actually more teaching institutions than they are scientific and research institutions. I can't make it up to the institute, even if I don't know how many we're building, and we have to change that. We won't be able to change if we don't have a policy for it, and that's why we don't have an adequate budget base. Finally, Furio Radin, Dragan Crnogoorac and others would certainly resent me if I did not say what I think is important, which is that in this proposal we should include several sentences when it comes to minority education and the integration of minority education into the general system of education in the Republic of Croatia. There is no such thing here, probably not with bad intentions, and for this reason our clubs will propose a few sentences about it because it is extremely important for the development of tolerance, and the values of multiculturalism are extremely important, of course, for respecting the diversity of education in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87550	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first one will be brought out by the vice president of the House, the esteemed Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87551	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my dear colleague, with one part of what you've been saying, I disagree, but with one part of it, I absolutely agree, especially when you said that we need to see and whether we're going to let it shrink at the moment of the recent rebalancing, and after very soon again, budgeting for next year to continue to reduce money for science and research and education or not. Because in the end, as I've said many times and here, it all comes down to nice words. And that's why more of us have said that of the nice words unfortunately to the Croatian people, to Croatian citizens, to Croatian students of any benefit the great no. Only if we really behave the way we declare that we should behave will we achieve something, then this or any other strategy, however better or worse, will achieve some real goal that I don't doubt, or will not become at all, or indeed become just another paper that will be able to indicate that this government has brought so many and so many documents, this Parliament has brought so many and so many documents, etc. I don't really agree with you that everything is so black and that it's all teachers and teachers, especially for individual outbursts. For individuals, maybe they're the least guilty. We probably all carry guilt in society, with many of those who should raise their word in any way turns out to be such or such, on one side or on the other, and they don't. They only do things when they're on one side, and they don't do things when they're on the other side. However, I was most encouraged by you, in fact, to mention the national framework curricula. It was adopted in 2011, and it has been ignored that nothing has been done on it since then. It hasn't been developed, and it's been three years, it could have been done, and now it's actually proposing some kind of upgrade to some new reason. Why isn't that done? Nothing in the last three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87552	Thank you. Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87553	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Reiner, I agree with you that there is a risk that this remains a strategy as a document, but not a strategy as a working document from which new moments and new conditions will develop in education and scientific policy in the Republic of Croatia. But it's up to us not to. We're going to have budget rebalances here soon and we're going to have a budget. So both for you and for us, for me as well as for colleagues who form the basis of this ruling coalition, first of all from the SDP, and that is to realize that this issue of education and science is no longer a question that can suffer a reduction when it comes to budgetary resources. Let them suffer elsewhere. I deliberately mentioned some items, on purpose especially those other applications. As far as the teacher's question is concerned, we didn't get along very well. I don't blame any teachers. It is not their fault that the starlets and football players became more important symbols and larger role models than they are in both their places and their schools and in the general Croatian public. It's not their fault. It's someone else's fault that there's been a complete detour of those values. On the other hand, the current central committees are also guilty, regardless of what they don't like to be called, but they are central committees that attack schools, who wouldn't give their tax revenues away, but would hold moral and other traditions when, in the wake of school, they colonized public and secular education. Let's talk about it. Let's talk about it. Let's see how much it contributes. that the teacher no longer has the role he can play. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87554	A new replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87555	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague Pupovac. Here you can see these two, three days of imperatives being pronounced into the imperative is directed, directed by Minister Lalovac above all else. Almost, therefore, he cuts, in all the ministries, as well as in the ministry of the esteemed Professor Sailor. And science, education, research can't take it anymore, that's what you said yourself and we both know. Which is why, therefore, I agree with you with part of that speech, and what I don't agree with is that maybe it wasn't me I'm not gonna say you have the right to say whatever you want. But you said that education, that education, that school, is to blame for certain outbursts that happened, we know that. But here's what you'd say if I told you that it happened in our society a little undetected, that one TV commentator who commented on the weather forecast was no longer on Croatian television because he said what happened, that it had come down a thick fog above Zagreb without any other prognosis that was what it was. It was really thick fog above Zagreb. And when you talk about 20% of the students, the students say in some test that Ante Pavelic was probably the head, if you think, of other Anti Pavelic, was an anti-fascist. How much, do you think, on the other hand, does it say that Draža Mihajlovic was an anti-fascist? 90%. And I wouldn't want it to be measured, to compare at all, we even have monuments of official, legal, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87556	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87557	First of all, a respected colleague I really wouldn't want to consume the right to say anything because it's not exactly a right and I wouldn't recommend it to anyone. So it's right that he's saying what he thinks is right and worth saying at some point, and I thought what I was saying was right and worth saying at this point. So I wouldn't want to say anything. As far as Ante and Draze are concerned, they're far from home to both of them, as far as I'm concerned. And since this is our house, and since we don't have a problem with Draža, then we invite you to do it, and let those in whose house is the problem, Draža, that they deal with it. And when that becomes a problem for us, we'll deal with this problem together. So once again I say it's not the schools' fault that it is, it's the ones who forced schools and still impose that kind of interpretation of history. It is those who are most directly involved in this kind of formation of history and use and abuse places that should not be used for that kind of influence. That's what this is about. I would prefer that we teach our children the idea of freedom in our schools, if we taught them how to doubt what they hear and what they see when they get to the age when they can, but we don't. And for that reason it seems to me that once again I'm going to say what's a good guess I'm not going to say about a new school because it would remind me of other new things but I don't want it to end like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87558	Here comes the replica of the esteemed twilight, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87559	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, you are calling us in one section regarding this strategy. Shouldn't we be suspicious? You see, this strategy needs to be done, but is it this one? What are the assumptions? Is the assumption that the former minister who everyone already knows is no scientific worker, that there is no published scientific paper, as an example of good practice in the policy textbook and the economy of his closest associates, and that even 3, 4, I will not have them all here in the Parliament under the investigation of the DORH, publishing pictures, and perhaps there was another picture missing from Mr Jovanovic that this policy and the economy would be more acceptable to children. These are also examples and perceptions that we do not want in this Croatia. We don't want to do it that way. And yes, teachers need to be restored to dignity. Well, he can't come back to them if the former minister humiliates them and spits them out. If it's their turn to cut their wages, if they're the first ones who don't get paid travel expenses. I agree, we have a budget rebalance, yes, and now it's just a matter of how much this government will stand behind this strategy and how much it will allow Mr. Minister who is really a minister with a scientific biography to stand behind his and his teachers and to say no, you won't cut this rebalancing, you won't pay teachers and professors to touch. And then here we and I would personally consider this strategy to be feasible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87560	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87561	Dear colleagues, twilight, that I would forbid you to doubt, on the contrary, I would encourage you to doubt even more. But not only what others bring you, but what you can bring yourself. But what I tell you, I expect from myself, first of all. Therefore, I consider doubt to be one of the basic assumptions of free mind and free action. And when he's a former minister, I've never defended him before, so I won't defend him now, but the values that the former minister wanted to introduce into the Croatian school system like the values of civic education were all to defend together. We were supposed to defend ourselves for preserving civil school autonomy, and we didn't. We allowed this civil school autonomy to be compromised, we allowed public school autonomy to be compromised by various mechanisms. When you talk about cutting costs, I agree with you. Let's invite our colleagues to resist a linear indiscriminate policy of cutting budget spending. Let's go tell them where the priorities are. And this is one of the priorities, high priority, and it should be. And this strategy shows it. For small peoples such as Croatia and a small country such as Croatia, if the possibility of managing this element is still deprived, there will be nothing left to manage.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87562	The last replica, respected Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87563	Dear Mr. Vice President, I'd like to say that this strategy is a really nice set of wishes, and I could very well support it, and what else would have been, it said 100, 150 smart people. And that's probably why they're not even paid because they're domestic, because they have to work as a slave for nothing. It's not a good thing it wasn't paid 200 million as a health care company from France, it's the biggest flaw. The rest of me think it's okay. But I didn't answer because I'm going to spend time, my colleague Pupovac, you said it was necessary to save money to give enlightenment and education, and you mentioned that Croatia should not send military missions, I am against that opinion, Croatia is an independent state, a European strong state, should be profiled as one solid state and send missions around the world and in Kosovo. Some Croats are also in Kosovo to keep peace downstairs among the various nations that cannot, which could not agree. We have reached that level and needs Croatia to send a mission. And anyway, that money that our soldiers get, that some money, they spend back in Croatia, they pay VAT, because it's all a win again. But you know what? It needs to be rationalised in associations, it needs to be rationalized by associations such as the one in Preradovic's square that spreads religious hatred and against Orthodox, Catholic, Muslim and all its believers. Because they say Croatia without God, so it will be free Croatia. This should be done, Croatia gives three billion and two hundred thousand kunas which the central state should rationalise on those people like in front of the Rijeka HNK where the gay flag is placed yesterday on Statehood Day, that is, the Day of Independence of the Croatian State. Did we get to that level? What about those dead, what about those kids two feet underground, what about their parents, what about those who don't know where their kids are yet? And Mr. Pupovac, to you, you've only had trouble here with Anta, I've had trouble with Anta, with Jose but also with Draze. And 50 years ago, we had problems with Draza, and 20 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87564	Thank you. Well, you can't do a new sentence now. And I have problems with you because you don't respect the Rules of Procedure. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87565	Dear colleague Marasovic, I don't know what your problems were with either Ant or Draž, but believe me, from my own experience, a man has the most problems with himself, I tell you from my own experience, and there is no greater enemy that a man can have than one who creates from himself, but it's a good topic for another opportunity. What I wanted to tell you, what I think is valuable from your replica, is the question of justification and spending budget money on not saying everything, I didn't mention Kosovo, but some so-called so-called Kosovo. Peace missions and that should be said which are no longer peace missions, if ever, which are unfortunately war missions. And I wish it was like you're talking about our country. I wish she had a position of decision, an independent decision-making, and not that as it was recently heard that someone made a decision that we were a member of the coalition and that neither you nor I had a clue about it, let alone that we would decide. And that even the Prime Minister, at least as he says he didn't know, or the president of the state that we were going to be involved in something we didn't discuss. Is that independence? If that's loyalty, it's one story, but loyalty involves partnership and independent decision-making. This is too dangerous and too critical a time to be able to play like that, and at the same time I think it's finally time to stop selling foggy, vague formulas about what our country is, and that we finally start to apply it in the sense in which it deserves it and this people deserves it, which is to be where they can be, and where they can't be otherwise how they can be.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87566	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of DC, Novi val and Independent Representatives, Natalija Martincevic and Petra Baranovic, the respected Petar Baranovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87568	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that Mr. Vice President will forgive me for briefly taking the lead for my freedom to comment on a common environment and this... of our assembly debates. I guess I'm an incorrigible idealist when I believe that every working morning I enter this building to enter the Croatian Parliament, the State Parliament that should deal with... the state of this society, this country, the economy, education, science and all other segments, and in fact I seem to be entering some kind of history institute where we are more concerned with things that are already so exposed as a topic in this house, that it's becoming grotesque. Once again in the presence of the youngest, they were at the gallery until a moment ago, the greatest national wealth and those for which we are discussing this item of the agenda, both Draž and Ante and partisans and Ustashas and Chetniks and some other groups from that time were not mentioned. And I will, however, take the right to clearly comment this document and its applicability with a single folk dictionary, its importance in terms of the current state of education system in the Republic of Croatia, given the perspectives that there are those who have gone with a more likely worse impression immediately at the very beginning of their lives in this audience. Education in Croatia and this strategy, we welcome the idea of adopting a strategy or we think it is necessary to adopt a strategy is in this matter as well as in all other issues relevant to the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. By reading all the bodies of the forums, working groups to conclude very quickly that the most relevant names of the academic community have been participated in the development of the content of this document, as well as important political factors that create life. However, I will not take it as necessary or consider it necessary to enter some technical details that I especially explain the whole document from the beginning to the end, but I will look back at some practical things in life and the truth. All the political documents that are brought in, and even in good faith and with good intentions, rather than corresponding with the real state of society, do not actually have any great validity. When you read the introduction of this document, then you see in it some things that are absolutely necessary for every commendation of some guidelines that we have to agree with, the need to strengthen lifelong education, the need to ensure better vertical and horizontal transit in the education system, to improve both economic and real sector integration with scientific institutions, to raise the level of work in our scientific institutions to a higher level, to achieve what is very important, to achieve the standards that the EU and member states have in all segments are significantly lower, but then we must return to reality and say something about the category of equal right to access to education in this country. The question is for all those present, how many mothers in Croatia this year had grief in their eyes when it was necessary to buy school books, how many families in Croatia are in undeveloped areas like Like this, so we can say everything and about Slavonia that in big problems is very real, how many families in Dalmatia Zagora came into a dilemma whether they could go to high school, not to college about it later, not to doctorate, and about that later, but to high school. We live in a time when even hypothetically for state finances and for their consolidation to end the item on co-financing of high school transport was considered. So the reformists as a de facto party, and still deiura associations went public and opposed such an idea, so the government reacted spotlessly to good luck and got away from such an idea because such an idea would be devastating for a bad state as well. The issue of study, this morning during the presentation of an alarming situation faced by families of Croatian farmers in the Neretva valley and also in the Croatian continent, is an open question, I would like someone to tell me that they reject the arguments I am relying on, how many children from such families can access education in Croatian studies, at universities in a situation where their families are faced with bankruptcy, and we know that registrations are paid, we know that in certain situations certain circumstances and tuitions are paid, and we know that in colleges regardless of the disastrous social picture of Croatia for many years, there are not enough places and we know the truth that 3,4 thousand kunas are some real amount of monthly schooling in Croatian universities? So when we talk about the right equal approach to science and education, we have to refer to the current situation. In this study I read well there are measures envisaged to raise the capacity of dormitories, build new ones. The right of postgraduate study, those who are in the public sector who are in scientific institutions under the budget of the Republic of Croatia, of course have it resolved, the fundamental principles of excellence, I want to believe the fundamental principles of excellence, young people become doctors of science with the financial suport of their home, the money of Croatian taxpayers. And when you look at it in the context of ambition to raise the number of academic citizens and their share in the total population, then it's positive. At this economic point, in a difficult situation, where both the following circumstances and the increased tax presession on the real sector to the economic sector, I ask the question of what have we done for people who are building their careers in the real sector in the economy to get an equal chance to finance their doctoral study? No, in this situation, they must finance it in the most part themselves sometimes by raising credits with already known interest in the Croatian banking system. Is this the country that wants to be arranged or is this Orwell's farm where everyone is equal and some are more equal than the others? Does this Strategy provide answers to these questions? We want to achieve a larger share of those who finish colleges. When you look at the biology of the Tropic Pyramid, then you start from the primary production and you see that climbing to every higher level of usability factors reduces, i.e. to reduce the rate of usability. When you look at the data on the number of those in Croatia today in the 21st century who don't even have primary education, then you don't even have to look at the data in high school education. It is clear to you that even the share of those who end up in these circumstances, I am stressing the difficult high school is falling even more. And this pyramid goes on the rope finally to those who finish colleges that are about half of the European Union's 30% standard in Croatia, the average value of EU member states. How and in what way to avoid it, the proposal for reformers, as you can formally call me an independent representative as I am deura right now, is to view high school education as a possible compulsory education in this country. You know, you used to be able to drive, manage the most complex technical systems at that time and with basic school. The steam engine wasn't the problem with driving with the elementary school either. Is there anything you can do with elementary school today? Do you give these young people any perspective? Can we, as a society, afford such a respectable number and share of the total population of people who are objectively disabled career, professionally, human responsibility of this House and executive authority? How and in what way will we achieve goals if we cut somewhere halfway, not going? That's the truth. That's the truth. And the real truth that all the well-drawn objectives of this Strategy, which I personally like, must be corresponded to other sectoral strategies and must be taken seriously so that, in the debate on the next state budget, it would not already come as a parliamentary representative and a man who has responsibility for his conscience that I am combining this same budget and his items with the imperatives and tasks set out in this Strategy. Finally, someone said one very practical thing this morning, one very objective remark, it is a strategy that determines the future of this nation. Without education, without competitiveness with other nations, with citizens of other European countries we will make our nation disabled. This document and especially its real feasibility are condicio sine qua non survival of this society. It would be wise, and in that part, we agree with the proposal that this document be discussed in two weeks for a public debate, for its further consultation, this serious matter is discussed in two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87569	I'm grateful we have 9 replicas reported, but we'll be able to hear only 2 or 3. The first one will be brought out by Giovanni Sponza, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87570	Here is a respected colleague in your opening part you spoke of the political standard and spoke of the responsibility that I hold to be fundamental and that is lacking among all of us who make this convocation of the Croatian Parliament. In today's debate very often, on the basis of this strategic document, which is crucial for the prosperity of our country, we look back from my point of view in the short term on the rebalancing for this year and the budget for next year. The question is whether we are aware and whether we are really able to stop being narrow, exclusive and our energy is directed and to think about something that is long-term and which is sustainable, and these are measures, decisions and laws concerning the promotion of the economy, redundancies of the economy and the promotion of investment. If we stop dealing with the past and learn lessons from the past because the gene of these today's problems is right in our past and if we stop being exclusive and narrow where we really need to change the culture of dialogue we need to suppress the policy of destruction and actually base a political standard on how better, how better, by offering concrete solutions and concrete measures. Everyone calls for consensus but definitely and for now it remains on a rhetorical level. We've got to start changing. I'm the first one alone because if we don't go tomorrow we can't go any further. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87571	The replica corresponds to the respected Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87572	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Sponza, yes, of course, in several situations because it repeats itself in this house almost on a daily basis, I tried to appeal that we stop dealing with the past and that it is exclusively a teacher of our lives but that there is no topic every day that separates us from the real problems, the real topics and the real contents that are set out in the agenda. And you said in this question of yours, are we really mature enough and ready to give through mature and responsible discussions and certain suggestions and corrections to the given content, so here I will take this opportunity and you've given me a chance to fix something that I've missed as a proposal to Mr. Minister, Croatian Government, and it's about some imperatives that have been drawn up in this strategy, which is this imperative of raising levels and the number of people with higher education, including people with postgraduate studies and academic references. It is for us to consider tax-delivery, i.e. to see a way through tax policy, to motivate real-sector businessmen to invest in the lifelong education of their employees and to invest in higher education or in the postgraduate of their employees and to enable equal access and achievement of the goals of those people I stress do not build in a public sector in which it is possible but have chosen the harder but more quality way in the real economic sector. So consider, gentlemen, the possibility of opening up space and motivation through tax policy to economies to co-finance both lifelong education and further education for their employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87573	Another replica, the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87574	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Baranovic, first of all, the debate today in the time we are talking about this makes little sense. I would not allow myself the right to think that Minister Morar or former Minister Jovanovic or Flego or Radovan Fuchs or Mr Primorac, all the ministers who were in this, who are responsible or irresponsible for what is called the current fate of Croatia in which we are. You mentioned historical circumstances that I wouldn't go back to, that's what I said, which is why Parliament's level is what it is. Unfortunately, we will have a strategy of education, science and technology, so I will mention my city of Osijek where we have built people, education either by Bologna, by a system that we had to introduce a few years ago that I don't think is bad, when they replaced their city with Dublin, Ireland. So hundreds of young people with colleges left Slavonia and Osijek and other cities and replaced their country with another country, a member of the European Union. I think that the cancer of our society is a bad economic situation and unfortunately without any politicizing on this subject that I do not want, and I myself was part of a system of science and higher education, the government failed in its Plan 21 and the real picture is actually an economic situation that is bad and also a portfolio of science and education in which there is not enough financial resources. If you are forced by the situation in the country of economics to have a rebalance for which you have no reason why you must have it in this sector now of education, you must take money from teachers, from scientists, highly educated people, professors, we used to work until the afternoon, lectured for regular students of extraordinary, wanted a perfectly better society, but we don't have enough resources. I think the key is whether we can get out of this crisis primarily financially, and then in a peaceful environment we can seek consensus on the National Strategy for Education, Science and everything else. There's no way out or help out.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87575	The replica matches Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87576	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Salapic, the current situation in the country is really bad, but it has been bad for years and it would be true for the sake of incorrectly taking responsibility exclusively for this government because of the situation that we are in today and because of the challenges and difficulties it is dealing with, more or less successfully. This document that has been discussed today is one of the basic documents and guidelines that should give us an answer on how to get out of this state and the task of this government is to find tools and ways to adapt to the difficulties that we face and face today because of a series of unresolved issues, missed policies. What is the task of this government, among other things, in the context of this document, is to ensure the flexibility of the system because it is true that the current way of education has produced a large number of people who cannot find their place on the labour market, and on the other hand we have a whole series of activities where we are disabled, and that our education system does not remove the necessary quality or quantity of personnel. This is one of the questions that if the implementation of this strategy succeeds, at least partially, we will have a much better and better social and economic situation, and then it will be much easier for the government to address the issue of finance that are in a great deal of conflict with mathematics in a satisfactory way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87577	Third replica, Reverend Iron Happy Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87578	I think it should be primarily clear that every strategy is normative, that means the future. This strategy seeks to correct the bad situation in education and science and if you blame all of us who have managed this sector, as well as all those who have decided on it, I will accept my part of the blame, of course not to the same extent as the others. But it would be good if, in this key segment of education as many have said, it could only get us out of the crisis, looking for what is common to us, not what is different to us. And this strategy has two very important conjectures. First, it will become the basis for finding a new normative framework for all these activities, and then there will be no more objections and secondly, I hope that after this strategy is adopted, there will be such a mood towards education and science that no one dares to ask to reduce the budget of these activities and I primarily plead to the minister because the task is so much, and the system is so poor and extremely rich with potentials that there would be another growling of the future if we cut off any of this poor budget which so far, that I do not mention material situations in the countries of the European Union, both in those old democracies and in those new ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87579	The replica matches Petar Baranovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87580	Thank you very much. Well, I agree with you, Professor. Flego that we should look together to discuss this problem, and I think there's at least a consensus in this House that this is a very important topic, that this is a fundamental topic that, if treated, we should create assumptions that we've been coming out of this ugly situation that we've been in for a long time. What I wanted to point out in my presentation is what the problem is right now and what we should pay attention to to making this strategy implemented and operational, because its content is certainly as I said in the presentation nice, acceptable. We can all stick in this room around the fundamental imperatives of this strategy agree. However, there remains a question without answering how today's unemployed in Croatia, how today with those who have been paid, how to enable families who are fighting for a naked existence to have their members to join the system of higher education or how to prevent us from missing the percentage of young people from the secondary education system due to the material situation in the country because of the country's social situation. So the debate on these problems and the truth is both necessary and sound. Any policy that is not referred to and is not based on the truth, realistic indicators were missed at the very beginning, no matter how convenient, acceptable and termological9 was well engaged. I think we understand each other well now, and as for the reduction of resources in the state budget for science, education and certain items in the budget, such as items separate from the financing of scientific and research projects, our scientific institutions, houses, institutes compared to other budget items, is simply a tragic, inadmissible low amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87581	We'll hear more of the vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87582	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Baranovic, I was encouraged by the replica of what you said about elementary school. Interestingly, no one today mentioned something that was said to the public about the media, which is to propose 9-year basic education, although the latest amendments to the Preschool Law provided for compulsory preschool. And now this strategy, however, does not solve one of the major structural problems of the Croatian education system, which is that students who do not continue to continue education from the system are leaving at 14, 15 years as an unqualified workforce who, since he is 16 years old, is still legally unable to enter the labour market and is located in a gray zone. And now with this extension as it's conjectured, we're just going to achieve that they're actually keeping in the system longer. We will coordinate the duration of the education system with some European countries, about a dozen countries are 9 years old, but a dozen countries are 10 years old. And actually, I have to admit, I haven't been able to figure out why it's been going to nine years yet. Isn't 10 years better, even longer? I mean, what's the argument of those nine years, and especially not to solve this problem that you mentioned that people who finish primary school actually stay somewhere in the deleted space, have no qualifications, can't do anything and are too young and start doing anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87583	Replication response, Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87584	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Reiner. I will not take the right to go into these details, because the people who wrote these details under this strategy are people with impressive references and there is a very great experience in the education system. And I personally believe that their experiences and their empirical knowledge of the practical functioning of this system and of all the sequencings that it carries have been incorporated into this strategy. But since you've already opened that question I'm going to use yours now, this question of yours to point one more thing that I didn't do during the debate, and that's a question of three years of craftsmanship in the context of the right to further education and in the context of better vertical passing through the system. In fact, we know that students who are trained in craftsmanship in three years of schooling are in fact one way stopped in the ability to continue schooling in colleges, that is, their course of that schooling is quite complicated and costing, so it would be good for the minister and his associates to think about the model in which the state graduation and the possibility to lay down for them. It won't be a mass phenomenon, but there are people in the crafts system, young people who feel the need and ability to continue school in the further course of their lives, and should make it cheaper, more accessible and efficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87585	Thank you. I'm setting a break by 3:00. We'll continue with the replicas. The right to replicate will be given to a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. Bon appetit!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87586	Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues of the Croatian Parliament, first one correction... of today's. Since we have used relatively well by noon in the work of the Croatian Parliament, I suggest that today we do not do the 2nd item of the agenda, the proposal for a strategy to take care of radioactive waste used sources of spent nuclear fuel, to do so tomorrow, and today we continue with the 3rd, 4th and 5th points of the agenda and so announced... so that we do not go deep into the night, we did not predict dynamics. If you don't mind, I'd like to continue with the replicas and answers to the replica they left in the morning session. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87587	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. We heard today on several occasions that in the preparation of the strategy it is primarily necessary to take care of analytical preparation and analysis of data in order to then come to a concrete problem and offer a solution. I think that's the way to approach the debates that are being prepared especially when it comes to such an important subject, so that the evaluations don't have to be flat-rate. Here, counterpart Baranovic asked the question by assuming that nothing had happened, in which way students from flooded areas were helped. Well, my colleague Baranovic, if you had a closer look at what the government did, you would have seen that all the students in the flooded areas had received one-time aid of 10 thousand kuna, that they had all received direct enrolment in student homes and that they had been granted a scholarship of 1200 kuna. All primary and secondary school students received free textbooks, thus showing that the government has solved the problem very well. If you had also studied the documents a little better, you would have seen that in Croatia all students who have completed three years of school can now be free of charge, about the cost of the state, end the 4th grade, and thus obtain the conditions for the state's graduation. So I would really ask all my colleagues to check the data first, and then give reviews and suggestions for a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87588	Replica response, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87589	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, you have noted very well that it is the first good thing to check what is said and only then give the grades. It would be good if after this you requested a recording of my exposure and found out in which part of my exposure I mentioned students from flooded areas. I absolutely didn't mention any students from flooded areas, nor did I say that the government did nothing because I know that she did and logically she did, it would have been disastrous and terrible if she hadn't responded to the situation. I was talking about a much wider and much longer problem, the one that arises under the regular circumstances of this country. So, I kindly ask you to do exactly what you advised yourself to do, to listen carefully to my presentation and to find the part in which I specifically mention flooded areas because I did not say so. I did not even say in my presentation that the government does not foresee activities or does not carry out activities to facilitate students who are disabled in various ways to access the education system, but I have made it very clear and I am behind the need to create new measures and be realistic in assessing the necessary measures in order to truly enable everyone to have equal access and equal chances according to the intensity of the strategy. So thanks for the advice, and on my part in answering the advice that you do exactly the same, principled and listen to the presentation I had in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87590	Thank you, too. Honorable representative, Kresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87591	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In your speech, you mentioned the share of academic citizens in the total number of people in the Republic of Croatia. It is important, but it is much more important that the number of academic citizens on the HZZ be ratio. It is often mentioned in this material, the autonomy of the university. It is important for us to mention the deficit, surplus and what is felt in the units of local, regional and national administrations, to slowly prepare at Croatian universities. But this challenge and the challenge of a new time don't feel in a resolute ministry because you just have a situation that more and more... people we really have on the market are too much, and there are often certain activities that we don't have. Therefore, this surplus and deficit is as important as the plans that, what you said, will be sectoral strategies. There are no sectoral strategies, and even worse when there's one Plan 21 that didn't say, let's say, that they would be abolished... that they would end up helping certain areas and having a situation in Slavonia and Baranja that villages remain empty, before people went to cities, and now we're getting out of cities. Therefore, without sectoral strategies and without clear goals to write in the budget there is no help to Slavonia and Baranja and we will not be able to stop those of the highest quality, the best that leave the Republic of Croatia daily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87592	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87593	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I mean, this strategy apostrophes the need for the flexibility of the education system and its adaptation, i.e. the adaptation in planning the needs of the real economy and the labour market, and this is indeed something that is one of the basic values of this document because the fact that so far in the lack of strategy and strategic approach we have had the production of personnel that remained at the Employment Office forever, and on the other hand we have come to the situation that even at the lowest educational levels and in vocational education we have a lack of those professional profiles and people with qualifications that are needed for the needs of the real Croatian economy today and especially what awaits us in the future. Of course, it is necessary to bring forward all sectoral strategies as soon as possible in order to actually be a guide and reference to the implementation of those basic provisions of this strategic document, so that the education system itself has clear data and clear projection needs to be able to plan school teaching activities and programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87594	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87595	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, here's my replica going in this direction, you said at some point that one of the solutions to the problem of education could be solved by introducing compulsory high school education. I don't think that's the way to go because that way we won't achieve much. You see, in terms of development, I'll say it vividly, it may not be a real example, but it's quite picturesque, when you develop operating systems in information, the first operating systems or those in the past have been turned towards the idea, in English it would be anything you see is what you get, later it changed into form what you get is what you see. To translate that, so you saw those tools on the screen and those tools you saw you could use. Later, however, the operating system developed by seeing only those tools you use. I think I see the greatest value of this strategy right here in this Copernicus plant because actually this strategy predicts that young or eventually all age groups are educated in accordance with the needs of the society in which we are. So, not in a way that there are already defined programs that are imported into the school system and quite strictly defined but that the education system is designed in such a way that young people and all those who want to be educated get the knowledge they need at that time. In this sense, mandatory secondary education is not seen as one of the possible solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87596	Replica response, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87597	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear colleague, I will now make a very brief argument, which is why I feel that compulsory high school education is necessary. That we had a volunteer military service in the '80s in '91. The years would have fallen like the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in six days. Happiness and God had a mandatory military service so the guys from the cafe knew how to do the tools and saved this country and allowed us to discuss these topics in the Croatian National Assembly today. High school education as an obligation is normal for a society that accepts change, which accepts more dynamic technological advances, more dynamic changes in living conditions. Finally, secondary education imposes both the obligation and the national policies and units of local self-government and regional self-government units to adapt their actions to the assumption that it does. Otherwise, in this situation such as the government in Croatia in the social context in a situation of growing poverty, an increasingly poor civic and family standard, it is clear that we will not have an increase in the proportion of young people with a high school that would be adapted to the challenges of today's life than we will have the decline of that population. And that's the only basic motive. And without enough fund-raisers with finished high school, we can't think objectively about increasing those who have higher levels of education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87598	Thank you too, dear colleague. We've exhausted the replicas and answers to the replica from this exhibit. It is now up to the club List of Independent Representatives and Honored Representative Ivan Grubisic. He's not in the assembly, he's losing his right to talk about this. It's the HNS club and the esteemed representative Igor Coleman. My dear colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87599	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, esteemed ministers and professors. You're a fool. So here we are finally, after a long time of mentioning and calling this truly capital document in which an impressive number of experts participated. I must begin by congratulating professor. A fool at a huge job done in coordination with the development of this strategy. It wasn't really an easy job, but it was an important job, and it seems to be well done. When I speak capital document, I really think we at the HNS Club really think it's one of the most important proposals we've ever had to discuss in this term. And not only because, of course, we are all declarative and there is no difference in knowledge and education, but because in Croatia we have a really serious problem on this issue. We have too few educated and we have questionable skills and knowledge at the end of any degree of education. We have many people with qualifications who are not only wanted from the past but also from the quotes "produced". In comparative research on skills and competences at all levels of education, we do not go well, all in a country that lived until a few years ago in the illusion that it has the best education in the world. On the agenda of the Parliament at this time is also an industrial strategy, and this strategy is also partly related to the education strategy and warns us also that we have a serious problem, we are constantly missing a whole series of qualifications, and some of us are producing to quote that strategy "For the Storage." And the availability of qualified people is one of the fundamental preconditions for any serious investment. No one's going to invest in a country where there's no one working in a company and we can't just be a warehouse-trade economy. But back to the very beginning, when we talk about education and strategic thinking, and planning education, we have to ask ourselves what the foundation is, and the basis is that the child goes to school and that the school is good. This means that the first step state and units of regional and local self-government must ensure that all children go to school. And that, of course, at first glance can only seem understandable, but away from that. For elementary school like that, but for high school it's already a much bigger problem. Many children in Croatia did not go to high school for reasons such as: the cost of transport. That is why we have introduced co-financing for the transport of students to school and can never, ever give up on it again. But, of course, there is also how the situation in Croatia depends and what administration in its municipality, city or county people have. Like that. just to mention a few examples in Lepoglav, or Ivanac, or Varazdin County, children go to new schools, built by a public-private partnership mainly in one shift with new halls, e.g. in Zagreb, which in every respect is disastrously mismanaged by children sitting in old schools, sometimes still in three shifts with laurels and buckets on the floor when it rains. The second step that is the basis of all is that teachers who work in these schools know what they do and want to do it. And it can't just depend on their goodwill. And education, and professional development, and the status of profession must ensure it without exception. In the area of pre-school, primary and secondary education, this strategy provides for several very important things of crucial importance. Because if we misconceive that part of education and education, we no longer have any chance of higher education, nor of science, nor of general progress as a society. The foundation is a complete reform of the curiculum in our opinion. We often say that, but urgently and finally we need to focus on learning outcomes and the development of competences from the transfer of content. This means the application and content of education and ways of teaching and learning, and a whole series of measures. In this sense, this strategy foresees and it seems crucial to us and we support it. The strategy also provides for the development and introduction of an overall system of evaluation, evaluation and reporting on the level of adoption of learning outcomes. This is unusually important both at the level of students, with a fundamental goal of diagnosing and correcting learning gaps and at the level of teachers and teachers whose education unfortunately does not pay enough attention to this. Of course, the next step is the technology base of the whole process, the development of digital educational content, tools and methods of using information and communication technologies in learning and teaching. But they're not enough for themselves because their foundation is content that still gives people, but at tool level. These technologies today are inevitable, today's children whose mice and keyboards are stone age, the lack of information and communication technologies in the school's education process needlessly and further away from themselves, from the way they see, think and communicate with the world. And that's something that needs to be changed too. The strategy also provides for extensions of compulsory elementary school from 8 to 9 years. The arguments that are mentioned have both logical and professional justification but this extension cannot be a step for itself, it cannot be in some way the first and only step because this nine-year-old school must be this new school that provides for a strategy with a new curricula, a new attitude towards learning and learning outcomes. And of course with teachers who are with that school in progress. And then as the next key goal of raising the quality of work and social reputation, I stress the teacher. From initial education through traineeship and permanent professional development it is immensely important. He can't teach for 35 years, I speak from his own schooling experience, teach lessons he wrote at the end of college in a notebook, and that notebook, wrapped in tape for 35 years, he's taking classes and reading lessons, and then he can really take a robot. But, of course, it should be kept in mind that teachers in Croatia receive the lowest average salary of highly educated employees by activities in the Republic of Croatia, and it really needs to be changed. Increasing the quality and professional status of teachers is also important because of the equalisation of opportunities for quality education in all parts of Croatia. One of the problems we have is the deficit of qualified teachers who is the largest in the poorly developed regions of Croatia and then it becomes a closed circle of unequal opportunities at the very beginning of our lives and the lives of our children in the Republic of Croatia. Our students are weak in international comparative research on tasks that examine higher levels of knowledge such as the application of knowledge, the integration of knowledge, conceptual understanding and conclusion. And this suggests that we also need a direct quote on the strategy "Constitutional improvement of initial and continuous education and training, and ensuring better working conditions and full professionalisation of teaching professions to keep the best individuals ready for lifelong learning and professional development in the profession." What we also want to highlight in HNS in this strategy is the development of a complete system of support for students including support for learning, psychological support, career counselling and specific forms of support for children with disabilities and gifted children. It's simply a matter of fundamental rationality. We are far too small to allow ourselves not to take advantage of the limited potentials available to us to the maximum. That's why we need individual access and individual support. And of course, another important goal is to ensure optimal working conditions in educational institutions with an emphasis in our opinion on equating work throughout Croatia, the principle of equal opportunities no matter where we were born, no matter where we live, is the principle that we often point out in the Croatian Parliament. The second part of the strategy I would like to talk briefly about on behalf of the HNS is adult education and lifelong learning, in this segment of the Republic of Croatia unfortunately also lags behind developed countries and this needs to be changed urgently. Lifelong learning and education must become an integral part of our lives, I return to the industrial strategy again. The vast majority of employers who are... in the design of this strategy complain that although we have many unemployed on the market, their qualifications are mostly no longer consistent with the needs of companies, companies, employers who are those pro-pulsory activities that are expected to carry Croatian economic growth and development. When we talk about higher education in this strategy, it rightly seems to us, as the first goal sets out a consistent implementation of the Bologna reform by implying that it is not consistently implemented as we see fit, the adaptation of student programmes to social and economic needs and a clear definition of learning outcomes is foreseen. We both support it, but with the emphasis that we also need to be careful not to move too much to the other side again and to adapt to the current labour market needs only and only. Because on the one hand they are constantly changing, and on the other hand education only has to have a purpose beyond mere meeting the current needs of employers, it must and only be able to expand space, so the emphasis must again be on outcomes and competences. The strategy also provides for further development of the binary system, which means university and professional studies, because how this system now works in Croatia does not make much sense, and it really needs, to put it this way, a redesign that is foreseen by this strategy. This strategy is a rather extensive document covering a large number of topics and, of course, it is no problem in such a document to find various formal, technical and even substantive objections. And I could find, the fact is, already one of my previous mentions, minority education, minority education really isn't mentioned in that sense, it would be good if the amendment came, to accept it. The issue of compulsory high school remains in some way hanging in the air. But our idea and my idea is not to look for shortcomings and objections, the idea is that we need this strategy, and all those who say we needed it a long time ago, and they're right to say that we've had it a long time ago, maybe the situation would be a little different than it is. This strategy is good, in our opinion it shows in the right direction and as a living document, and these are both authors and coordinators and Minister Jovanovic and Minister Mornar and many colleagues here said, so it is a living document that will continue to develop, which will continue to grow, the HNS club fully supports it as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87600	Thank you too, dear colleague. Dear representative Martina Banic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87601	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Coleman, you've said a lot about the strategy and with a good part of it I agree. You talked about both children and the way kids are educated today, how much they're actually ahead of and even of these younger generations like you and I. When we talk about education and education system in Croatia, I think it is very important to say that our education system is unfortunately still lagging behind and does not follow enough trends relating to the media. For example, as far as media education is concerned. We know that in the EU, media education has come to life, we know that in the EU, children with media education meet in both elementary and kindergartens, and in primary schools it is something that is completely normal. In Croatia, unfortunately, children with media education, or media culture, only meet within the course of Croatian language, 45 minutes a month. To make things worse in Croatia until today, we have not defined the concept of media culture or media education or media literacy, even not mentioned in the Law on Education and Education in the primary and secondary schools that we changed last year. But there have been a lot of complaints here, and I want to praise this part of the strategy because since the first version of the strategy that we had in 2013 and to this day there have been some changes concerning media literacy, I certainly want to highlight and praise it because it is very important for children and young people, and then for adults, parents, grandparents and grandparents. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87602	Replicate response, distinguished representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87603	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Banic, I agree. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture has proposed several amendments at its last session, among these amendments is an amendment that talks about media literacy, about media education, there is also financial education as something ahead of us. The attitude of citizens with banks is a common topic in the Croatian Parliament, perhaps a basic education in matters of finance, would also not be bad. So, then, we talk about all sorts of skills, competences and outcomes that we want to achieve by education and learning. Of course I can't, I'm not in the main debate with, I resisted temptation, but here in response to the replica I won't, of course there must be civil and health education with all those elements as they were proposed in their original versions, we can't and can't give up for a variety of reasons. And as far as technology itself is concerned, the problem is that our schools don't follow the development of technology with which children, we're talking especially about children who are now moving or are just going to move to school, they're children who are almost not known as technology of the present, but rather as something strange that they've seen somewhere, but they're not using, the problem with the lack of known technology in my opinion unnecessarily moving the school away from the child on the one hand, but on the other hand, technology cannot and should not be meant for itself, therefore, content. She's just a tool, technology is still just a tool, he makes it easier, he gets closer, he can make children communicate with education and with school easier, but it's still just a tool. And content is what is the first step and what we must fundamentally change throughout that whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87604	The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87605	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, to agree with you and your discussion, however, I did have to react a little, but I do belong to an older generation, and I believe that those of us who finished high school or colleges are no less educated and no less competent than we should be. Of course, it all comes down to each of us investing in our own education. What I wanted to tell you as well we can't say that our universities are kind of like that contexts I'm going to take out yours now at least I figured out so that incompetent people come out, that I can't manage the market. This is not because here we see that the largest majority of our young scientists and older scientists in the world achieve extraordinary results, are appreciated and receive prestigious rewards. We would love to be in Croatia, however, the condition is only the money. Here is today the Croatian doctors have installed KBC Rebro's first artificial heart in Croatia, so these are all doctors who have been educated at our Faculty of Medicine. What I wanted to say was school closure, recently the former minister announced school closure especially for those who have fewer than five students, usually schools in the country or schools in the islands. So you see about this strategy should wherever a student exists, I need to organize classes and ensure that he does not travel that paid transport 40 or 50km or by ferry rather than have teaching where he's from, but it's all about money again. There's rebalancing and money gone again, our teachers and teachers are educated and they love their students and I think they give a lot of money to them given the situation they live in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87606	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87607	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the twilight, first of all, I really don't think so, and if I did apologize for saying that our colleges produce incompetent people, I wouldn't do that if I didn't dare say anything else considering the number of university professors here in this assembly, and I don't think we understand each other. But then you're saying let's tell the elite, the cream you're talking about scientists who collect international awards, you're talking about doctors who are doing the most sophisticated medical procedures, most modernly, is what you're saying is standing there. But the problem that Mom has is that we have 290,000 unemployed on the stock market and, unfortunately, that's what we rarely say here, unfortunately most of those 290,000 unemployed have qualifications that will be difficult in today's economy and in the development of our employment. So that's where we have to have a quick and effective change. But it's even more dangerous if we're not talking about the top and best and the most successful ones today, but if we're still producing not only at the university, in high school, in vocational schools, if we produce, it's ugly to say, if they come out of our high school, out of our vocational schools, out of our universities, people who have qualifications, people who have competences have skills, they have the skills they need to survive today in the world we live in, and that's the question I'm asking. And it seems to me that since the strategy foresees radical changes in that sense, I can then assume that the authors of the strategy agree in part that this is an area where we need a change and we absolutely support it, and that was all I had to say about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87608	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87609	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Coleman, you could indeed say in a panegiric one praise about this strategy some things you forgot. Namely, you didn't mention one thing, you said that students have free transportation is correct and it's excellent, but look at this in some things unequal practice depending on the unit of local self-government in the Republic. In the town of Zagreb, children on benches are waiting for free textbooks in Slavonski Brod in Brod-Posavina County in Vukovar-Srijem County and there are no other counties. No local self-government unit can do that in Slavonia almost. Secondly, those who should implement the strategy are starting with our teachers, teachers, etc. are in one of their standards and their dignity should be preserved in order to implement this strategy. On them lies it as on the users of children, students, students. But if you might know, maybe you don't know it's for example. The price of transportation if the professor doesn't take the car to work then he gets 75 limes per mile. How much do you get when you come to the Croatian Parliament and I? Two kunas per mile. They get 75 lip per mile. They could have used a bus ticket before, so the price of a bus ticket is replaced by a car, the price of a bus, now I can't do it, that's Minister Jovanovic, so he did the previous one, and thus he really put the standard at risk and not only that there are a number of other things. Look, let them tell you how they get paid every month down there. Standard and dignity of those who need to implement the strategy in particular in primary schools and secondary schools is threatened and this strategy will be difficult to implement in this way. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87610	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87611	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Grubisic, indifference of standards by county, you are one part right, one part wrong I must tell you because one part of it was in the county itself and there was no reason to say the county you list or, for example,. The city of Zagreb, which I often highlight as an example of poor governance in the Republic of Croatia, does not make what is e.g. It was built by the Varazdin County, which built 38 schools and halls with public partnerships, and there most students go to a school shift in a new building with new equipment with a new hall. So it's not always just the state. There are differences in both counties and cities and municipalities. The other part, I agree with you. What we as a state should achieve is this equality of chance that I often talk about. So basic schooling especially, preschool and then primary schooling significantly affects the equality of the initial chances of all the people in this country, all the members of society, and in this sense some minimum standards under which you can't go should really be agreed, achieved and then realized in reality. As for how much I get for coming to the Parliament, I get nothing because I live too close, but you're basically right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87612	We're moving on. It is the Club of National Minorities Representatives in the Croatian Assembly and the Honorable Representative Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go, colleague Veljko.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87613	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with a representative, respected colleagues and colleagues. It is unquestionable that this strategy represents a basic framework for the development of education, science and technology and this wide scope and complexity of the proposed changes require a political, professional and public consensus and mobilising all reform potentials in order for this extremely complex document not only to remain a list of beautiful desires. This document is of express importance because it will represent the main thread of the leader of Croatian education, technology and science for the next few years. Certainly, the number of participants in this Strategy and their professional qualifications guarantee a thorough approach to the topics covered by this Strategy. To analyse such a comprehensive document by piece, it would take a lot of time and debate. In my presentation, I will limit myself to the part about minority issues and especially Roma as a social group that a little... in education, almost nothing in science and technology. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We should praise one of the basic thoughts that goes through the entire document, which is the equality of educational opportunities. Thus, it is stated that each child and every student has the right to their highest educational development. Equality of educational opportunities is based on the social justice of education and education cannot be... from a minority thread can be reduced according to differences between ethnic, sexual, gender or other social conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Roma in Croatia characterizes an extremely low level of education that reflects social exclusion and high unemployment. That is why I believe that education is the first step towards improving their living conditions and a key mechanism for full integration and socialisation in the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore incomprehensible that, apart from pre-school education, there is almost no mention of the issue of Roma education, which we have previously highlighted is just a part of the population to which special attention should be given in order to improve their level of education. I point out that the Roma population is officially close to 17 thousand people, unofficially even twice as many and the Roma families traditionally have a lot of children or schoolboys. It should certainly be commended for the decision to ensure a two-year integrated preschool education and education for all Roma children. It is clearly noted in the strategy that there is a great correlation between the setting of preschool education and education programmes and school success... with the duration and quality of these programmes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact that Roma children in young age are often characterised by poor knowledge of Croatian language, often affecting worse results of Roma children, leading directly to early school leaving, causing poor educational qualifications of members of the Roma population. The plan should also be commended to the area where such a type of preschool education is not possible for preschool education through the Roma Association Social Care Centre, and in particular the local self-government unit. However, it should be noted that this document does not show a number of hours and the duration of preschool education because in practice, such programmes only last two months a year for an average duration of 2 hours which is insufficient to achieve quality results. It is also commendable to open playgrounds for kindergarten children in Roma settlements. We hope that the first obstacles to the implications of this project will not lead to a failure in the implementation of this project, which is of crucial importance for the Roma population since it is increasingly recognised, that education is a prerequisite for better life and progress. I have to mention here that this kind of playroom needs to be properly equipped and prepared to make the children feel comfortable and to encourage learning. As regards one of the basic preconditions for achieving easier access to education free textbooks, this is not mentioned in this Strategy. There is also no mention of the need to provide textbooks in the language of national minorities whether it is a model a, b or c. We should also make it easier to obtain pedagogical qualifications for members of national minorities, so that they can teach the national language and culture. For example, allow the mentioned members of the Russian national minority who teach Russian language and culture according to the national minority education model. There is the most difficult situation with a Roma national minority who does not have its home country and thus no textbooks in the Roma language exist. I therefore point out once again, the importance of recognising the Roma language as the 8th language of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. Since this is a prerequisite for the creation of textbooks in the Roma language, many Roma families characterise an extremely poor economic condition that makes it impossible to... school supplies, which often results in worse school success and giving up schooling. The members of almost all national minorities are characterized... in rural areas of the Republic of Croatia which often fall into poorer parts of the country. Also, the equally important issue of free school transport is not being handled, and it seems that this issue is left for the resolution of local self-government which often will not be... or will be able to fully finance the transport to school since they themselves are struggling with the issue of financial sustainability and the cost of textbooks and transportation would be too much burden on the budget of local self-government. To praise and decide by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to finance 75% for this school year in the transport of students, but it seems that such a decision is only valid for this year and is... the state of state finances which ultimately means that there is a reasonable possibility that in the middle of the missing state register this decision is changed in a negative sense, this year or next school year. A particularly sensitive transport situation for Roma schoolboys, since Roma live in isolated settlements outside the city, where there are largely no schools and their free transportation to school is a basic condition for inclusion in the education process. Free transport is also necessary for the participation of extracurricular activities such as sports and music activities. For example, members of Serbian, Roma and other national minorities live in remote villages that do not have the necessary facilities for any extracurricular activities such as sports or some kind of art. As far as secondary education is concerned, it is certainly commendable to allow... free enrolment in high school programmes to members of the Roma national minority who had previously completed primary schooling and we believe that this measure will positively affect... the number of Roma with secondary qualifications. In order to further motivate Roma to participate in higher secondary education, high school should be declared mandatory for all students, thus affecting Roma's acquisition of the necessary qualifications for employment and thus not being beneficiaries of social assistance. There is no doubt that there is inequality in access to higher education, especially for persons of lower socio-economic status, young people with health problems and disability, children without parental care and children of Roma nationality such as research... in the strategy. That is why it is important to review the practice of sending Roma children to three - year - old vocational schools because it makes it impossible to enrol in college. In addition, Roma should be allowed direct enrolment in colleges, which would directly contribute to the increase of their numbers and reduce a very small percentage of highly educated Roma. In particular, attention should be paid to the employment of highly educated members of the Roma population in order to create an example in the Roma community and thus motivate as many Roma as possible to enroll the university and acquire academic titles. But as I have pointed out before on the issue of small Roma participation in high school, and especially in higher education in this strategy, which should be the basis for the development of implementation plans to improve the current situation, we can learn little or no. A significant part of this strategy is dedicated to the issue of adult education, however it is the Roma that characterizes below average education, just to enable adult Roma to acquire high school qualifications, the need for better integration into Croatian society. It is necessary to facilitate access to adult education, i.e. to make schooling costs as low as possible for students to improve living conditions through adult education and increase the number of Roma employees. I would certainly point out good cooperation with Professor Neven... and his associates in drawing up this strategy. In conclusion, I believe that this strategy has led to some shifts towards better education of minority population in the Republic of Croatia, but that it has partly failed to define certain details. We hope that in the process... these shortcomings that I have recently cited will be corrected for better education in order for Croatia to truly become a country of knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87614	Thank you, too, dear fellow Kajtazi. We're going to the replicas, the respected representative of the Sun's Head and her replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87615	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Kajtazi, you know very well, I come from Međimurje County, and in Međimurje County lives officially over 11,000 Roma. My question concerns one part of your debate, I'd actually ask you another way. Why would the strategy separate members of the Roma national minority from the overall strategy and particularly apostrophe them? Don't you think the strategy actually does everything to integrate members of the Roma national minority and thus actually have what you call or seek equal chances. To give members of the Roma national minority equal chances in Međimurje County, I will show you very clearly, which is that every year 1400 students are present in the system of education in Međimurje County, that they have free transportation, lunch, lunch and all have free textbooks. You are talking about a small number of Roma national minorities in the system of secondary education, but the problem is not that the system would not allow it. The problem is in some passive way, I will call it a mildly spoken resistance because members of the Roma national minority unfortunately give up after primary school education, do not continue education. So I would like them to integrate more into the community, not in some way to resist the community in which they are. So almost 3 million kunas stand out only in the County of Međimurje for members of the Roma national minority who really have many, as I think in this strategy, said one of my distinguished colleagues, we could say "so what?", it's written and what we're going to do next. So it is not only a problem to single out one national minority, the problem is whether this strategy will answer the question and whether it is actually in line with what challenges the economy and whether the strategy will actually in some way educate and raise people who will still be able to find their place in the labour market through this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87616	Thank you, too. Replication response, distinguished representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87617	... Roma national minorities, I think we should. [[You don't understand.]] I will bear in mind that of all 22 national minorities recognised by the Republic of Croatia, the only Roma national minority at risk and the poorest. Among other things, the only one has two strategic documents, which is an action programme and a national programme for the Roma. It is true, and we also know well that the action plan provides both the means and the goals and the realisation itself, but there is nothing else, there is no responsibility what if it is not implemented. That's one thing. Secondly, you stated that there were 11000 Roma declared in Međimurje, while you said elementary school education was 11400. It turns out that every... 1400, then it turns out that every 10. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Rom goes to elementary school which is not true at all. That's data that's certainly not true because if we're talking about the 11,000 Roma that you said, and the other one you said about 1,000 turns out to be every 10. Rom goes to elementary school which I don't think is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87618	Thank you, too. Damir Tomic, a respected representative and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87619	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Kajtazi, you have well noticed that the Government gives 75% of the resources to transport students. I'm not going to give examples now, I'm sorry that some counties, cities have not been participated in these 25% and I'm sorry especially, and I have examples, of course I'm coming from Slavonia, so it'll be clear to you that I'm thinking about Slavonia that some local sheriffs are taking advantage of carriers, but that's no longer a topic for this debate. I'll take another chance to say the Founders aren't doing their job. The founders only worry about choosing a school principal, and when it comes to funding then the government is solely responsible. Well done on good examples. I'm glad that a colleague of Suncana Glavak pointed out the example of the Međimurje County, fortunately there are such counties, but obviously we are not competitive when it comes to counties. Some eastern Croatian counties are doing the job that citizens have given them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87620	Replication response, distinguished representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87621	Thank you. I think we need to be realistic and say that these 20 and a few years ago, we've done very little for the Roma community. We can see exactly and say that we have done too little, and it is high time that we all get involved together and start worrying about it. Just enrolling in studies and finishing high school education, we see that it's a very small percentage and that's one of the reasons why I think a lot of things should be defined in the national strategy, from quotas to everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87622	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87623	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Kajtazi, you were talking about that the students of vocational schools, so three-year secondary schools, mostly from the Roma national minority, are almost impossible to cross them if they want to study and go to college, so they asked for speakers and public debates to allow them to do so. However, you need to know that opportunities and others, so also those members of the majority people and any of them, the transition to the university from the vocational school are impossible, you can't just walk through the law even though there are suggestions. I met in Slavonski Brod the other day an 18-year-old who said he'd go to hotel school, but he can't because he graduated from three-year-old high school, and he'd pass the difference in exams and enroll in a fourth-grade similar school he attended as a three-year-old school. And I don't know why it really makes it impossible for such young ambitious people to end up at the end of the college, if they weren't originally meant for parents and others, why couldn't they go to college later, regardless of the Roma, was a Croat, anyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87624	Replication response, distinguished representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87625	Thank you. In this very presentation, I have presented three years of schooling because I think that, in my own professional orientation, children are properly directed by members of the Roma national minority. Those who are excellent or very good then suggest that they enroll three - year - olds rather than four - year - olds, the problem is that enrollment in four - year - old education allows each child to enroll in the study. I agree with you when you pointed out that you should make it possible, which is why in my own presentation and presentation, adult education is due to the late maturation of members of the Roma national minority. They already mature in late years and seek enrolment in high schools and later enrollment in colleges. I hope that in some ways in these coming years we will just allow this free adult education to allow individuals to also finish their studies. And that's one of our proposals, too, for high school education to be mandatory for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87626	Thank you very much. I'd just like to point out that your term is that the Roma don't have a home state doesn't correspond to the legal state of things. The Roma don't have a national state, and the countries of origin do. Another thing I would also like to say is that we should continue to build on the fact that Roma are fully integrated into Croatian society, we are standing by Say [[/Intruder Keatazi: Can I only be excused for one sentence?]] Who isn't? [[/Intruder Keatazi: Right, I agree. But India hasn't yet admitted to being a member of the Roma national minority.]] No, no, no. [[Attack Keatazi: India.]] I didn't even say that. You misunderstood me. So no, everything's fine. The record went both mine and yours. I'm staying with it. We will continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Labourers – party of work and respected representative Nancy Tyreli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87627	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Parliament, dear ministers, Professor Budak, colleagues and colleagues. If we all agree on something, then I think it's a strategy of education, science and technology that we need, and I don't think we're thinking about it. If it had been brought before, it certainly was, but it wasn't, and we can say here that we are doing this strategy one step forward, and in that step I think there is only one thing that is necessary, and that is to objectively look at everything that is in this strategy. After all, that's our obligation. Is the strategy good? And yes and no. For those who did it, she's good, I guess they did the best they could. For those who did not participate in it and who always think that it could be better, she is bad. But that's always the way it is, we need to achieve some balance to satisfy as many people as this strategy concerns. And that's why I'm so glad to say that this strategy has been done by a lot of experts and that here's Professor. As a coordinator, Buddha himself had the will and desire to hear as many opinions as possible. It is this will that gives me the right to think that the intention to adopt this strategy is really good, the more the vast part of the suggestion is really embedded in it. We finally realized that it is possible to communicate, respect proposals and suggestions and work together to find the best solutions and optimal goals, and I would like this practice to really become something for us to manage in all other strategies. But have we really solved the problem? Several times today, it has been said that consensus is necessary in adopting this strategy. What scares me personally is that consensus has not been reached at some other levels, and these are the resolution ministries. In order to be optimistic about the realization of everything written in the consensus strategy, it had to happen and it didn't. The coordination of forward ministries is obviously still a cancer wound, and that is visible in this strategy. Is education really our priority as it says? If it has to be a priority for everyone and always, because we all have to agree that only educated thinking and skilled citizens can create better and change things for the better. In my view, it would be necessary to take part, for example, in the creation of this strategy, in the Ministry of Finance and to say, in some long-term projections, either at the end of the year, whether committed or installed in a strategy to the extent that an increase in the budget would possibly be allocated to the Ministry of Science, which, as such, will, in some long-term projection of power, really provide all of what this strategy represents as objectives. I also believe that this strategy and the Ministry of Economy should be involved. In particular, I think the Ministry of Regional Development should be involved. So these are some of the four ministries that I personally believe should have worked together on this strategy so that we have some certainty that the objectives that are in the strategy will indeed be realised. First and foremost, in order to be able to work a strategy, we need to know where to start. We did a real analysis of the current situation, detected problems, and then found solutions to raise young people in a good, quality way in the next generations and to say it productively. Have we taken into account all the facts that we have today, and one of the fundamental objectives of this strategy as it writes is free education and equal opportunity for all. Unfortunately, I stand by all those statements that colleagues and colleagues today have said that equal chances for education still do not everyone in Croatia. We're talking about books, we're talking about public transportation, and we're talking about hot meals in schools. And I agree when we say that it is the obligation of the local self-government unit, and that is exactly what is going on with my thinking that this strategy should have been attended by several ministries, resolution ministries that could guarantee that the strategy will be realised. We are now coming up with a situation where, for example, preschool education is funded by local self-government units, parallel to that, the Ministry of Finance changes the Income Tax Act, units of local self-government lose some funds. Those funds are definitely missing somewhere. They can also, as already is the fact that a large number of municipalities fail to meet their needs for preschool child accommodation in kindergartens, the municipality remains either a city without money, and on the other hand, in the strategy of objectives and implementing actors and the strategy we still have units of local self-government that cannot in any way affect how much money they will receive or will not get. So that's something we have to plan in a quality way, in a good way, and that's the questions we can give answers to. The integration of education and science with the economy which is at the heart of a whole series of measures proposed by the strategy is part of wider neoliberal tendencies. Why might that bonding be controversial? The framework for discussion on the other side of the predominant point of view that education comes down to the acquisition of skills and understands exclusively as the investment of individuals in their future incomes while scientific research is valued in view of the potential of use in the economy in the most creative variant is only based on technologically understood innovations. That's what the strategy says. Such a reductionist-economic understanding of the educational and scientific research process is essentially abolished by any debate on social well-being unless, under the latter, the maximumisation of private profits on the background of growing and social inequalities is understood. We believe that the system of higher education and science, which is underfunded, primarily focused on meeting the needs of the labour market whatever and whatever the needs of the labour market are, where the message that some areas of science are more important than others, where the responsibility for the success of the system is not divided between the involved actors, where academic workers are forced to spend a significant part of their time in large and abundant administrative activities that are meant by themselves, a system which, as such unfortunately, is still extremely bureaucratic, we cannot say that it is motivated. The mission of the Croatian scientific system is to improve the overall global knowledge fund and contribute to the improvement of Croatian society and, above all, to the economy, it is again in the strategy. The values associated with the role of science and higher education in the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology are appropriate in some places. For example, the aim of public universities and public scientific institutes is to create new scientific, social, cultural and economic value by advocating an increase in the quality of Croatia's higher education system with a view to achieving student competence for creative professional work and active action in a democratic society, a positive impact on society as a whole, promoting economic development and personal priorities. The competitiveness of the Croatian economy in the European and global frameworks should be launched by study programmes which will be the basis for diversified economic development. If the strategy were to cultivate the principle of higher education and science for society and not for the market, the contribution of science and higher education to economic development would be less highlighted. Of course, under this, I do not think that this should be thrown out, or removed from the context of the strategy as such, but, for example, the word in particular economy should not be used because this review primarily refers to all areas of science as it stands in the strategy. Well, for example, do you, for example? research in physics always contribute exclusively to economic development? So we have a strategy that we have reduced to finding a solution to satisfy the labour market, we come up with the next paradox where one side of the strategy states that we live in an unpredictable world. So, the challenges that today are difficult or impossible to predict are in the globalised world, thanks to the development and new technologies, increasingly faster and difficult to predict, while we are proposing, on the other hand, in this strategy, the alignment of the registration quotas with the current labour market. So we are aware that everything is changing very quickly, and it is obvious that we have not planned or can't project what these changes will be like. The second paradox is spatial because Croatia's EU integration certainly means harmonising registration quotas with the European labour market while the strategy suggests compliance with the national labour market. In one part, then, we strive to make quality, capable citizens who will be able to meet market challenges with their competences, skills and skills. On the other hand, we are not considering the circumstances currently in these markets and this is perhaps the most that we need to worry about at this point and say the strategy is good, it is good that we have brought it, and as one of our former ministers said, I agree with this is a framework in which we still have no pictures, but a vision, a mission, the goal of something should also have a concrete picture in our head to know where we want to go, and the strategy is just a tool to get to that goal. I hope that this strategy will, first of all, be a new normative framework for the qualification of activities because it is necessary from all of what we have heard and visible today that we are disproportionate or at a great stage of education and the needs of the labour market itself, and that we need to coordinate this urgently. The large commitment and role of units of local and regional self-government is not only about finding money but also about making such strategies, the education strategy in a way that education is in line with needs, but also with development programmes and projects that certain counties intend to implement. Teachers, teachers, teachers must in any case be motivated, they must have the motivation for all of what the strategy represents in its objectives, setting before them a quality reward for effort and work that they must do to have citizens ready to respond to all the challenges ahead of them. Labourists are in favour of this strategy anyway. Once again, we commend and thank both the correspondence and the openness to get as many proposals and good suggestions into the strategy as possible, and this part really gives me the right to think that the strategy is made in good faith. And what we have already said several times today, I think the strategy is the living tissue that we need to change, which we need to coordinate with the opportunities and changes that are happening to us especially to changes in the labour market. And somehow I think that no matter what consensus is about many issues that have remained open about whether we will manage to realise such an extremely demanding strategy remains open, that we here in the Parliament should reach a consensus in this part of the only question whether or not we need this strategy right now. I think we need it as such, and then after that with laws and with all the other acts that come into the parliamentary procedure again, we explain realistically and realistically why something is good or not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87628	Thank you, too, dear colleague. Now we have a set of replicas. The first replica and respected representative Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87629	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Tyrelli, I am glad that your club accepts and supports the adoption of this strategy, and I am sorry that some other clubs that, just like you, could have proposed and proposed some changes that are included in this strategy, do not want to accept, it is, in my opinion, politics. But I have to correct you in one sentence at the beginning that you said, I guess you just made a little bit of a mistake here when you said that for those who worked it, thinking of the strategy is the good one, and for those who didn't do it, it's the bad one. I guess that's a mistake, because I don't think you think everyone who hasn't done the strategy thinks she's bad. In fact, a lot of people here didn't really take part in a real strategy, so they don't think she's bad. As regards the participation of the ministry in the creation of a strategy, you can probably check with those people who have indeed participated in all these months and months in the development of the strategy, that the ministries have been very involved in the development of this strategy, as well as the units of local self-government which, first of all, were able to participate in the public debate. But my opinion is that all the ministries you mentioned above should take part in the implementation of this strategy. Because if this Parliament brings this strategy, then we're in front of those ministries, we've given them simple assignments. These tasks will of course not be completed in one year. All the time we've been saying that strategy is a document that's going to apply to a whole bunch of years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87630	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87631	I thank the President of the Parliament. Well, I'll go somewhere from the end of your line. So, the request, our demand as it should be, is that the strategy explicitly states that science and education are public goods, that the strategy commits itself to a certain percentage of the annual budgetary increase for science and education, and that strict legal regulation of the relations of private and public-science and higher education institutions and employees is introduced. If it were in the strategy, if there was a decided obligation of someone to isolate something, then I could be sure that the Resort Ministries are good and good at negotiating and negotiating all this about the strategy, and then I and the vast majority of us here could be a peaceful word with the relief this strategy is good, it's enforceable, it's life, it's real, we'll all work together to realize everything through action plans that stands in this strategy. And that in 10 or 20 years, we're actually going to achieve the goal that we're setting for ourselves right now. As for the beginnings where I said that some are satisfied and some are not satisfied, I have always said so, so we always have those who do not participate in anything but they know best what they need and, in general, it is you who do not always participate in the biggest critics for something that I underline, I believe, that this strategy is indeed in good interest because of the way the public debate was conducted and because of the way communication on behalf of the promoters and all the others who were interested in their ideas being in and implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87632	Dear Vice President of the House Željko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87633	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Tyrelli, as usual I agree with a lot of what you say, but I was asked to actually report what you said about joining the EU. It just seems to me that Croatia, by entering the EU, should have highlighted something that is not in this strategy, which is the need to preserve national identity, integrity, especially the importance of preserving and treating Croatian language and culture, given the globalisation processes that are necessarily happening, and especially by entering Croatia into the EU. How important it is to treat Croatian language and culture as an important part of the educational values and priorities best says a small detail of this current strategy, so it is not linguistically arranged because after it is very clear in linguistic science that it is right to say the curicula rather than the curricula it uses systematically this term curricula. Especially because the language allies are listed as the director of the Institute of Croatian Language and Linguistics Zagreb and the scientific advisor at the Institute when the Institute does not recommend in any of its publications the word curiculum, but rather the contrary points out that in Croatian standard language the expression is unacceptable. And now we come to a bizarre situation that in something that should highlight the need of Croatian language, Croatian culture, etc. is used an expression that is contrary to what the linguists recommend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87634	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli. Let's hear what a curricula is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87635	I thank the President of the Parliament. I'm glad we're getting along in one big part. I mentioned the EU in that context of the labour market. So this strategy also mentions flexibility, and it is said that the labour market is demanding and that education must be adapted to that labour market, so it would be extremely important and good that we not only stop within the borders of our Croatia but also do educational programmes in a way that will satisfy the very European market in the sense that we open space to our scientists, students and all those who want to participate in the development of the economy in an even better way, not only here but also beyond the borders. Unfortunately, we have now obviously had education and educated people with the greatest or most regrets for the only address and that is the Employment Service which I personally think is not good. We need to approach more serious planning for longer-term planning and honestly and truly respond to the challenges. And as much as we said today that this strategy is extensive, we are all aware that it could be even more extensive in that part and that there would be a very, very many fields in which we should find the answer and which we might be able to set as some kind of long-term goals when it comes to science and education.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87636	Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87637	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleagues, more things in your presentation have moved me to the replica, but first of all, let me express my satisfaction that you are in the Labour Club aware that one of these important documents requires political consensus and that you are for this and that you are for constructive discussion. Because if we're going to talk about language purism and if we're going to talk about procedural pins, I don't think that's going to get us anywhere. You need to talk about the core of matter and that's exactly what you've been doing. As far as suggestions are concerned, I've been communicating with strategy makers myself. I would also estimate it more than satisfactory, even if we could set it as an example to others, but you also said most of the suggestions. Since the strategy came to the Assembly level, all suggestions that had a head and tail, and had everything and incorporated into the text of the strategy, or through amendments, will be. And I think it's a step towards consensus, precisely that everyone could say anything constructively they wanted, or what was constructive to fit into the strategy. You've talked a lot about the labour market and what our education system offers the labour market and I think you're on a good track here, and I would like to point out once again that the autonomy of institutions that are supposed to be higher under the strategy because institutions are much more agile than the large tromium system that we've witnessed is much more difficult to adapt to the situation on the market. So let's say we don't have any high-school IT professions that are on an extremely high level, so you can't formally educate yourself for that profession, but you can certainly work on the market if you know how to do that job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87638	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87639	Thank you, Mr. President. So here we at the Labour Club are always aware of the importance of each single document and I am trying to at least personally think that I am so objectively responding to the challenges of every document that is right in front of us in order to make it better for everyone because this strategy neither brings it nor is it a SDP strategy, or HDZ, or the Labourist, or I don't know who, this is our strategy and it will concern every single one of our children no matter where his parents are. And that's why I find the consensus particularly important in these matters. And when you talk about the autonomy of institutions, especially these high-school programmes, I think I have also mentioned how important it is to be the unit of regional self-government, especially the county, which should then be linked to this strategy, of course some of its medium-term or long-term development plans, investments and everything that the county must do in order to just respect this particular autonomy of individual universities, universities that would then have adequate training programmes for its citizens, that these citizens remain still in that county so that they do not go outside of that county, that they meet the needs of their own citizens, but also the need in the labour market which, at that point and only in such way, could truly be of quality. We come to a situation where the state determines its rules, and then lower levels are very difficult or almost by no means adapted in these rules, and that's our problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87640	Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87641	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mrs. Tyreli, I only wanted to look back once more, although my colleague Tomic spoke about whether the other ministries were involved in the creation of the Strategy, so of course they were, very actively with numerous remarks, and it was particularly important that the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Ministry of Defence and Entrepreneurship was involved. In fact, in parallel with this Strategy, the Industrial Strategy, Innovation Industry, Smart Specialization Industry and the only meaning of such strategies was that there is coordination between this because if we know what it says in the Industrial Strategy and on what basis it is meant to ensure both growth, employment and new jobs then and the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology must finally be in line with such a strategy and for the first time in 23 years of history and education and the Croatian economy. A guarantee that the Strategy will be implemented, because it is much more difficult than to write is an implementing body that will also be established and an implementing body that will represent all ministries that are key to ensuring the link between education, the economy, society as a whole and of course the links between science, research and innovation that are a prerequisite for the competitive advantages of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87642	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87643	Thank you. My dear colleague, I think that the only implementing body is the budget and the laws when we talk about this strategy. So these are two implementing bodies, all of which depend but well. I really hope that there was a quality conversation in that coordination of resolution ministries, and here we have the Industrial Strategy in a few days ahead of us which I personally read a little bit, I haven't entered any details. However, we already have some gaps in this strategy and in that strategy not to list any further strategies. It's necessary, it's really necessary that we all coordinate how and how and what we're going to do because if we don't, it's not going to be good, but I think that our biggest problem right now is the budget. We've been relying on these highly educated people all the time, and here's a fellow I think before he talked about, so a large percentage of the uneducated on, so not highly educated at the Employment Service, we're also missing a certain step here. We won't be able to, and we won't always be able to hire only highly educated people. So we need to have a whole set of ideas, a whole set of plans, long-term, medium-term and short-term plans to compare them, so that we can coordinate them, so that we can ultimately be sure that we will achieve the set goal. Otherwise, we lose a lot of energy on all fronts, we lose resources, and the goal is still not in what size it should be or what we expect it to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87644	Honorable representative Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87645	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Tyrelli, I think you've really asked the right question about the consensus and who's been working on this strategy. We heard from the response that certain ministries were working, but your question, that is to say, the consensus request, referred in another way as it was said at the beginning of this debate this morning there is no development strategy from which this strategy can then be implemented. Let me make things simple. The strategy itself says it literally stands out for a higher education of 0.73 GDP and says it disables any serious reform of the high system. To sharpen this issue is then the question of whether this strategy is a government strategy or whether it is a strategy of the ministry and those who prepared it. If the government's strategy is then the question is why there is no age-by-year how these allocations will grow by 2020, then that would mean, obliging both the government and all ministries to realise this strategy. It may occur to us that the Government will be the first to destroy that Strategy. Because when we change this budget, there is no money, it has to be saved, it has to be reduced, etc. If so, then this strategy should start to be realised either by some indicator or by when GDP will start to grow or by some time. I am so afraid that it will be one strategy developed by a certain group of people in good faith with all those wishes that stand but will not have a real framework under which this strategy could be realised.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87646	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87647	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, Professor, that we're on the same track and back to and back to the only implementing body of this truly strategy, I'm afraid it's now a budget. So it's all about that. And with respect that the Strategy is good, that the intentions are good, that the initiative is good, that it wants to do in school everything that is in school, in science, actually at this point, we always need to be left with that skeptic, whether it's really going to be realized because if not then we're going to fail the exam again, we have another new strategy that unfortunately didn't achieve its goal and then all those goals in it remain just a dead letter on paper, which I don't think would be good. The government's obligation in any case should be to pay particular attention to higher education and science and that there is always some money to be found, because it is only a guarantee of our long-term success. We have heard in today's debates several times already that there are money on certain items, and we always go back to the fundamental question of what is now a priority for us and do we really have those about 4.5 priority goals to go towards, and then on those 5 goals or those 5 priorities we build or upgrade everything else we need. And I'm afraid that you're right when you say development strategies are gone, and then normally there's communication noises and eventually the woods are big in the realisations, and we have a strategy, but our implementation is still nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87648	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87649	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Tyrelli, you mentioned the co-ordination of the ministries. I agree, I think that in the work itself, that is, in the final proposal of the strategy, some things could especially be done when it comes to coordination being crushed to the end. I especially point out this in that part of the strategy relating to education and education for students with difficulties. I don't think anyone's mentioned that before. It is said here that there is a need to diverge, i.e. to the end, because the students with development difficulties are concerned by three ministries: the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Policy, etc., and the deadline for disseminating it is 2014, 2015, so that's now. And in my opinion, the strategy should have already been done, especially in terms of students who are and the goal of the strategy that I welcome is to school, to qualify for professions and to be able to hire. However, I remind you of a recent example that we've all probably all been looking at, a young man with Down syndrome who studied for a chef which is great, so the whole family took part in it, but he got fired, there's no place to work anymore. So just for children, for students, for young people with developmental difficulties, we need to be particularly sensitive and I think there needs to be a strategy to the end of an additional..., so to the end, to the very end, an additional grind. Of course, this involves the financial framework, which means the solution finally in the strategy question, for example, personal assistants. We have seen the problems we had at the beginning of this school year, so these are the answers to the questions that I think should already be embedded in the strategy because I repeat, for some of these measures, the deadline is 2014 which is practically over, in 2015 which is also practically done in terms of budgeting and developing criteria and further steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87650	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87651	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Kosor, I agree when you talk about the problem of students with developmental difficulties. I'd say it figuratively now, at this point we have a picture but we don't have a frame, so that's it. You mentioned, we know what we need, what we want, what we want, we even have a deadline in 2004, 2015, but we don't know whether we're going to make it real or not because here every day we're witnessing that and you mentioned here the Ministry of Science, the Ministry of Social Policy and the Ministry of Health, but I still haven't heard that the Ministry of Finance worked there. So we talk about one single problem all the time, and that's not enough money to realize everything we want and to realize everything we think we need to accomplish. So at one point we pass a law where we will co-finance assistants who will help these children with developmental difficulties precisely because they can function, so that they can be educated, so that they can acquire certain skills, competences and skills, and as such, so that as useful members of society they can participate in the labour market, and then we say no money, and we suddenly end the assistants, we put these children back on the burden of parents and then we say the same opportunities for everyone. And that's my beginning of the story where I keep saying not all the same opportunities, not all of them on the same occasions, a large number of our citizens are still in great trouble and with all due respect to the good intentions of this strategy, I say that this strategy will, in part, discriminate against something precisely because of these things and that it will not be equally feasible for all those to whom it applies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87652	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President Milorad Batinic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87653	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, my colleague Tyrelli, when you spoke about connecting the Education Strategy with the Industrial Strategy, I felt a certain critical note there. Whether she's justified or not, I think she's absolutely not because I don't think the Education Strategy can be brought in unless there's a foundation for which products are produced I'm going to simplify the staff, who they're being trained for. Namely, there are certain positive experiences that have been brought to life in certain environments before this strategy was adopted, targeted human resources training on the initiative of the county and local authorities for the needs of the domicile economy. When the Industrial Strategy was adopted now, of course not yet came to this respected home, the Committee passed, a more or less complete economy agreed that it was an extremely good and quality foundation for the development of industry. So I don't see why they'd criticise it. Like any Education Strategy, the Industrial Strategy is a dynamic document which is of course renewed in view of the new circumstances of the complete economy in terms of the markets and also the link to health. What is necessary and what must be our goal, it is a strong economy. By the logic of things, a strong economy, a stronger state budget and, of course, more money for education and other social activities. What I advocate, not only myself but also the HNS club, is primarily when we talk about the economy, the socially responsible business of economic operators. You like to use certain expressions and stick them to certain political options, I definitely deny. You're wrong, socially responsible business. Because exactly the greatest interest is for economic operators to have a quality fit with which they can achieve even better results.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87654	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87655	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, so here is how many strategies, an industrial strategy related to this strategy we will see, I hope, by the next year, when we see which registration quotas are and which directions are open and whether the directions in secondary schools and colleges are open on the basis of an industrial strategy or whether they are still as they were opened on the basis of the qualifications of people working in primary, secondary and higher education. When you talk about the economy, you come from Varazdin County, I come from Istria County. What's wrong with what I've said to either one of us? I guess we don't have a problem with that, and we can just say most of the commendable things that are happening in our counties. However, the fact is that all counties are not equally developed and that the strategy equally applies to everyone in the Republic of Croatia and therefore I have taken the right to comment in part that in certain parts of this strategy, it will indeed cause certain problems. County and local authorities are certainly the most responsible to run and do some kind of policy. But I repeat, I still believe that neither the county, nor much of the local authorities are willing to respond to the challenges, and I fear, in particular, the challenges that this extremely large strategy puts before them and a demanding strategy in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87656	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87657	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Tyrelli, I agree with your debate in most cases. Yes, and you, in reality, and through your debate, have touched a lot of unexplained questions and a lot of dilemmas. One of the strategies is written to satisfy the labour market. Yes, but for which labour market, when we do not have a labour market in Croatia today, unfortunately, and we do not have it because this government is neither, there is not one strategy that it has actually implemented to the end. I don't know, let's say industrial development strategy, agriculture strategy, borrowing strategy, no employment strategy. So there's no foundation. And indeed, I must say in all respects that I need the strategy as you said, and therefore one majority of us MPs but also believe and the Croatian public is saying that these are beautiful desires. And when we see in reality that, who the national body is coordinating in reality. Prime Minister, I just said there's nothing, no strategy he's made, nothing that would give us the basis for this to live. Maybe 20 years from now that, maybe 10 years from now, five years from now, when this government changes, when the conditions are met. Yeah, sure. But there should be conditions for something. That's what we talk about when we talk about a set of good wishes. 'Cause don't laugh, pal, it's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87658	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87659	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, comrade twilight, for the replica. Well, here's the deal, so we finally agree. What scares me the most personally is that we know how to write a strategy, we know how to write a law well, but then we don't have enough capacity, we don't have the resources to do everything we've written and put it into action, that's that after a while we say here by this strategy we have these results and we need to do that, that and that. One part of this replica of yours, so it refers to that particular labour market. So we've been talking about lifelong education here. But the question is, and that's the coordination that I'm missing in all of this. Take, for example, an entrepreneur who wants to adopt new technologies, have a productive worker, a working worker. Let us not forget that this entrepreneur invests hundreds of thousands of euros in certain machines so that he can do something at all, and he is the only and primary goal of making that worker more professional, competent enough to do as much on that machine as possible, thus making it as productive and normal as possible not to damage the property that the entrepreneur has invested in all of this. But the question arises in which way and whether all entrepreneurs at this time will be able to co-finance their employees' lifelong education in terms of being as productive as possible, as competent as possible, as best as possible. So, to adopt as many skills as possible so that he can ultimately be more competitive because in as little time as possible, he should produce as much and as normal a quality as possible. Here we need to think about those tax incentives for the entrepreneur in the sense that we can then enable him through certain incentives to educate those workers who will then be able to be educated for the rest of their lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87660	Thank you very much. From the HDSSB's club, respected representative Boro Grubisic, who comes from the HDZ bench. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87661	I got a little help. Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here you thought I was for an individual debate, but there's still a club called the HDSSB. What to say about this strategy except that it really is one I would say would declare beautiful desires in education, science and technology. Why do I say the declaration of good wishes when it is 190 or 200, 189 pages on which everything is explained, all the curiculas as Croatia says, not curiculas, from preschool, school, high school and higher education and lifelong learning. And then when all of this is so nice in the strategy it writes what I would immediately sign because this is the first time in 23 years of the existence of an independent and independent Croatian state we bring in the strategy of education, science and technology, and immediately in the second reading as your predecessor says here today, it would be even better. So that the Croatian Parliament does not have the opportunity but only today to discuss this strategy so I guess that's why the debate has stalled. And why do I say that, the material that has 190 pages? Well, because it is the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture submitted amendments to the proposal of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy. And Amendment No. 3. says, it is clear that on a proposal from the Government, it is, therefore, in the entire text of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy, in all the measures in which the deadline is prescribed, the deadline and numbers marking the years, i.e. the text following the two-point to the word indicators, shall be deleted. So, strategy without deadline. Like agriculture, a prison without a deadline in the clear sky. When will this strategy be achieved if there are no deadlines for implementation of the strategy? When? We're either writing a strategy for future generations or for some future executioners of this strategy? Why are we doing this today, and we spend all day discussing this strategy and there are no deadlines and what have we actually done? When we adopt it and when, here I agree that the material is good, here, but the deadlines are gone. There is no obligation if there are no deadlines, there is no obligation to that strategy or to implement that strategy. When I read all of this, especially in the opening part, I think that one of our politicians who was born in the 19th century did, and in 1904 he founded a Croatian peasant party already developed a strategy that we could say to expand and change, which he said in connection with the number of highly educated people in Croatia. Someone says there's up to 10%, come on, there's a number somewhere. What is a people without intelligence, so no people who are intelligence? It's bread without salt and it's a bell without a brother. We know what a bat is. This strategy has already been said in 1904. And what else did he say about Croatian schools that educate Croatian children? He said Croatian schools should not be just educational institutions but, above all, an educational institution where they will learn Croatian citizenship. So there is also the Croatian language and Croatian culture. ... Take it easy, take it easy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You have a replica, so lift up, and don't complain to me like this. Next, who's going to implement the strategy? Minister? In a year? He won't, he can't. We? Going to second term in 2015? Other people will come, they won't. The workers, my teacher friend who has nine years of work experience and has 5000 kuna salary, so he graduated from the Faculty of Teachers, has less salary than a nurse with 2 years of work experience. Is that humiliating to those people? There's 75 lips per mile to go to school or to go on a bike, and it's 15 km to school. If you were to take the bus, then you'd have to bring and show the school principal a bus ticket that day, as a tramway for me to get to work. He can't take his car and write a bus. It's the work of the former minister, Mr. Sailor. It's not your work. They're humiliated and they want to come out, a lot of them. Although they are enthusiastic, even though they are at school because they love these children, our children but are humiliated, discredited. Not just these material things. See how a union dispute is being held and although not unions are exclusively a representative or a representative of the pardons of all those who work in school. Teachers, nine semesters, 4.5 years ago, I asked Minister Jovanovic why they were not recognized, so you responded or Mr. Sail Master of the profession did they get it eventually, they were admitted. I asked why there's no information as a mandatory class in elementary schools when we live in an information age. I also asked Mr. Jovanovic and Mr. Sailor, if you remember. You answered my question, but it stays the same, it doesn't. Most likely, another IT teacher should be employed at each school and there is no money for that. Well, there's no money when the budget for the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology is constantly falling. And how are we going to implement the strategy, what are we going to implement the strategy? What are we talking about here? As someone says everything depends on the budget, it is easy for us to pass laws according to strategy, it is not a problem, we are all for it, we are all for the better to finally make Croatia go forward through silicon as one minister said, but we went to Silicon Valley, and we are not subject to information in elementary schools. So wait till we do it? Furthermore, I have been told about the strategy and poverty at our door for a long time, and we have passed the door, not to knock but to step well into our Croatian home. The strategy of adopting the strategy as an alibi as someone said here, so as not to reduce the resources of the Ministry of Education and anything further to cut it down, it does not drink water. No matter how much we bring this strategy, we're going to tell you how much they're on board, we're coming from a strategy that needs so much, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And the more you cut, Mr. Minister, the more you have nothing to cut, there's nothing left to cut in this ministry. It's not a demagogy to tell you that I'm taking advantage of you because I'm not the one who controls especially this government, but there's nothing to cut. From the teacher's pay cut, you will have a terrible outflow, wherever anyone can go from education because people not only have small wages, but they have no hope for progress. What a teacher will accomplish more in his profession than he can become headmaster is the maximum he can become. Right? What could he be? Teacher for 40 years and done. He's got nowhere to go. I as a doctor can advance, I can become a primarius, I can continue to become a doctor and he can't progress, he stays a teacher forever. Although he needs lifelong learning to meet the needs of the new era and the needs of the children he is learning. However, he remains on his 5.6,000 tops of his head and 75 lips for mileage when he uses his car to get to school. I guess you expect him to ride a bike or a rickshaw to be respected, and there's a rickshaw I saw on TV the other day. And now he says like this, everyone has to have equal opportunities. Let's start from preschool. France that had Napoleon's wars, then World War I, then World War II, where a large number of the mainly male population of the fertilized age suffered what did it do? It has enabled its French children from mangers and kindergartens absolutely free of charge in every place. What did Croatia do? 55% of Croatian preschool children attend kindergarten and 45% attend never but have a grandmother service. When will we achieve this possibility to give our parents the possibility of kindergarten in Grizić, Klokočevik, Vrovina and I do not know where in Slavonia, ever. I don't know, maybe, God forbid it's never gonna be. Books, free textbooks, normal children, my twin grandchildren are waiting for a free textbook at their school on September 1st when they come to school, but they're not waiting for anyone in Slavonski. Now, thank God that Mr. Dinko Buric in Belisto has reduced the costs of the City of Belišč to 20% of the costs prescribed, so he has succeeded for the children, it is not a big city, so I guess I don't even know how many children, but good and it's a great work. Yes, and in a town in Slavonia someone did something to have children free textbooks. The Ship-Posavia County gentlemen, despite these 75% of the state's allocation to transport students, barely raises that 25% for the transport of students. You know how much Mr. Stefanek is looking for, prays and godfathers, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He owes auto transport, there's all kinds of stuff going on, and there's lots and lots of concessions. A warm meal, it's futurism, whatever warm meal and living room in schools. Well, the kids are still going on two shifts to school, three shifts in Pokkalje, Glogovica, Podovnije. What we're talking about, strategy. I wish it could be implemented immediately, to draw up measures and ask the Minister of Finance for implementation. And what are you going to say, Mr. Sailor, cut. So, if there are no deadlines, there is no obligation, there is no implementation of the strategy because they do not oblige anyone to implement this strategy. We have a clear and loud amendment number three. The Education Committee that Croatia is ruling, through which the Croatian government intervened in the absence of deadlines, and what. About high education in favour of the economy and in favour of the market economy, Mrs Tyrelli said, I won't. It is exactly as he said, he noted Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament that with a certain criticism he spoke about, but there are also sciences that we cannot deny and will never be connected to the market economy, starting with philosophy and I don't know what, what kind of science that kind of economy is going to have to do with it. We can do this, the Faculty of Engineering in Slavonski Brod, if Djuro Djakovic does not go into bankruptcy, connects with Djur Djakovic, but Djuro Djakovic goes into bankruptcy as well as everyone here knows it. So, without this economy and without the rise of GDP and without the exit of any kind, there is no sign of an exit from the crisis of this strategy. I find 200 names at the beginning of this text, starting from national, in 27 bodies, national coordination body, operational body, coordinators of work on strategy, working groups, etc. And among them I have seen great names, great knowers and acquaintances of this matter. And that's why I said I'm signing this text right now, but that this strategy is especially after this one where there are no deadlines, inconclusive. It's quite clear, it's completely certain. It's one pamphlet to show how we have an idea, etc. First idea, strategy. In BiH for 4 years, basic schools are conducted, 9th grade has a primary school, it is minus 1, so since 6th year, children go to school, and not since 7th grade, and it is already first grade and it is a very failure model. He's shown himself and he's already proven very unsuccessful.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87662	Thank you very much. I have some questions, but we'll do it with coffee related to Silicon Valley and Silicon Valley. I want to know what you're more interested in. We've got a dozen replicas, so you'll have a chance to answer everything. Let's go in order, honourable representative Zeljko Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87663	Thank you, Mr. President. Coliga Grubišić you in one very nice way are trying to make what is our goal, to make the system of education and science better and better quality. However, often in this approach, you start from the wrong premises, and then it is either a conversation or a conclusion to say Croatian, completely guilty. So if we look at what a strategy is, the strategy is the way from where we are now to where we want to get into the rules it's a better place. Then I don't know why it's bad if I say that strategy and a list of good wishes, a list of good wishes for our system of education, science, technology to be better and better quality. But this fundamental observation that you have said that there are no deadlines is, in fact, one logical conclusion created on the basis of recommendations from the European Commission, and, for example, the Anti-Corruption Strategy has been taken. You have also been in the Parliament's past term and, if you know so well, the Parliament has adopted a strategy against corruption which was not time-limits, but on the basis of this and the government's strategy has also written an Action Plan with the Anti-Corruption Strategy, which has been assessed by the European Commission as a great model. And in fact, this is exactly the kind of quality strategy and action plan that we have managed to close chapter 23, which is why it is proposed to go in that order in the strategy of education, science and technology. The strategy will be adopted by the Parliament, and then within a month, the Croatian government will adopt an action plan to implement a strategy in which there will be holders, deadlines, funds, so all that is needed to bring the strategy into practice. And all of this will be followed by an implementing body that will have the task of regularly monitoring how all those who have received the mandate by a certain deadline implement the strategy in reality. And that is why it is going in this way both in my opinion and in the opinion of the European Commission, consultants that is a good way to get to what we want the strategy to live in practice. Because research in the world has shown 70% of strategies fail due to inefficient implementation. I believe that this way through the strategy, action plan and implementing body that will follow the established assumption that this strategy really has [[Employee: Thank you, colleague Jovanovic, time is up.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87664	We have an answer, colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87665	That there's one song about Zdenka Vukkovic's old singer's wishes I won't quote that song even though I can sing it. But when we talk about the Industrial Development Strategy that was brought here, you brought it here and then you involved agriculture, and I remember that agriculture was kicked out of the Industrial Development Strategy, so agriculture was included as well as some secondary branch, and in Slavonia it was primary, it was brought by 2020. So that's why we didn't drag the industrial development strategy into an endless blue path, so you're interpreting it, so this is a strategy for an endless journey. And you say this way that you're going to come up with an action plan that we're going to consider here at the Parliament, and Europe has already approved. Wait, did you deliver it to Europe first or was it some other action plan, I don't know. If this strategy came today and based on it you're making an action plan for Europe to know now and it rated you with an excellent... assessment, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87666	Next replica of Ada Damian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87667	Thank you, Vice President. I reacted to my colleague Boro's first ball in sports like this on the first sentence when you said the strategy was a declaration of good wishes. If you'd said good wishes, I'd still adopt it, but beauty is something that's so fleeting, and goodness is something that lasts for a long time, so I'd agree with you anyway. And I came forward as an educational worker who's been in class for no day since '76, and you count how many and I've been through a lot of these reforms and promises from Shuvar to Bologna, and I don't know how long China might get with all these reforms. Now it's the first time you've seen a strategy, you finally see a change, and you can see the way we want to and the way we want to do it. What I agree with is your statement that teachers were underpaid, the truth is, and that goes on 40 years ago because here's an example of why I'm going to say when I started working my first salary was 420 thousand then, and the cleaning lady in one bank was 440. Unfortunately, therefore, the rule still applies, not to what you do but to where you work, but the intensity is ours to change it and no matter where a man works to live worthy of his work. And this strategy is welcome, and how lucky it is to be applied immediately from tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87668	The answer of my colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87669	Thank you very much. My esteemed colleague and I got a job in '76, and now I'm 38 years old, I'm a surgeon, as a doctor. So I had a much higher salary and I was always sorry for people who ended up also four or five years of college had two or three or four times my salary. I told you, the nurse has a nurse who works, she finished her internship having a higher salary than a teacher who's nine, ten years old. And my sister, here's what I'm going to say in person who's 40 years old working in the O.R. has 9,000 kuna salaries as two teachers together almost, with duty clear, shifts, shift work, night work etc.. So the fact that your intensities are such is the best information says let your colleague and you yourself know how slowly your last year, two days, as quietly as Bosnia's paws fall and your wages fall. And you know it well. That's what my teachers are complaining about. And you, if you won't admit it, it's your business.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87670	Thank you. Next replica Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87671	Thank you, Vice President. You said fellow Grubisic that MPs could not participate in this debate, now they will say something, that is. Let me remind you that the public debate on this document has been going on for over a year. I'll remind you also that you've had the opportunity to be interested in talking to a colleague of Buddha in the moments when he was visiting and walking around clubs and asking for their opinion, so I guess he was at your club and you could talk about it, I don't know why you're forgetting that. As for the action plan to be adopted within 30 days, this has already been said to you by my colleague Jovanovic, so I will not supplement it, I will just remind you of two more things. First thing, you said there was no progress in education, that's not true. Professor, the teacher can get mentor status and counseling status. These are three steps but I will fully agree with you to lag behind the salaries of others in the public sector and that needs to be corrected in time. I think that this strategy, which in some ways speaks clearly about improving the teacher's material position, will contribute to that. What I would leave for the end is your statement that educational institutions should be conducted in Croatia by Croatian citizenship, so I ask you why you were against civic education as a party? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87672	Reply Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87673	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomic, because it wasn't Croatian civic education, it was just civil education. First of all, right now. You try to replace harder, so I have made it clear and loud that it is a Croatian citizen's education with an emphasis on Croatian language, Croatian culture, Croatian tradition, so if you want me to tell you the excursions going to Barcelona to go to Croatian battlefields, sites and shrines if necessary, that is Croatian civic education. As for the public debate, the public debate is a public debate and the parliamentary debate is a parliamentary debate. And here are the people who decide with their own hands, with their voices on all this material. The public debate doesn't decide, it makes proposals, debates, debates and whatever you want. But here in the Croatian Parliament it is therefore the House, the highest House to be discussed on this strategy. Don't mix pears and apples. The Parliament is a Parliament and public debate is a part of whoever it is. And may Mr. Budak himself say whether he was at our club or not at our club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87674	Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87675	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Grubisic and your club as well as some clubs have previously pointed out the fact that the strategy is in a second reading all of a sudden that we don't have a chance to make amendments to it or anything like that. I'll see, that's what my colleague Tomic also mentioned when the Strategy came to the Croatian Parliament in the procedure I wasn't a member of the resolution board but I was coming to him and giving suggestions because I was interested, it could have been every one of us here. That's the first thing. Another thing, when we discussed some other strategies, let's say the entrepreneurship development strategy didn't bother anyone at the time that there was no reading. According to our Rules of Procedure, only legal proposals come in two readings, reports and other documents adopted by the Parliament. So I don't understand that remark. A list of good wishes when you say it's like a colleague Ada said beauty's passing good wishes are something else. But we're very signifying that we all agree we need a strategy, we all agree we need changes but we're also quick to condemn, we're also trying to strategy and say that's already a stillborn baby, that's how you said a list of beautiful failed desires. Strategy...... That's what you said. I'm literally quoting. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the strategy isn't just about money, because you make sure that the thing is just money in that world no one would work, there are other colleagues who worked in the field and we all do it with our hearts, that's what I'm telling you. A different organisation of education is just a matter of legal and other bases. And in the end, you say you point out, say, Belisce as an example of good practice. I would point out to you the Osijek-Baranja County as an example of bad practice where you are also in power to... in the County Assembly of amendments of SDP and HNS, that the county instead of 5% co-finances cross-city transportation of students with 10% or at least 7% and the mayor refuses and says there is no money but money to finance whatever is in the reserve. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So much for your concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87676	The answer of my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87677	Thank you very much. My colleague Hajdukovic, you're making me laugh. No, goodness doesn't rule out beauty or vice versa. So, I mean, I don't know what you're getting at on the list of good wishes or good wishes. Well, we can even be synonym sometimes, but we don't want to talk about it. I'm talking about the fact that there was talk here and that I was talking about transportation... You're caught on the ride so... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You yourself know that 8 to 10% of the total budget is intended for the county. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of which, the city of Zagreb has 4 or 5%, those 7 billion, and all other cities, municipalities and counties have 5 billion and now they need to finance it. So give me a minute to be aware of the situations in which each county is located. But that's why Osijek-Baranja County is the best in meat production, milk, cheese, eggs, fish, fish etc. That's not what you're gonna talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87678	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87679	Unlike almost all the predecessors who spoke, who could not find any flaw in the strategy itself, the only flaw was that these were the good things that the previous speakers said were afraid, afraid, etc., but I think you agree in this regard if we consider them that this strategy is not for cowards but for brave people. But you're saying, you find the flaw in this strategy by denying it even the name of a strategy because there are no deadlines. Something in his replica was said by a colleague, Jovanovic. I will also remind you that one strategy is actually one framework for how to achieve a specific goal. Although rarely when this strategy happens and it has a goal, but this is not a hologram, this is not a calendar you know when something is done during a certain period. That is why there are special acts, also discussed by counterpart Jovanovic. However, all in all I agree with what you said and what is neglected, and I am glad that you said it and I think that in that case you remain, that our educational institutions are not only educational but also educational. It's something that deserves to be talked about all the time because we see that many people, because of some fear, are completely unwarranted, I think, and manipulated, have spoken against civic education and denied the right to raise children. This does not prevent, of course, but, in fact, imposes further challenges on the family to participate actively, not only in the educational but also in the educational process of their own children.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87680	Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87681	Thank you very much. My colleague Ingrid Antičević, I see you are on the verge of my debate. I'm so glad you said that. Namely, I have spoken and quoted Stjepan Radic, now I will say who, but before that, Mattija Antun Relković wrote a book called Satir or Wild Man in which he described everything that would be, even caught up with educational not institutions but measures that would help Slavonia get out of the crisis and Slavonia in general, children who attend school, adult education, etc., but we will not talk about it now. So you're saying that I said that they were good or that you interpreted good things for brave people, and your colleagues keep saying that I said nice things, that they're nice things for brave people, you're the first one who said that I said it was good. That's where we get along and I'm so glad. And as for the calendar or the hodograms as you say, it's a path, a calendar or a hodogram of this strategy is a path to infinity as well as Plan 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87682	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87683	Thank you very much. Comrade Grubisic, here's more on the deadlines. In fact, I hope the minister will now comfort us at the end of the debate and will say that he does not accept this proposal from the board, the parent board, to delete the deadlines. Why, because it is quite certain that this large group of prominent experts, a scientist who prepared this strategy with deadlines, was thus imagining a strategy that would be accepted by the Croatian Parliament, so with deadlines. The fact that time has run over from the end of the strategy to the debate in the Croatian Parliament does not change anything. The deadlines can only be redefined and this should actually be a proposal for a committee, redefining, a slight shift, but there is no reason to say the deadlines set for 2020 change in any way. Thus, all who worked on the strategy wanted the strategy to be adopted by the Croatian Parliament with deadlines, precisely marked deadlines and that wish by all those working on the document should be respected because otherwise they would have received a strategy without deadlines. So they pictured the strategy as a marathon that is now marked starting position. The strategy goes into life, the marathon needs to run, and we should take this decision to clear the deadlines and we should take the scenic bone out of his arms and legs and tell him now. So I agree with you, it should insist that deadlines are redefined but not removed because I repeat, that was not the wish of all those who sign the strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87684	Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87685	Thank you very much. If you've compared your colleagues Kosor to this strategy or compromised whatever you want with the marathon, I hope the marathon doesn't run in an honorable circle. And when you said that the minister had whispered to you that the amendment of the committee would still be rejected for... Well, you said now... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And you're expecting, well, I thought it was a flyer, which it isn't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, there you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87686	Thank you. The next replica of Đurjica twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87687	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Grubisic, in my discussions here I would just like to start with, the page is 56, professionalising teaching profession. The awareness of teaching work as socially valuable, important for promoting key social and human values, with members of the profession enjoying a high reputation in society. The distinguished colleague, and through his debate and through all that we are warning today is that he is aware of the Croatian teacher and professor at a very low level. They are proud and poor today in our society, you could say they belong to the highly educated poorest layer of Croatian society, yet committed and hardworking. And you told your colleague that you as a doctor can advance. Yes, you can, perhaps a little harder than if you were a minister doctor, then you would already take care of yourself for a good job, and you see teachers of foreign languages, informers and others unfortunately have to sit in the employment lines or just go out of education, go out somewhere or go to a private business that is really questionable at this point and will probably fail. Today we are talking about this here Croatian people and Croatian states and Croats and all citizens in this Croatia today expect concrete solutions, so concrete solutions from point 1 to point 57. or how many of them are already in this strategy. Today's minister is not to blame for this strategy, not guilty. People were relieved when the former minister left the ministry's post and hoped he'd go to his new job that you had secured, so he remembered it wasn't convenient. We therefore do not expect any declaration. [[Intruding Batinić: Time of fellow Sumrak.]] This is a really beautiful, declarative book, very beautiful but concrete solutions are what the Croats expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87688	Thank you very much. The answer of my colleague Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87689	Comrade twilight, well, a little bit of your replica was how to say maybe a little party indoctrination. I spoke from the heart and soul listening every day and having the opportunity to have friends among teachers, among teachers, and I know well what happens every day. These same people work two hours longer to earn some 20 kunas on that kind of overtime, 20 kuna. That's a lot to him. That, what we're talking about is the reputation of a teacher. It used to be in the village, so it's just about a teacher in the country a teacher, a doctor, a veterinarian and a priest was an alpha and an omega in a village. Today, look who the teacher is. I'm afraid so. The reputation of teachers and not only the reputation, clearly this miserable monetary income, has been ruined. So they buy paper for printers, buy themselves 500 pieces of paper so they can print the material to their children. They buy chalk at school, they buy chalk at school. Do you know that at all? Come on!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87690	Dunja Špoljar, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87691	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Grubisic, I would like to refer to two topics from your debate on the declaration of good wishes. So your first thesis was that teachers couldn't advance in the profession. My colleague Tomic has already denied it, and I'm just going to point out that. So I can make progress. This progression system isn't optimal, it's not too motivated, but it exists. So I can advance into mentor and counselor teacher, and here we expect some improvements. And the second thesis is that children in Croatia are left with the services of their grandparents or other relatives, and that is partly true, because all of us here in this House have brought a few amendments and additions to the Preschool Law where we voted that preschool in the year before leaving for first class be at least one part of the classes, or hours of preschool stay mandatory for all children in Croatia. Therefore, there should be no child in Croatia who will come directly from Grandma’s wing to the first class classroom.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87692	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87693	So, you yourself have admitted that the advancement of teachers in the profession exists as we say in medicine in the clues, in short and plain terms. And that still in Croatia free country after 23 years, after 15,000 dead people in a fertilized age whose loss is irreparable, and only in World War II did we lose half, 300, 400 thousand people. We still don't have available kindergartens for our children in Croatia to tell you about. In Brod-Posavina County you have only 4 kindergartens at 150 km along the Sava River as long as the Brod-Posavina County stretches. There's an Oriovac, there's a Slavonski Brod and a Vrpolje three kindergartens, no more. If you want to enroll your children in Slavonski Brod and live in Garcino, then you must pay twice as much as your parents from Slavonski Brod. It's that feudal local that some sheriff says, I don't like to say it to the sheriff. But that's what he set up, that's the tariff on him. And the fact that grandma's service is baby-sitting. Come on, I've got a grandchild for preschool now, and if there's this new model that's the first grade of six years, he leaves at 8:00 and he's done at 10:00, and Dad and Mom are working. Who's gonna pick him up from school? Who's gonna bring him home from school? Who will come before him? So here's what you want to say? Who's coming for him? A dad who works in Vinograd to drop the surgery and go get him? Well, don't be like that, people.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87694	Thank you. And the last replica, Dubravko Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87695	Thank you, Vice President. Of course, my colleague Grubisic said that your debate was emotional because it must be emotional because here is the first time after 20 years we have talked about the Education Strategy in the Republic of Croatia. And all those who hold up and education, but also the intellectual growth of our homeland, of course, welcomed this document as a strategic document. I would just like to complement you in fact when you mentioned that the strategy is also about lifelong learning and about elementary school and about high school, that the strategy also discusses artistic education. No one here has mentioned this important part of the educational process that happens unfortunately in a small number of cities, and about municipalities at all, I don't even talk, because it's just art education, music education, dance, movement, drama art that opens up new perspectives, new perspectives to all those who go through and creates a new view of excellence in these people. Unfortunately, too few children, less than 5% of children participate in this artistic education, in art education and in art education, which in any case creates better and better quality people. You also mentioned free books, transportation. Of course, it depends on the local environments too. In my town, we took out 400,000 kunas together with the county and bought free textbooks. Also my county fully co-finances transportation. This can be done by other counties, it's only about redeploying and creating some strategic preconditions for what's important to you from what's less important.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87696	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87697	Thank you very much, finally. So, Mr. fellow art education. You know, if you'd come to us, and I can give you an invitation to come to Slavonia, there are no days when there are no artists in Slavonia of any kind, mostly on the music scene, so there's no village that doesn't have my own to say to my cultural art society. Even though we are the most fiscally weak county apart from Osijek-Baranja, so these four other counties, the fiscal capacity of our counties is the weakest, the people still have spirit and that's what to say to Slavonia, in some ways, it still sets out perhaps from the others, we haven't cloned it.' But I agree with you that in this part of the part you've been talking about, we might also have been able to have a different boredom to say strategy or plans or whatever action you want, so maybe we could have a lot more talent in that sense. Whether in art education, whether in sculpture, or in music. Maybe we'd have some more cellists besides those two, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87698	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87699	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Budak, colleagues and colleagues. So here at the beginning let me point out that here we are discussing a proposal for a strategy of education, science and technology. Strategy, colleagues and colleagues. Listen, listening carefully to all the discussions so far, I'm not sure we all know exactly what the strategy is, and what an action plan or an implementation plan is, if you will. So in some discussions, I heard that the strategy was too extensive, and in others, it was too big, and then concrete measures should be, and then they shouldn't be. Since I'm a professor of expertise and I believe that repeating the mother of knowledge let me tell you, colleagues and colleagues, which is a strategy. The Encyclopaedia strategy defines as – the strategy comes from the ancient Greek word strategists and literally means three points and is used to mark action aimed at achieving a specific goal after longer planning. So, colleagues and colleagues, this isn't about a list of what to do, what to do exactly, it's not a micro-management, it's a list of what we want to achieve and what are the main guidelines for achieving it. Now let me say a word and a strategy. Speaking of other points at the very beginning of the mandate, I used Bible Hallelujah! Now I would use the same similar, not wanting to prejudge, which is a habemus strategy. We have a strategy, thank God after 23 years, I think it's finally time. I'd like to begin by commending everyone who's been involved in the development of the strategy, so also Professor. Budaku and the former and current minister and all others who were involved in any way, all those who gave constructive criticism and suggestions and everyone who discussed it today. I think it's a major contribution to this document that I believe is historically important. Strategic thinking is therefore an important element in the planning of all social activities, and there is education of particular importance. And here I stress the importance of education because I'm going to repeat one more philosopher said if Athens doesn't have good tailors, the Athenians will be naked. If she doesn't have good carpenters, the Athenians will be barefoot. But if she doesn't have good teachers, Athens won't be. And that is the essence and essence of this strategy, and every time we discuss education, it should be the focus of a good system, a good teacher and a motivated student, and that's what we all want here. We've had a lot of attempts of selective I'd say ad hoc reform into a system that has proved insufficient, insufficiently planned, not systematically implemented and introduced overnight. I'll remind you again, Croatian national educational standard, I'll remind you of a bologna that's partially relived, and it's not. So all the changes that have tried to be introduced over the knee so I say failed. And the strategy is exactly what will guide us to gradually and slowly change the system and stakeholders of the system. So, the strategy is a fundamental document for a comprehensive reform of this system, and I hope that in due course, regardless of the authority again, the next and the one behind it, which will pay attention to this and the next legislative initiatives that will come inspired precisely by this strategy. As my colleagues before me have said, the national implementing body should be guaranteed that. Education should therefore be made available to all under equal conditions in accordance with their abilities. But colleagues and colleagues when we talk about equal terms it's not the same for everyone. I'll give you one very clear illustration, colleague Peja Grbin and my smallness looking over the fence. The fence is 3m high. A fellow coat of arms won't need to lift as high as me to see across the fence. It's the essence of equal chances to give everyone as much help as it needs to be the same with the one with the optimal conditions. I was talking about the autonomy of the employee institution, and I wouldn't be here any longer. So I would point out once again that that's a good thing. However, it is the responsibility of the institutions, their autonomy behind them, and the need for us to have a clear and efficient quality control which this strategy provides, and I am very pleased. When we talk about universities, I would re-emphasise and highlight their diversity of interval and transcidisciplinarity, which is a requirement of modern times. So my vision and my belief that we don't need 5, 10 or 15 public schools, high in uniform, no, we need different ones that are adapted to certain climates of our homeland that are very diverse but also that encourages the internal mobility of students. Namely, and as a professor I am quite dissatisfied with the mobility of our students who generally find it difficult to go to study outside of their place of study, outside of their place of residence if they can study in the place of residence. Of course, one part of this mobility is motivated and the social conditions in which they live, but I hope that through the construction of additional capacity of student accommodation we will allow them to, therefore, talk about equal chances, on equal chances access to higher education in the place as well as students living in it. Since the strategy is extremely comprehensive, I can't say everything I want to say in these 10 minutes, but I will only stay for a little while at primary school, primary school because I spent most of my working life in it and because I hold it extremely important, because it is a compulsory education that all of our citizens need to go through. First of all, basic education, both secondary and curricular reform or curricula, I don't know what's true for Croatia. Which means that we need to have the uniting of objects, the education of the staff that this subject will teach, the introduction of new objects, etc. We have many examples from our closer and further neighborhood, so you have an area that is conditionally called science so that unites all exact sciences, it's just one example, so there's a lot more to be found here which and how to implement exactly and in which way, but it's now, I have too short time to burden you with details, or my opinion. Changes in the structure of primary school education are also necessary. Someone also mentioned to me that our children are getting into the system too late and leaving too soon. One bright example is our northern neighbour Hungary, where children enter the system at 5 years of age, have 13 years of compulsory education. This may be something that we should pursue after 2020, but implementation of the strategy and reform will show where these further reforms will lead us. The teaching profession needs to be defined, the teaching profession is much today, here in this final debate is said, and that means, what does it really mean to shape the profession? First of all, have a competence standard, licensing, promotion, material status, of course and attract the best in the profession and improve institution management. We lose colleagues and colleagues a lot at institution management. At a leadership that isn't always pedagogical, but now that's another problem. To attract the best in the profession, all this work works with the heart, I know it, it knows everyone who spent a minute in that system. And believe me, material status is not all about teachers, and that many are very willing to work with their children, and I say conditionally, and additionally, and unpaidly and in every other way just to give them the best of themselves and the best they can. And as our colleague Damianac said, we teachers think we're one of the few professions that we've been through, and our past work is our students who report to us on the street, who greet us, who congratulate us when we have some success, who go through life with us. I am privileged to have such, my former students and former students, and believe me, it is, colleagues and colleagues, a great fortune. That no money can pay. Therefore, there is a need to improve and ensure quality in education, of course there is the task of the state and local self-government units, a state that needs to ensure a minimum and units of local self-government that can and do not have to participate in additional ones for their students. And finally, since we are running out of time, the strategy is not carved into stone, we will change the strategy, the announcements already exist that we will review the strategy and re-examine after a number of years of its implementation, according to what is necessary. I wish in this assembly we could reach a consensus on this strategy as we have achieved and on the strategy of, say, developing entrepreneurship, we have 8 abstentions all others have been for. Because this is an important question as to how, I think my colleague Tirali said this is not a strategy, not a SDP, not a HNS or anyone but all of us, all of our children who are going to be educated according to that strategy. So, finally, absolute support for the strategy, let's encourage the strategy, hopefully when we have a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87700	Thank you, too. We have one replica. Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87701	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Hajdukovic, I don't know how much this calls to a Greek philosopher that Athens will not fail, or that it will fail if there is no education, is it, as far as I know, Athens has failed after all. And it didn't fail because of education because Greek education is the legacy of European culture, so it fell apart because of something else. And when we talk here, you give absolute support to something that's said about, as you said yourself, it's not about deadlines if it's well interpreted, it's about where we're going, and you're talking about education all the time. This strategy bears the name Education, Science and Technology Strategy if I am not mistaken. And science and technology in this strategy is 15% of the text, and I don't think it's contained anymore, and frankly, what are the goals that we want to achieve based on such a defined strategy that it can exist a few more years before we can discuss it again. Therefore, if these objections are formal and we remove one area, the area of role and science, technology, and where we are here and where we should be, something that the system itself cannot answer because that is defined by other circumstances, the overall development of society, and that is what we have not seen here in creating this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87702	The answer of colleague Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87703	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Tudjman, so you're right, I was talking about education mostly because it's considered competent, so that's what I paid the most attention to. You will also have opportunities to say, I will listen to you carefully, and I would also like to hear your contribution to the debate. Your colleagues from the club did so on the board and all their suggestions were adopted in the form of amendments that came before us on benches. So I don't see that any suggestions that are constructive couldn't get into the proposal and actually I'd insist first then on not accepting if the attitude was that we wouldn't accept anyone's suggestions. As far as your goals are concerned, your goals are clearly numbered. I don't think I'd read them now, but here's objective 1 to build a system to identify the promotion of development, ability, potential of individuals and strengthen services for lifelong, personal and professional orientation, target 2 to improve quality and establish a quality assurance system, target 3 etc., etc. So it's all clearly written to you. I don't see what's unclear about it. As far as Athens is concerned, it's an example I like to quote. Yes, Athens has failed politically, that it has failed militaryly, but it has never failed spiritually. Why? Because even today we quote Athens philosophers, which is what we call today to some of their thoughts, which is what the whole of Rome is after the kingdom and the kingdoms that were formed were Hellenian by that. As a fellow historian, I believe you're aware of that, so that was the point. The culture of Hellen, Greece has never failed, and the current modern Helen Republic is very proud of that legacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87704	Thank you. Next up for debate Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87705	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, dear Professor Budak, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I would say the proposal for this strategy gives good guidance for transformation, education and education. These guidelines, if they can be implemented, I really think it will lead to an improvement in the current system. Although I am a layman in this area because of the importance of the subject, there is still a need to highlight some of the elements that I think might need to be more highlighted in the study. What would be good to have at least some supporting strategy documentation is I find a comparative comparison of the measures proposed with the measures taken or taken by the countries that are best ranked on that PISA scale. We, in principle, don't need to coloquially say in many areas to invent hot water, it's simple to go and see how they do it more successfully than we do. If you go to work the car you will not start from the stone wheel, you will take the blueprints, models of the most profitable models and try to adapt to what you want to do. Several places in the strategy show that parallel practice has been considered. But when we talk about this practice, I think it would be good to highlight or place an emphasis that one of the measures that will be discussed would be education in the practice of our primary and secondary school teachers in countries that have far better results on this mentioned letter, for example. in Finland or bringing experts from there to participate in the development of this strategy, especially in its implementation and education of our teachers and teachers. At the level of higher education, such measures are predicted but I did not get the impression that their special attention was given at the level of primary and secondary education. The strategy owes attention to the day and the problem of lifelong education. One of the problems that I have in my mind, since I come from the administration and often report on the subject of the administration, is insufficient commitment to the implementation of a lifetime-long education of officials in the administration and at national and lower levels. It should be concluded that, apart from the occasional reference to certain seminars, our administration does not have enough motivation and systematic work on lifelong education, everything is mostly left to the individual initiative. The result is that the level of training of officials in the administration is at an unsatisfactory level, and just as a whole is unable to respond to the demands that modern circumstances put before... This may be the most visible resistance in which more implementation of the eGovernment principle is given. The situation is not better when we talk about specific areas of expertise. We often face officers who are under-represented and in an area that should represent their profession. Then comes the situation that we have a description of the administration as bureaucracy... not as a service of citizens and the economy. In any case, I think this field requires far, far greater co-operation and competent ministries, mutual cooperation with higher education institutions and with economic operators. I therefore believe that perhaps this problem should be given more attention even in this strategy. That's what I'm saying because I think it's a problem that generates and many other problems of ours. Here in the strategy it is concluded that Croatian 15-year-olds in these international assessments of knowledge achieve below average results in language and mathematical literacy and natural science. It is correctly found that access to knowledge must be applied and in particular focus on application. And that's where I agree anyway. But through the strategies I believe that perhaps we should focus even more on that very change, I would say paradigms in our schooling. Our schooling has been for generations which my... impression was focused on handing over dry information to students and students. One example that confirms this is the case from the media when the teacher asked the students to know the color of the lights on Filip Latinovic's carriage. So it's wonderful to devote... the literature so much time and effort that such details can be known from such out of your head, but I'm not sure that that will leave enough time to acquire skills that would give students a better chance of working in Microsoft, Pliva, Nikola Tesla, Ericsson or better doing their job as civil servants, unless we have robots who can sleep for three hours a day and spend the rest of their time with a computer and a book with an infusion in the vein. Our schooling said it would have been extremely successful for generations to create extraordinary content consumption, so it was at a time when I was educated and studied, and somehow I'm afraid it is now. The change of paradigm is in this sense necessary in the sense that our education simply needs to start creating content creators. So any knowledge students receive in terms of information should be focused on this knowledge, that this knowledge must be usable in its application, in creation, and not just... I think there's a key that can change our results in education for the better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I say, this strategy highlights the focus on the results of schooling. However, I think it is further necessary to define, i.e. to point out the acceptance of the need for these quantum rates. This change that's necessary, so our education system isn't just creating... diversified information which can then be used mainly on television knowledge quizs, but to create successful creators of new content and new knowledge and innovators. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's a key I think our future as well as the nations in a modern global environment. The strategy provides for measures to develop and expand the application of learning. But it seems to me that it may even be conservative in that area. For starters, well, I guess I'm saying again I may not have enough information, but it seems to me that it's very simple to make all the textbooks and printed materials available in electronic form already for the next school year, and two years ago, the finding is quite enough for such materials to be used significantly by adding multimedia and interactive content. Here is also often the example of Finnish practice when we talk about schooling. It does not apply either in their way of teaching, so it gives everyone equal chances and students with difficulties and all other students and gifted students. In this direction, I believe that it is necessary to move towards change in Croatia's education as well. Our strategy of truth pays attention to this, but the greatest focus when we talk about intervention, so expert teams and professional staff's business attention seems to me to focus on students with difficulties, and on gifted students. But I think that attention should be focused when we talk about professional work on everything equally regardless of limited resources. In the first instance, more attention should be paid to learning students, as well as to their parents through methods and measures that will allow each student to achieve its maximum. So, the one to say so is the average student. I'm layman, I say again in that area. But I'm guessing that students who are assessed as average don't get enough attention, that they're often left to themselves. If we miss the opportunity to lead such students to their maximum, I think we are putting ourselves at risk of missing even gifted students, and in particular to create a system that effectively recognises each gifted student should pay particular attention to them, and I believe that these gifted students need to be provided with specific material learning conditions and improving and developing their maximum, requires much more investment than by developing a maximum, perhaps a student who is not to this extent gifted. That's what I think requires elemental logic. As far as higher education is concerned, it seems to me that we are going to make this leap that we need in the existing system and in the existing system most difficult. Most of the measures envisaged here require significantly greater investment in public sector funds. And I agree that investing in school is generally a particularly high school necessity. But in a situation where we have a reduction of available resources in the public sector, I think we should be focusing on improving the existing system in any case. And I consider that by improving the efficiency of the exposure system to greater competition. One of the tools that could be done here, I think it might be the introduction of vouchers that students could use to study at any college at the same level. Another might be enabling, so a degree in university that gives better quality results has a greater specific weight. This can happen when we talk about the public sector by introducing much better competitive testing when receiving... or workers in public enterprises. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't need to invent hot water here either, we can copy a system that has the European Union and that seems to me to be much better than ours. It seems to me that the better quality of a single university in the application of such a system would be more pronounced. This can be done by requiring the responsibility of students who are being trained on the burden of public funds, that they may in some way also be subject to the refund of funds if, in some ways, the funds fail due to the interruption of studies, i.e. the departure of students outside. And there you might well consider that introduction... as one of the elements to which this could be achieved [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay, since I am running out of time, I would like to conclude that this strategy is a good basis for making other strategic documents, it proposes many positive changes, and I believe that these changes will make Croatian society more innovative and open. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87706	Thank you. We also have one replica. Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87707	Thank you. Thank you very much, sir, but give me some time back. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Pandek. I wouldn't answer that, because I was honestly hunting for what you said in your presentation. My key words were Finland and what I'd like to hear in your answer is why you're so attached to Finland. Why Finland? I'd like one good answer for me. And the other thing I'd like to do for you, I'd like to give you a review. I am older than you, I attended the 5th high school in Zagreb, and I believe that one thing, that our students who attend high school and high school get a very wide education. They get an education that belongs, sometimes it was to know what kind of shoelaces were on Madame Bovary's shoes when she went dancing. Or what better rock than the ring that Ana Karenina wore in the common culture. Now, unfortunately, no one cares about such things anymore, because no one does, most of them don't read, but they take the laptop, and then what we used to call at the college repetitors, and that meant the crash, and today it's a lecturer. Today, it's unfortunately a general unculture. So I advocate that in our high schools and high schools there is really one wide education left, that children get that general education, especially when it comes to Croatian and literary not only Croatian, but also our students Pandek at competitions outside of Croatia, so I would say in Finland very often our high school students who went to both V and X and in I. and MIOC win and they are excellent informers, are excellent in all their skills.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87708	Time! Thank you. Thank you, comrade twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87709	I'm still pushing for a high standard to remain in the secondary schools of general education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87710	Replication response, Drazenko Pandek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87711	Thank you. Why Finland, because Finland is thus... second to the success of its students and students at valorisation and the success of their schooling. There are among the first, let's say Shanghai, Hong Kong, South Korea, and Finland is one of the European countries with the highest rating. Because, in fact, the European system may be closer to us than the system of far east countries because I personally view Scandinavian countries as a role model for how society should be arranged and in this segment of education. And I think that when... in the preparation of discussions with experts from this area, they all pointed out the example of Finland as one successful story in this area. And when you talk about all this information, I agree, I say in the debate, nice attention to beautiful literature, beautiful art, but we have limited resources in terms of time. A bunch of information is created every second, every hour, the amount of information necessary to carry out a particular job is duplicated in a very short time. The amount of information you or I had went to high school or high school is immeasurably higher now. So we need to focus on the creators now to teach our students to be innovators and to create content, not just to know what they learned. It seems to me that this is one of the problems of our schooling so far, and this is also seen through us being 34th in a row rating unlike these countries that achieve far more successful results than we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87712	Thank you. Next up for debate, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87713	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Professor Budak, colleagues and colleagues. Here is indeed an incredible insufferable ease that a member of the HDZ counterparts tried to sue the current government for anything bad in the education system. However, it is data and figures that never cheat. Somewhere at the end of the last term, a group of parliamentary representatives led by Professor Flego, there was Professor Jerković, Marija Lugarić, who formed a complete analysis of the education system which was, in fact, the foundation of everything the Croatian government did when it came to education, and then it was clear from that document that teachers' salaries were too low, that teachers were underrated, that our primary and secondary education system was not good, that the pisa tests showed that our students were poor, that our higher education system was disintegrated, that the relationship of finished students and the need on the market was poor, that our doctoral studies were unquality, that we had many institutes that were unnecessary. And so we could actually say that at the moment this government took over among other things and the system of education and science resistors, it looks like one building whose roof was thoroughly destroyed, that the inter-story structure is weak, and the foundations are shaken. It was clear that there was no quality living in that house, but it was clear that within a year or two you could not build a new house. Therefore, and this can also be seen in the archives of parliamentary debates, it is decided that in the first year, a year and a half of repairs of laws that were then in force, from pre-school through primary, secondary education to higher education and science, but that a whole new building was being built at the same time, which required a strategy. And therefore already in May 2012, and I recall this authority began to work practically in December 2011, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in cooperation with the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts developed guidelines for the development of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy. After that, a whole series of teams, experts without any ideological, party or any other belongings were formed with the aim of forming a quality strategy based on which a whole new structure, a new educational vertical, will be built by the end of the term of office, by the end of the term of office. And that's it. Today we are at the end of this process, the truth may be somewhat later than we wanted, but with the aim of getting a completely new legislative regulation based on this strategy and for the first time in history we have a document that treats the entire system of education, from kindergartens to primary and secondary schools, colleges, to doctoral studies and connects education, science, technology with the economy. And in this, the quality of this document that is now really creating the basis that, without any party bickering, we bring together a document that without any demagogy determines the fate of Croatia, because the quality of all those who finish our schools will depend on what kind of Croatia will be after 2020. If we look at the entire structure of this strategic document then it is clear in it that every part, from kindergarten to a 9-year-old, some have asked why 9 years, so because all research has shown that if we want Croatia to be a society of equal opportunities for everyone and if we want it to become a social mobile, socially mobile society, then the key is to entering the mandatory education system as soon as possible. So today Croatia is a socially immovable society because the percentage of students coming from a family with a primary school is extremely small. It has been shown that if a child goes to preschool as early as possible, to primary school, and the longer this general education system lasts, then social differences will be due to the fact that it comes for example. from a Roma family, from a parent's family with a primary school to be less. In Croatia, it has been shown to be extremely high-quality, and therefore it has been decided to extend education by one year, but it is precisely that this year will be the year that continues in the previous year. And in this way, it gets the opportunity for children to enter the high school system a little later, something more mature, which allows them to perhaps choose a better system and direction that will define their later entry into the world of work. When it comes to higher education and science, what was often run by the polemics was around Bologna. Of course Bologna has good and bad sides, of course there have been mistakes in the Bologna process system, but let's let it go now. It is this strategy, together with the Croatian qualification framework, that offers a chance to correct this and provide us with what his first goal was based on the bad things that happened. So to have quality educated people who, after completing their education, have everything they need to enter the world of the labour market and to be useful to their employers. What I particularly want to highlight as the quality of this strategy, which is the part concerning students, the student standard. So, if we want Croatia to be a society of equal opportunities for everyone, to increase the percentage of highly educated and to make Croatia a social mobile society, then it is necessary to change the concept of student standard and to finance student standards from indirect to direct support, and that is exactly what the proposal that lies ahead of us does. So on the basis of this strategy follows the most important step now, and this is to make the strategy live in practice. I said in some replica, 70% of strategies fail, and most of all they fail because of people. The people needed to implement this strategy in practice, and this strategy will not be implemented in the practice of the ministry. They will be spent primarily by people employed in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, colleges, university, and ministries must be the support that will ensure these people ensure what is most important. So that education, science, research is a guarantee of Croatia's competitiveness in the European Union. Three things are necessary for the competitiveness of a society. It's research, development and intellectual capital. It is all in this strategy, where the whole strategy revolves around students, about the needs of society as a whole, where no humanistic basis is neglected anywhere, as some have tried to say. However, we have received some interpretations from European Commission experts that too much emphasis has been placed on the humanist component. Therefore, I call once again on my HDZ colleagues to think and to support this strategy, because this strategy is actually a document that we can send a message to the Croatian society that we are able to reach a consensus on the topics that are common to all people living in Croatia, because every child regardless of his father, the SDP's, the HDZ's or any other party will go to school, that school will gain knowledge that will enable him to develop skills from his skills, actually create competences, and then human values. Therefore, my message is that we should develop not only a society of knowledge as is often said, unfortunately mainly through political paroles, but a society based on knowledge and skills, and that the whole goal of this educational process is not just to get a good engineer, a doctor, but to get a good man. And because of that, the responsibility of our politicians may be greater than we do when we try to bring down some petty political debates on a small scale to each other with some sort of completely irrelevant thing. We are not concerned about seeing this citizens' assembly all day and they are dissatisfied with how we approach this key topic for the future of Croatian society. Once again, since I have spent one part of my time with people who have worked on this strategy, I want to thank everyone, because for the first time I think in Croatian history that one such key document, a strategic document that has been working on almost two years of intellectuals of top experts, has not asked for money. It is a very rare phenomenon, but in fact an example of how the socially responsible academic community and the economy should behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87714	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87715	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You see, you told Mr. Jovanovic that 70% of the strategy failed. If they were likely to go into analysis, then these strategies failed because they were misplanned, because they had no basis for the analysis of the situation and that because then the models that were done on it were simply misdesigned. On the other hand, you are advocating the opposition not to have this political or ideologically intended some consensus, but to agree together, and in the introduction you say, so let's forget what's happened to Bologna and weakness, but HDZ is responsible for everything we inherited. And you don't mention this when you took over, you had two and a half thousand scientific recruits. I asked a representative question about what would happen with this money, because it is said that only 20 jobs in science for all universities and all scientific institutes in Croatia are possible and I have received an answer that says that this policy threatens the financial system of the Republic of Croatia 2 and a half thousand new doctors. I don't know who can sign it, that 2 and a half thousand doctors of science are not capital on which the future of Croatia can be built, but that they are jeopardising the financial system. Not to mention, for three years now, funding scientific projects I don't know what term to use or not to exist or to exist in.../The speaker doesn't understand. Therefore, if we want to be, we have a strategy, if we want to reach consensus then at the very least we need to be objective and start from an objective analysis of the situation regardless of who is responsible for the successes or failures.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87716	Thank you. Answer, colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87717	Anyone who has studied the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports will immediately see that 80% of the funds go to pay. If we add that in one term, this government has provided free transportation of students, co-financing with 75%, which is another billion kuna, and that to subsidise scholarships to ensure the possibility for everyone to study another billion kuna, that is already two billion kuna. Therefore, it is clear that the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is such that you do not have any reserves in it. As far as scientific recruits are concerned, the story is not true. We have clearly calculated and proved that all scientific money that has met those conditions that should have been met on the basis of retirement can get a job at Croatian universities wherever they need to be present. Therefore, I am responsible for this and now no scientific recruit who has met the conditions must leave Croatia will get a job at Croatian universities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87718	Thank you. Next replica, Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87719	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Jovanovic, you're teaching for your debate, but here's a replica, consider it prof. A stranger that my plus is next. You're really saying you're looking for a consensus, but here it is before you came to power, or when you stepped in, you saw how everything in education and science was destroyed, how the salaries of teachers and teachers were small. Then why did you lower them further, why did you lower them, Mr. Jovanovic? Why didn't you pay for the transportation to teachers and teachers before Croatian Christmas? Because you were late, 7.01. Why didn't you do it at the 12th month when it was very important to them? I'm talking about you saying something you found, the ruins, and you started shaking and the foundations of it all. You say scientific money will get a job. So why is Mr. Jovanovic here in your term gone a few hundred scientific recruits out? What has left several hundred doctors outside Croatia? Why Mr. Jovanovic when you offered such wonderful terms and good wages and everything else? Well, you see, you say you should make a good man. Unfortunately, there is an impression in this policy, and here I am now getting a message, people are not so unhappy with our discussions on today's topic but I was already telling Mr. Jovanovic they are dissatisfied with the state of society. They are dissatisfied young people because they can't get a job, they're unhappy because they have no perspective because at 6:11 today we don't talk about how to create a basis, how the background is already created, and how we expect these young scientific money, young teachers and others to be hired. That's the Croatian people's grief. And they're not unhappy about this, they're unhappy about why we don't have a whole other debate tonight and all these days. That's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87720	Thank you, comrade twilight, time. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87721	Well, colleagues of the twilight when you deliver me a list of the hundreds of recruits who have left Croatia, I will answer you. So don't misinformed the public, don't talk casually because it's a lie. So you bring that list of people. As for the salaries and budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, then one of the lies is also repeated over and over again. The only budget that has grown under the terms of budget cuts and rebalances of the Croatian budget has been the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the salaries of teachers and teachers on two occasions. Therefore, the 357 regulation that existed illegally in this term was translated into coefficients for mentors and advisers, and the only ones who were spared the abolition of Regulation 4810 were teachers and teachers. And the only ones whose salary was soaring were teachers beginners who now, after a year of internship, had 400 kn more pay than they had before. Therefore, do not misinformed the public. Let's sit down one day if you want and analyze every decision that's been made in my term, and you'll see that you're completely wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87722	Thank you. Next up for a debate between Dragan Montenegrins. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87723	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Budak. Well, unfortunately, I have to start my debate with this conclusion that I assume you've all got on the bench. I don't know if you've got the Minister and Mr. Budak. It's about supplementing the strategy to say so. Unfortunately, here we have today in some way agreed on this one conclusion and formulated what would be the obligation to include education in the language and letter of members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia for the reason that there is no such thing in this strategy. However, here is a further explanation today from the secretariat to say so to the Croatian Parliament we have received one opinion that such a conclusion as we have suggested cannot pass. Unfortunately, we without this strategy, without this for us a very important element, and unfortunately it's the only one we stand for today. I wish some other club had talked about it. I guess they're assuming that we're the only ones who have the right to talk, but I think that's absolutely what all the constituency clubs and parliamentary representatives have. So it is about the education of members of national minorities who are not in the strategy to mention and not to include that topic. However, this is extremely important to us. I will, in my own explanation, say that the strategy of the sea, should in some way cover all the elements in which the Republic of Croatia has committed itself first and foremost to the European Charter on the Protection of Regional and Minority Languages, the Constitution itself, and the bilateral agreement signed by the Republic of Croatia with Italy or Hungary, or the European Agreements intending to end the integration measures, but also the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Law on the Education and Education of National Minorities. I will also remind you that in 97 years, the Constitutional Court decided in the case of the number of students that these acquired rights cannot, cannot be reduced. So, I think it's extremely important and on the other hand I've come across two passages in the Strategy, which is why we're worried at least, here I'm going to say on page 78, to ensure optimal working conditions for educational institutions, so it says in the creation of a network it's important to enable schools to be converted into local units and at the heart of lifelong learning, culture and sports, and to encourage the implementation of various public needs (for children with disabilities, gifted children, children members of national minorities and children in preschool, in front of schools involved in preschool education and education), it's quite worrying for us because it's just talking in the segment of additional space insurance. And the next thing is on page 82 through school institutions with difficult working conditions, so it mentions school institutions on islands, mountainous and poorly connected areas, but no mention of schools in languages and letters of national minorities. I think there must be over 50 in the Republic of Croatia, and among other things we've had a problem for many years, I'll just say one thing, here's the problem with school registration, which is 18 years long, here's almost 18 years old. I hope so, and I assumed that it would be in a strategy and segment on education in the language and letter of national minorities, and all other things would be arranged, not so detailed but after the amendments to the laws and action plans to say so. And now we have a situation that we've sent this conclusion, which unfortunately in some way cannot or will not be accepted, but it should be complete, it should be detailed, complete in strategy. Unfortunately, at this point, we're not able to do it so we can discuss it. What might be possible is for the Government to adopt, with its amendment which can be much more detailed than we have written here, amendments to this Strategy and then until the day of voting together with the Strategy, the amendment of the Strategy by the Government, we would certainly help, and on the other hand, if there are no such excerpts, although it is said that the strategy will be changed, that it will be complemented, etc. We will hardly be able to support without this segment the proposed strategy for which, I think today you have heard the opinions, we can consider as one to say the necessary, undeniable, extremely important strategic document which is here after so many years of waiting has come to debate and adoption. So whatever it is, let's talk or improve it or we'll throw out something that might be unnecessary, to adjust it to conditions. And in any case, we can talk about some strategy we have, so far we have nothing. But as I said, I wish this segment had been involved at the very beginning. And I thank Mr. Budak, he went to clubs, he was at our club. Unfortunately, however, we didn't have much time on this subject because the public debate itself was during the break, the summer break so that we didn't pay much attention to it, it may be partly our fault, but we weren't so involved, not so many minority institutions or institutions. I hope that you, or the Government who is the Proposer, will have enough hearing and together with us in this perhaps short time as it is that at least partially write this part is important for members of the national minorities and then we will be, and then it can actually be done afterwards, but it is important that there is one in this first strategy. That's what's very important to us. Let me just have a few other thoughts, since I had to reason with you this way. as I said the strategy was necessary, extremely important. And I wish in it, as it was said today, in a broader document, this could have been a summary, but in that larger document, it was precisely that we got a detailed analysis of each segment, we heard here today and in individual discussions of certain things, we heard in discussions on behalf of the club, but this is what it seems to me, and in fact I got the impression that it was set up too centralised, now don't mind me, but we usually come from rural parts, and we know what happens to those places and the needs of the population that unfortunately remains. And I'll tell you without what, without state institutions. First of all, many places have run out of post offices, and it may not mean too much to anyone, but since some cities are paying textbooks to their residents, many of the parents of the children who said so let's change their residence, we'll move out of those parts. I think that we should be careful in the strategy and take a good look at the question of not creating, or trying to keep it, and make it available to all citizens in all parts of the Republic of Croatia. Let's not create, let's just say, a difficult situation that young people are forced to do because of the lack of institutions to move, actually move to big cities. My colleague also spoke about the means to implement this. It is clear to all of us that without sufficient resources some measures will be difficult to implement. Why are we saying this, so here I will only give an example very recently in the public eye of the issue of the withdrawal of health insurance from the Republic of Croatia and we are afraid that if it happens from 01.01 next year, if it happens, the budget will be smaller for some 23 billion kunas, which is extremely large, and then it will be a problem for the redistribution of other funds within the budget,... will have the problem of the Ministry of Finance and the Minister himself, but the question is whether these measures will be possible to realise. I had another intention and my own personal examples, so to speak, to contribute to this strategy, but since I was already in the first part, as I said, I had to reason differently, unfortunately I won't be able to present these things, but I consider what I said, that it was mandatory, that I was obliged to say it, but I also hope that they will come to an understanding as we already agreed on these things today. Here, I won't be long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87724	Thank you. We have one replica, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87725	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, Montenegrin, I'm surprised why you didn't say what you just said during the last six months, so it's absolutely enough time for this proposal to be completely correct and that it will certainly ensure that the concern about the education of national minorities is ensured in a quality way because in Croatia it is very well solved and certainly needs to be made even better, so I think that the government should still accept the amendments that are in the next session Thursday, that there is the possibility that it can be solved in this way, and that further through the action plan, the importance of all those problems that are trying to solve school registration in the past period, and it has failed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87726	Thank you. Answer, fellow Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87727	Thank you. I said, there's probably a partial guilt on us and probably, I'm not running away from it. That is, you're probably right there, but I think that both the other institutions and the government and the ministry themselves and all those institutions that participated in the creation of this strategy could already in themselves... a very important issue one major segment, not least in the ministry there are special departments dealing with this issue. Maybe sometimes more, sometimes, let's just say, let's just rely on the ministries to do the part of the work that we assume should be done without us paying extra attention to it. Here, unfortunately, something happened that maybe shouldn't have happened, which we didn't notice in time, which you said in the last six months, but we weren't even on these teams that were made up of this strategy. So, here, it just happened, but I hope here's what you said, that there will be plenty of time for the next days to complete this strategy and that... this segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87728	Thank you. Next up for discussion, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87729	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87730	I apologize to my colleague, Boric. We have another replica. Comrade Babic, I'm just asking you, if I'm not looking in your direction, tap with...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87731	I didn't knock, that's true. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I followed closely what you were saying, and I didn't really understand your entire contribution to the education, science and technology strategy, but if it's already about preschool, primary and secondary education related to the letter and language of the national minority and by models a, b and c, but for preschool education, I think that the Republic of Croatia is devoting significant funds for this, and I don't think that national minorities are in any way cut off. He also told you about this and his colleague Jovanovic before, forgetting on the other hand that we too have as a Croatian national minority problems in Serbia regarding education. Those things that were familiar to you about Cyrillic textbooks that they gave to the Bunjevs, and by law in the Republic of Serbia, all students from 1st to 4th grade in their native language can have their textbooks, which is not the case again with the Croatian national minority in Serbia. I think that when it comes to this, it should be kept in mind, at least because of respect and reciprocity versus one, or another minority in Serbia, or the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87732	Thank you. Answer, fellow Montenegrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87733	Well, every time I go around like this, it seems to me like I'm, like, taking national minorities from someone in the Republic of Croatia. First of all, members of national minorities are part of Croatian society and as such enjoy special rights. As for the right of democracy as countless times here has been repeated, democracy costs. So, I don't think there's a dispute here whether the issue of national minorities' education should be in strategy or not, but if it isn't, I'm asking myself if there's going to be an education after the adoption of this strategy, whether it's being considered. I'm sure that won't lead to the termination of class. And as for the legislation and the application of legislation in other countries and, as you said in the Republic of Serbia, I have said it several times, I would like all members of the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia not only to have, but to have those rights fully met, first of all I know what the problems and you know it, I told you, I am a member of the Interstate Mixed Committee, a committee dealing with this issue, but we cannot ask things in the Republic of Croatia whether something is done, let's say, in Hungary or not. So we must first of all, and we often refer to these good legal frameworks in the Republic of Croatia, so we have to fulfill, not to be dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87734	Thank you. Josip Boric. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87735	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor. Well, here's what I'm going to try to say with my debate on this education, science and technology strategy, although I'm going to say right away that given the experience of the development documents we've been witnessing over the past 20 years and their implementation, I'm going to support something that I know in advance that might not work. But before that, I only want one impression of myself, since the minister came I have the feeling that somehow the situation in the system of education, of higher education, that a certain shift was made because during the former minister it was very, very bad and it was a major brake to further development of that system. But I'm going to try to explain to you what kind of preconditions I'm talking about this strategy in the first place. In fact, the Economic Institute of Zagreb 2012 analysed all the development documents of the Republic of Croatia and by 2012 there have been 159 since 2012 we brought several more here so that this number crosses 160 and they have analysed the following reasons for the non-implementability of these development documents such as this strategy. So they stated, the development documents themselves are incomplete and therefore technically invulnerable. Can we say that about this strategy? I think some parts say that. State administrative capacity is not sufficient for the implementation of documents. I don't think this document should be a problem, we have an administrative capacity. Now the third one may be the most important, there is no political will to implement the development documents or we can put this political will, there is no money to implement the development documents, the same thing fits, or maybe there is no desire when some other authority comes to implement these documents. This is still the last year of this government's term, we don't know what it'll look like in the future. So they listed further, the development documents that have the holder's implementation plan, the funding plan and the funding source, and here they connect to our state budget which is also a strategic document with three years of planning in advance, we plan on what we will do and where this should bring this country, we find that only 4 strategies have satisfied this technical document, and even today many call on them even though they are many and old. This is a '98 strategy for the development of the public road network in the Republic of Croatia, the '99 Transport Development Strategy, the '99 Strategy and the '99s Action Plan and the '99s Strategy for Waste Management, only 4 documents have some technical prerequisites that this can work at all. And then they conclude, the development documents are mostly missing in the financial section that follows this strategy. So we got a vision and the question is are we all going to agree to that vision? I think at the level of that vision or how we can actually say dreams could all be visionaries or dreams. But when we come into implementation then we will have what we got with the Strategy for Tourism Development in the Republic of Croatia by 2020, that strategy was adopted last year and now about this strategy everyone was talking about in superlatives. It is written in order to develop tourism needs to be taxed. What happened after three months? The finance minister arrives to raise the VAT from 10 to 13% and the strategy is no longer valid. So an easy move by the finance minister can lead to a degree of incompetence. That's why this reminds me in some segments of some comparison. Let's say for example, the primary school will last nine years, what it costs, how much it costs about that intention, we can't find out. And then it joins me a day I can want to buy the car of the best characteristics, I can BMW, I can Mercedes and I don't know how much it costs, I might have some money and now I should buy it. In the end, I find that my imagination or dreams could have bought 20 of those cars a day, and in reality, I'm driving in public transport on a tram or on a bus, and that reminds me of this strategy of yours. Because I believe that regardless of the quality of each of your chapters that you have stated here that every minister of finance and every next budget will make these 160 people in vain, that this is what they're saying so far. And I'm not surprised by this statement by the minister today when he explained why the deputy minister was interpreting this strategy in the opening because he had a better life with her. Maybe the minister didn't really get back together with her at the highest level, maybe he's like an experienced man who still ran certain institutions this all too theoretically. Because we've lost the past three years with a bad minister because it's simply something to remember the past three years of abolishing certain rights, cutting wages, ugly words, making love to similar people. Well, I think it's lucky he's gone, good luck. And that's why I'm saying I'm glad that you're at least as relaxed as that relationship is because I don't know where it would have ended if it hadn't been for certain shifts. And then we come to the most important part, who's gonna pay for it. Today it is always paid by citizens through local self-government, county, state. And what does that look like? The finance minister is now announcing changes in income tax. They'll take the local self-government 2.5 billion and then we write here on the strategy page how we're going to deal with preschool education, it says nice. Some new national curricula, so we're going to extend something, and we're taking 2.5 billion to local self-government, and when the chief comes and says gentlemen, your kindergarten was 300, when they pass me a new law, then you're going to be 500 or 700. Who's gonna pay for that? Who's gonna pay for that? Well, we can write what we want then. But in the implementation it will be bad, because I don't believe that... it's just education to some intellectuals, elites, because life happens in a specific area, a specific environment, and I can't accept this, let's just say that we're going to have a full day primary school course now when the minister, the former minister, announces the termination of primary schools and not one, 324 primary schools, 70 districts. Well, that's 400 schools. And then here he tells me about equal chances for everyone. I come from such a small environment, I am not from Zagreb, no equal chance, for whom, for everyone in Zagreb, in Split, in Rijeka? And then we say so we pay for the ride, that's a great measure. That's what we need to talk about. A strategy like a document made by intellectuals, okay, a lot of people at a lower level might not even read, doesn't simply read. There's a lot of teams, there's a lot of commissions, there's a lot of brains, but when we come down to that being, then we come to a concrete life that creates a problem for the minister that he has to solve. 500 million kuna for what, new textbooks? Recently with the list, my child is 8th grade, my new textbook, after three lists drop four lists, she's thin, she's all thin because we've made it easy for as many, for 300 grams, and the textbook they're paying dearly for this time has been jumped by local self-government, many are not, it's falling apart. We won't talk about it. It's the same strategy. Nobody convinced me where we connected the rural areas and the urban environment to the school system. Only if we're going to break everything and move everything to live in Zagreb or somewhere else. What are we gonna do with these people? They're cutting off our lines, the right to travel twice to the mainland, to cut our rail lines. Everything goes away alive and makes us live in the urban environment. This may be true for the city, but in the local environment, so when you announce the school's termination, you'll save 300 million kuna. So what are we talking about? It's the life of the gentlemen dear and many professions are important. I appreciate every man. 5.10. was Teacher's Day, celebrated, the profession has the right to celebrate its day, perhaps as rare. And we're talking about teachers' dignity, what dignity? So people, don't we see how we treat these people, how state policy treats them that should kind of support them? Just obligations, please go to school, please do this, this national plan, this HNOS, uh... or what I know everything doesn't. That's all. And in the field, these people are only turned to their abilities and little possibilities, and we've been listening to them today. I don't think it's time that at least we politicians with this magnitude talk about raising their dignity, given the way the last minister who was removed treated them in particular. So much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87736	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Željko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87737	I didn't mean to report for personal insults from my colleagues, because he's a convicted slanderer at the Rijeka Criminal Court so that his slanders don't touch me at all. However, once again, we need to correct the lies we have heard here. So no one has ever said that 324 schools will be abolished, it is said that network analysis will approach and that the analysis will show where a more quality school can be provided based on a certain value, and since it comes from Rab, which has been pointed out from the beginning that it will be worth a completely different approach for the islands. As far as the textbook is concerned, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to clarify that story one more time. So the first request before me when I became a minister, parents, children, teachers, teachers said the textbooks were unquality, that the bags were too heavy and the textbooks were too expensive. So my task was to resolve these three requirements: to be more quality, to be easier and to be cheaper, and that is exactly what has been achieved. So the textbooks are on average 15% easier, the bags are 15% easier, the prices of the kit are 15% lower and I have met my request. The stories that money was drawn from the parents' pockets are flat and superficial again. The analysis of the last year's textbook market showed that 70% of parents bought new textbooks. They came to the bookstore and bought new textbooks. For 15% of the students, textbooks bought units of local self-government, and 15% bought old textbooks or changed old textbooks. In agreement with publishers, therefore, it is said that these 15% of students will be provided with free textbooks on the basis of criteria and no one will be damaged in any way, and the same rules will again apply to the next school year where textbooks will be able to change. Therefore, fellow Boric, do not tell the truth, but I say to you slanderers it is nothing foreign.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87738	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87739	Thank you very much. That's why I said at the beginning that it was important that a new minister came along, yet he relaxed this situation because with a minister like this, I don't know what it looked like to you, it looked like that, I mean, like that movie from the production of our neighbor, Bura powder. It was a powder keg in that ministry, just waiting for it to explode in some way. And it's a good thing that you were replaced by the minister as the hottest half-tron, so the man he worships, that the Prime Minister has replaced you. It is one of the few situations in Croatia and it is okay and I think it has done it anyway in this way a favor to everyone because it is not easy. The man supports you, and you're replacing him, and you have to admit it. Whoever lies or doesn't lie will show time. I certainly didn't love myself as much as you did when you were a minister, which was obviously an honor to you, and you gave everyone moral lessons. Shut up about everything that's going on, and you've been the hottest anti-corruption fighter in the world. It's about the dignity of a person like you and it's good that you left that place and that people are still and that the school year and academics started in some kind of peace, regardless of all the problems you left to the next minister and we'll admit it. A man handles it. And there may be the greatest value not of this document, but of the people who work and live in that system, who live for that system and who may not be very helpful in this document. But a good policy attitude can certainly help them. They certainly didn't welcome it during this minister's time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87740	The next replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87741	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Boric. Yes, your discussions are supported by concrete data and you really don't have to be afraid of any slander charges, because it seems that our former minister of truth hurts or simply wants to keep quiet about it. You said the textbooks he got were a little easier and they weren't very good quality, but they're rich, richly illustrated, and of course we used to be in elementary school in my day 7 of the SCOJ secretary's office, and now the example of good practice really is the former minister of their party friends, there they are, taking pictures of them all, put them inside. But here they are also under the investigation of the DORH, and most likely some will end up due to these examples of good practice, thieving and jailing. But you see, says the former minister there was no money for you in the replica, and here are some colleagues. But it doesn't matter that much to this government. They are, for them, 8 million let's say a year to give for rooms in one of the most beautiful places in Zagreb and it is Zagreb Tower. And there is now Minister Zmajlović as well as an example of the good practice of this government and the austerity of this government, and in reality, the government will, through the fact that Minister Zmajlović will see from his 8th floor fine on top of the citizens One sentence only. [[/Upadica Batinić: You are replicating your colleagues, Mr. Sumrak. Please!]] I want to ask my colleague Boric what you think it really is a picture of this government and examples of their good practice. What kind of echoes on this strategy?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87742	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric. I hope you answer the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87743	We play, question and answer. It's all right. He asked me, and Mr. Jovanovic, it doesn't matter. How do we explain that? I don't know. They failed to explain to me when we discussed the state budget situation, that in 2011, we ended up with 11 billion kuna on the portfolio of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports then. And We have paid for all the wages and the additions, the increased wages. And the additions and everything that later slowed down for the term of office of the former minister, and with 12 billion, we can't, but everything is downsized and still something is cut off and can't. And then I asked what kind of system we created, but you can't get an answer, that with 800 or 900 million more you can do less. Now, that was so much inflation, I don't know. Then we said they introduced that free ride. Okay. 400 million. Where's the other 500 million? We can estimate where he is. How much did health care cost? All that struggle with everyone in society, imposing their own ideologies and everything. How many people do that? Where did they go in? What's it gonna look like? That's the question. And what in future time will we or someone else find out when it comes to power that everything there is hidden. It'll show time. But when someone tells you that you're in society and that we need to live in a society of equal odds and then they're surprised who even said that, and he said that, he's going to shut down 324 schools. I didn't make it up. It says here in the New List and 70 small district schools, because it saves 330 million kuna. Then we are not a society of equal odds, and this strategy has not convinced me of that. And I hope that the new minister will not follow what the former said and that it will remove it from the side at all as an option of saving, and the finance minister will show whether it is or not. And so I explained why the documents, the development documents of this country, were falling, falling on the financial component. And she's not here at all. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87744	Next replica Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87745	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I agree with my colleague, Boris, when the Kukuriku coalition, and in particular the SDP, announces rationalisation, or announces a review of the school network, then it really needs to get up and up in time and start talking about what can happen if the school network is going to be saved. Namely, it means losing jobs. But what's the worst way to end small schools is to die in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Where there are no schools, where there are no elementary schools, where there are no children left, there are only unfortunately old people who die and stay empty and that's what history has shown. And it is quite clear without the fundamental social infrastructure that there is no survival in this case of the Croatian people. And I agree with you, and I believe that the new minister who is before us who listens very carefully to this debate that will not take those steps, that this very strategy that is ahead of us in some way means their commitment, although we do not agree with this strategy. We do not agree for many reasons that our representative of the club has already spoken of, but at least strives for some of the objectives of the strategy to be in line with the real needs of the population of the Republic of Croatia, and in this sense I believe that it will not go to those rates of abolishing small schools or district schools because they really mean the survival of the population in these places. I'm thinking about islands in particular, but I'm also thinking about other remote areas like you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87746	Thank you. Next replica of Ada Damianac. Answer? And you didn't pick up the tile. I watched closely the whole time. There will be a colleague, Boric. You still have two replicas. Next replica of Ada Damianac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87747	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Boric, you mention the dignity of a teacher. So I'm going to say that no one has destroyed as much the dignity of a teacher as your government and your rule. You mention the former minister. Let me mention the same to your minister. So I'm going to mention in a way, here's to remember your Minister Pugelnik, how he crashed the teacher's height with those famous poodles. So let me also mention to Mrs. Ljilja Vokić, in which way she brought down the dignity of the teacher and director when the director's shifts went overnight, when the directors came to work in the morning and other HDZ directors who were appointed by Mrs. Ljilja appeared at the same time. Isn't that the destruction of the teacher's dignity? Did you just change the flag a little bit? They're smoking on the other side, so now you're talking about teachers' dignity, and all the time you've been talking about HDZ's rule, you've never mentioned it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87748	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87749	Thank you very much. My fellow Master's Ladyship is mentioned in this document, I don't know if you've read it, I guess you've read it? So I was talking about the document and the way it was thought about raising dignity. In that sense, I mentioned that three or four days ago a teacher's Day was celebrated and that it was primarily not a job but a call, and that many today talked about it, and that it's not exactly in every profession let's say so much to raise the importance of something at the level of even the world and celebrate World Teacher's Day. And then it says here how we're going to raise our dignity. We need to be educated, educated, lifelong education, should go to certain professional lectures, etc., etc. And then I said what was true, that the former minister had brought the highness to the lowest level by his behaviour and manner of running the ministry. Well, we haven't had three or two strikes in just a few months. Well, those people didn't complain because they and that minister were fine. That's why I said that the current minister who came here was able to relax the situation and I compared it to something. You can be party-determined, that's no problem at all, and you can protect that. But what are you attacking Mrs. Ljilja Vokic who was also working on this document? What did she do wrong? So who are you attacking, this document? Oh, no? And then how good is it for a document, and it was as bad as what? Minister? What are you talking about? So if you want to defend Željko Jovanovic, you can do it, but don't get into these problems, don't. Because it's not worth it. We're talking about the document everyone in their own way. I described the history of development documents in the Republic of Croatia and all governments did them and they all fell. This one will fall, too, you'll see, on the next budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87750	Thank you. Next line, Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87751	Thank you very much. Well, here we are today listening here about the strategy of everything and everything, and I wouldn't want to talk about the former Minister of Science because everything he did wrong is visible today. And God forbid he stayed until the end, that science would simply sink. But he has this assistant who helped him, and so did your replica, Mr. Boric, which refers to the tax burden of local self-government units, and I told former Minister Linic the other day who asked him if he had been converted when he was protecting local self-government units, and he himself was discharging the state budget on the burden of units of local administration. That's how this minister works now. We simply wonder where and how and how the units of local self-government will survive. When we talk about dignity, and I would talk here about the dignity of the former Minister Jovanovic, then with his assistants specifically here and Agent Ronko who did everything that the town of Pleternica, in addition to the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, did not get this year's craftsmanship that we need so badly, the cook and waiter, they did everything to avoid getting that department in this year's school. So I ask you, where is your dignity, what have you been doing along with those of your Taliban in the ministry that you have set up and worked with? You have brought so far above all that science today is in such a bad situation and with these very moves that you and this same associate of yours who is doing evil to Požega-Slavon County have done everything you have done that we have not just received that department. Also, the Požega Velucilište has experienced four dean changes under the director here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87752	Thank you, fellow Lucic. Your time is up. ... Your time is up, I beg you, I appeal, let's not use offensive names. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My friend I will fight you, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87753	Thank you very much, dear colleague Lucic. So I say again, I'm going back to my debate and I said that I know experiencedly that we're going to have problems and that I find it hard to support something that I know in advance is going to be a problem. That's the strategy. Because when someone tells you that through a certain amendment to the Income Tax Act, they will take away two and a half billion local self-governments and give certain groups a higher salary, then they will not be able to, that salary increase, will not be able to offset the difference that will arise in the holes of these budgets that finance these local kindergartens. And if you take 300 thousand kunas from a municipality through that tax, what will it do to make up for the cost of that same kindergarten? Well, he's gonna break on the back of the citizens and it's not gonna cost 500 anymore, it's gonna cost 800. It's clear to everyone. And then we can ask and write about 9-year-old education, about how we're going to raise preschool education in one way or another. We can do that. That paper can hold. Will it be real? I don't, I don't know. I'm not ready to dream together with my colleagues on the left in that way. They didn't convince me it was possible. Why? Because I have experience. I asked Minister Lorencino if he was ready for the finance minister, then Minister of Finance to say that the 13% move destroys Croatian tourism, was not ready because the finance minister proposed changes and brought the tax. And then we narrowed it down to this story this year, that our tourism depends on the rain, that our tourism depends on the rain. And then we'll be dealing with it for the next few years by 2020. It means that our tourism strategy depends on the rain, don't let God let this one depend on the rain, maybe the one directly, the question is what the revenues of the state budget are going to be and what we're going to do about it. But when I see that one city of Split cannot build one elementary school for 20 years with the help of the state, with the help of the county, with the help of the city itself and with all its finances, people must protest. Well, then we can write strategies whatever we want, dear gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87754	Thank you, fellow Boric. We're continuing the debate. Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87755	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87756	A fellow fighter, a microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87757	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to start with what I've already said and it's in this strategy, that this high education issue of 0.73% of GDP simply prevents any serious reform of the higher education system. And I think that sentence should be put to the beginning of this document. On the other hand, what is said here is about goals. In one place, it is mentioned that in 2020, Croatia should have 35% of people with high expertise or elsewhere to have 6% of GDP for science and education, then it simply lacks those indicators per year to realize that it will be possible to see which way it will go. And that is why it is necessary for a number of other bodies, ministries not in terms of support, to create this, but as a guarantee that it will be. However, let me now make a few remarks concerning the measure of things in some way. Here we said that one of the fundamental values or approaches is the same chance for everyone. If so, does this mean that this reform will follow, not to put scientific institutions in central or as a basic criterion, but students and students or families if you want what will then be the measure of regulating all these relationships. In fact, it doesn't take much to ask that we can find examples of how you have a number of countries from the Netherlands to America or others where there are these November ones, as professionally called student state support, means those vouchers where each student gets from the state the right to enter college and study by choice. That's one model, the question of whether or not this strategy foresees and to what extent it works. And this would largely be a change in the public sector and on the other hand would open another dimension, which is that not only public universities but private and other universities private equal consumption, respectively... Right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the Netherlands, if I am not mistaken, 76% of children, i.e. students or students use that form of state support and are educated in the private sector. I think that, if this one model were to go to it, it's not clear from what extent it's going to go, whether it's going to be acceptable at all, and in my opinion it would be very good, it wouldn't endanger public universities because 95% of the students are studying at public universities, but it should be gradually informed and developed. So it is something that depends not on the wishes or efforts of only these scientific communities and all those who participate in it, but also on the financial and other sectors, all others, the economic sector primarily. By doing so along with this system of cheap student subsidized loans, so that every individual, every student, regardless of the condition of their parents, can raise a loan and start paying it off after schooling. This system has been developed in Australia as far as I know it, probably in other countries in a way that is subsidized credits, means that the countries provide benefits, support for the benefited interest, and the payment of these loans goes after employment, that is, when the person is completed and employed, and payment in case of illness or unemployment has been delayed. So that's one model we don't have an answer for. On the other hand, you have one finding that is quite questionable, says public universities will develop as research universities that are the key to society and knowledge-based economies. To what extent are universities today, that is, universities of scientific institutions? The more time goes by, the more and more, the less the scientific institution wanted me to admit it or not. Key, today's scientific research in large research centres is primarily and private corporations, i.e. the economy, industry. Today these in the most developed centers say we don't need you to specialize in our experts, we will create them ourselves, but you have to teach them scientific research. This compound, the relationship between economy and science, is simply open and is not defined here. We can tell him about good wishes, that this compound will be good, but if we don't create other assumptions, you have to make it possible for companies to make private, public, whatever, make it possible to create, stimulate them to invest in science and scientific research, it means free them from a series of other givings to do so. We don't have this mechanism, as far as I know, or you can see from another data, which is that it's the same in this document, that 90% of the 11.5 thousand scientific staff are working at the university or 80 or 90, and very little in the economy or in these research centres. It's a clear thing that a whole other ratio is desirable, but it needs other assumptions that this strategy simply has not been built in and cannot be built in because it is not, it cannot define the scientific community, but someone else has to do that part. So that's something that we really need to take care of and see which way we want to go. And then, by the way, you have some things, so when we talk about centres of excellence, then the question is how they're going to form and how the reference is going to be financed. Croatia must have its own development strategy and say, we are developing in this and these areas and therefore these scientific institutes or these universities will receive once, twice or three times as much money or I don't know how many of them because of it, that and that. There is no such thing, but because of the centralization of this system, we will once again be exhausted in the elections in scientific knowledge, which is better off not being there than being so formally. And by the way, maybe another topic that I don't know if it's real in this strategy, if we're asking the questions of national minorities, then it's a question of a segment that's more and more present in the world today, and that's a question of what's called a common denominator, the National Security School. I mean by that, in this case I mean both military academys and police academys and these others because it's more and more going on, integrates into this one public, to be an open system, into the university system, to be open to everyone, and not just to some, and then it means one redefine in my opinion of the law, so since it's working in some way is the status of those people who work there or should work at such a university or university, it should be like those... art academys.... So it's one question of how to simply solve all these questions. It seems to me that we should welcome this effort, that this is going, but my main observation is that around some of these crucial things we don't see solutions, I think we should have, and on the other hand, that success, regardless of how these elements were defined, depends on these external factors that are simply not present here and as I said already in the debate, may happen that the government will be the first to tear down this strategy because it won't allocate enough funds for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87758	Comrade Matušić, I'm sorry, you're too late. Time's up for discussion. Here you go, replica. This does not mean that if a colleague of Tudjman is speaking or another colleague, if the time is up, you do not have the right to reply. ... Time's running out for you, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87759	Okay, a little broadly understood. Thank you. I'll try to be brief. Here, I agree, my colleague Tudjman said, at the beginning of the strategy, there should be a fact that for higher education, science will be singled out, that 0.73% of GDP should be allocated, that it should stand out, there is 6%, in some foreseeable time. However, of course there is no planned dynamics, nor does this strategy say in any way how those 6% will be reached. So, it's safe to say that in the end, that's why I volunteered for the replica, but it's safe for the next budget, and maybe even for the budget rebalance to actually come face-to-face and maybe there will be a reduction in the budget for both science and higher education, and unfortunately, especially for the 2015 budget, we can provide for smaller funds, no higher resources for both science and higher education and in general for education. That's why this strategy really should have been brought in a completely different way, in different contexts, I'm not saying that the experts didn't participate, absolutely the people who participated were professional, respected people, but whether the way this strategy was being put in place was real, I don't think it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87760	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87761	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you see, I think that fellow Hajdukovic was the one who warned us about what the strategy means and how it is brought, but in all these strategies, there is a hierarchy, what strategy is being implemented and from which strategy. There's this national strategy and then it's an economic, educational and everything. And it's actually a disadvantage here, and it's kind of hard to object to people who have articulated this strategy simply because they didn't have parameters within which they could move. That's one thing, and on the other hand when we look at the implementation of it, then the question is, clearly, that there are no funds and that we all want to be 6% or I don't know how many separations for this part, but then when you have a full development in front of you, then you can ask the nation to give up this or that at the expense of some priorities. This way, just by having one strategy ahead of you, you can't expect it, but you can only hope that that's how it's going to be, is the methodological misunderstanding or the problem we're facing. So I say again we'll have something that whoever it is I believe in well-intentioned was done, but now I'll be able to be a little cynical be a good alibi to try but that the higher power was against it again. I'm saying that it came another way, that said, we have to give it up and that because of our children, our families that we can study then I believe that we can find ways to get to those funds with consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87762	Thank you. And final address, Minister Prof. Dr. He's a clear sailor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87763	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. I would like to begin by thanking everyone who has dedicatedly worked on this strategy without compensation in... and also to all of you who have endured and constructively discussed this strategy. Is she perfect? I say she's not, but she'll never be perfect. She can be mathematically said asymptomaticly approaching. And now I'm wondering again mathematically after which infinite visual shift comes the moment in which we're going to adopt it. If we don't adopt her then we certainly won't do anything. I think we've waited long enough, I think it's the last time to start reforming the education system, I think what I've been saying for a long time needs to reform the curriculas, we need to relieve the children, we need to teach them to think, we need to start working yesterday. If we wait with it, I think we're delaying this country's success to the end. I think since there may be problems and we predict that the problems will not be enough reason to postpone this strategy and not bring it in. I repeat, if we don't bring her in, nothing will happen, if we bring her in, we have some chance of success. I am glad that there was a consensus in this House today that there was too little money for science and education. I'd say there's a funny bit of money coming out. One comparison I'm just going to let you see how ridiculous the number we're setting out today is. Last week I was at Stanford, the Stanford University budget, which has 15 thousand students for teaching, for research is $5 billion. This ministry, my ministry of the entire education system, for nearly 200 thousand students, for 550,000 students, for 90,000 employees, for all science in Croatia has $2 billion. 3.6% of GDP is my ministry's budget. The EU's average for science today alone is 2%, which is another 5.6.7,8.9% of GDP for education. Cuba even has some kind of two-digit fantastic number of 18%. We all say there's no money, I say our share of education and science is less than the average in the area. The Minister of Defence argues that his budget is also in percentage of GDP, I think the Minister of Health, too, I wonder where the rest is then. If we have less then someone obviously has more and I believe that, if we bring that strategy, if it's pronounced as imperfect as it is, that we have a chance to convince the Minister of Finance to save it somewhere else because there's no room for savings. I agree with what the strategy says that the share of salaries in the budget must be lower, that does not mean that the salaries will be less. But the stake, Mr. Jovanovic said 80% of the salaries, if you take that segment for education there is a share of salaries 91%, and out of the rest of 400 million kuna the transport of students, 300 million kunas of teacher transport, there is virtually nothing left for that school in Pazigrad that has not been built for 23 years. I'd very much like to find the money to build it, I'd very much like to convince Minister Lalovac to give me a dozen million kunas that I need to reform the curicula next year, but if we don't bring this strategy, I'm afraid it'll be nothing. I am also afraid that if this strategy is not brought in that it is then a bra for scissors Minister Lalovac and a clear message that the Croatian Parliament does not consider education and science a priority for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87764	Thank you, too. I thank you, Minister and Associate Professor Budak. This concludes the debate. My colleagues and colleagues will vote later. Tomorrow, we start with a proposal for a strategy to take care of radioactive waste used sources of spent nuclear fuel. Have a good day. Session interrupted at 19.16 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87765	Proposal for a strategy for education, science and technology. The debate on the text of the strategy is over. The amendment was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the deadline laid down in its Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I am voting on the proposal to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote who's in favour? The vote is over. I find that most of the vote is 89 votes against and 27 against, 0 abstentions to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the Government's representative to explain the amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Minister of Science Vedran Navarre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87766	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and respected MPs. The government's amendment is very simple and reads: "Special care will be taken in education in the language and letter of national minorities in order to integrate minority education into the education system in the Republic of Croatia". The amendment would be integrated into the Chapter on Early and Preschool, etc. Raising with the objective of two to implement full curricula reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87767	I am opening a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am giving a decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the 88 votes in favour of, 30 abstentions, 0 against votes, we have accepted the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It became an integral part of the final bill. We are now going to the amendment of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Goran Maric, Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87768	Sustained. In short, all amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-09-0.u87769	Everybody's taking it? Thank you very much. And the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and Representatives. Thank you very much, Minister. All amendments have become an integral part of the final draft strategy. I am voting on a proposal for a strategy. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 94 votes in favour, 19 abstentions and one vote against the adopted Strategy of Education, Science and Technology in the text, as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. Dear fellow MPs and esteemed fellow MPs. We continue the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament with the announced agenda point - The proposal for a strategy for the disposal of radioactive waste, used sources and spent nuclear fuel is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. When adopting a strategy, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply. These are Articles 194 to 202. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The discussion on the strategy proposal was carried out by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on the Protection of Nature and the Environment, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of Health Marian Cesarik. Here you go, Deputy.
