ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78413	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning, we will continue our work. We will discuss: 7. Final proposal of the Labour Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 607; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of the Law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposal's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Minister of Labour and Pension System, Prof. Dr. Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78414	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs, respected MPs. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Work that we've been doing for almost a year. And in all this, we tried to find common language with social partners and unions and employers, but also with the profession, with work protection experts, with all those in charge of implementing the Labour Protection Act. Why did we go into the new law? The new law is and should be the law that follows the practice of the European Union, new knowledge in the field of protection at work. On the other hand, the current law, which was in force, had so many changes that it was practically impertinent. And to note that there were more than 50 regulations in force under that law for certain parts of protection at work. And some of those regulations were passed there back in 1949, that's our oldest rule. Some of these regulations regulate protection at work for professions that no longer exist in the Republic of Croatia and will probably never exist again when we talk about high furnaces, predators, weaving flats etc.. It was all the reason we went into the new law. We believe that it constitutes a framework for the establishment and implementation of the protection of workers' safety and health at work, as well as a framework for the implementation of five European Union directives in the field of protection and health and safety of workers at work and in relation to work. And when we first read, we set very ambitious goals ahead of ourselves, which is to reduce deaths because in the process of work, for some processes of work such as work in forestry, work in construction has been clear for years that deaths will be solved in these branches. Our goal is to make these deaths as little as possible, to reduce the number of injuries at work, to reduce the number of professional illnesses. And what is ultimately important is that, in the future, safety at work and safety at work be at an even greater level than it is so far. I must say that protection at work in the Republic of Croatia is a very high-level protection, which we have been fostering for years, and we have been promoting it for years. And despite all attempts to make that part that is very important for workers to be reduced in some way, work protection has been maintained at a high level. And this law only raises the safety and standards we have achieved in the Republic of Croatia to a higher level. One example of how the system was tried to disabling is the attempt to abolish the medical work that health minister Andrija Hebrang has done with nothing and tried to transfer it to the general system. However, here Europe has assured him and all the happiness and happiness of our experts who have not been able to switch to general medicine. So you get the medicine work you tried... She stayed and made sure she was doing what she was. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you to all those who have been systematic and have not been subdued and destroyed by the medical work. By this law we return the medicine to where it is, we return it to the production circle, we return it to where the medical work should be. Unfortunately, though, it would have taken us ten years to get back to that level that was in the previous years, and as for the very number of experts in medical work, so the doctor of medical work, and the network that we need to establish. But this law definitely opens a framework for that to happen. What are we doing with the law? We prescribe legal rules of protection at work, establish general principles of prevention of labour protection, introduce consistency and use and application of professional terminology in the field of protection at work, establish a framework for basic national prevention policies, and establish a quality institutional framework for the implementation of health protection and safety at work at all levels from national to individual persons authorised to carry out professional work protection activities at work. One of the remarks of the International Labour Organization was that our Labour Protection Act was extremely repressive, and very little attention is being paid to prevention and this law is correcting it. So, by law, we primarily go to prevention, and only then do repressive measures. As you will see at the end of the law for individual violations under this law, we do not automatically establish penalties, but we allow employers to notice the infringement of the document within 8 days and that after that, if it does not correct it to go punishment. This is very important for small employers who are very difficult to read the laws and we allow these inspectors to protect at work another possibility, which is that they go into preventive checks, to see shortcomings, but then not to punish the employer, but to order them to correct it. Following the first reading of the draft Labour Protection Act, the Croatian Parliament supported the draft law on 21 February 2014 with a recommendation that the final proposal should be considered in the text of the proposal and the comments of the committees concerned, as well as from the discussion of the representatives at the plenary session. The text of the final draft law has no substantial or significant changes to the text supported by the Croatian Parliament, but some institutes have been amended in accordance with proposals and remarks by parliamentary representatives and external committee members. The final draft of the law removes the definition of serious injuries to work as well as medical work, as they are institutes that define and prescribe specific regulations on health care and health insurance, and it is unnecessary to prescribe them in this regulation. We wanted the law to be readable and clear and to prescribe in the laws provisions that are defined in other laws, so we decided to delete these two definitions from the law. But the law very clearly defines the position of medicine work, the role of teams of medicine work. So, all that medical work needs to be done to protect the health of workers. Proposals related to Article 4 of the final draft of the law have also been accepted, so the work of firemen of pyrotechnics is excluded from the scope of this law when they are incompatible with the principles of protection at work, namely when firemen are at the theatre or when pyrotechnicians carry out demining operations. It is clear that these are dangerous jobs and that there is not a single measure of protection in the work that can prevent injury on these jobs, and therefore this part is excluded from the Labour Protection Act itself. But labour protection is prescribed by special regulations when performing other jobs, whereas the Labour Protection Act applies to that category of workers. We have also resolved the issue of going out of protection inspectors in the event of fatalities because it is important for the regressive procedures of the families of the dead and the firefighters or the pyrotechnicians, as so far it has been because of the legal vacuum that they have been having with them. Proposals have been accepted in relation to the number and composition of the National Labour Protection Council, which is now the advisory body of the Government of Croatia in a way that is now made up of the Director of the Labour Protection Institute in its capacity, and two representatives proposed by the Minister responsible for the work and by two representatives of employers and workers who are proposed by representative employers and workers' associations of higher levels according to a special regulation in order to avoid the possibility of revote. In order to horizontally comply with the new Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, Amendments to the Pension Insurance Regulations, and the Law on Mandatory Relations and the Law on Standardisation, the terminology of certain institutes has been amended in the final proposal, and all proposals on nomtechnical improvement of the text of the final proposal have been accepted. Most of the proposals tabled during the first reading debate were accepted and incorporated into the text of the final proposal, and for those proposals that could not be accepted more closely, the reasoned reasons in the text of the argument of the final bill that I will not read. You have it in your mind. I can say that this final bill is a product of long-term quality and comprehensive debate, and I hope that it will win the success that we all need as I have already stressed to reduce the number of deaths, reduce the number of injuries at work, reduce the number of professional illnesses and allow the working life to end in that section to go into retirement, not to go into disability pension. The Law on Professional Rehabilitation is also related to this law, so we introduce a whole system in Croatia with the goal of staying in the world of work as long as possible because the pension is older than the disability pension. Therefore, this law should also be seen through that part. There was a lot of controversy about that definition that it was forbidden to come to work alcoholized. We have the view that it should be precise and that the law should write, and as you can see and say that it is forbidden to come to work alcoholized. So 0.0 went through something we're not giving up on. Finally, we can say that we have a quality law which I am confident will bring better protection at a higher level of workers at work, ensure better quality and safer business of employers, better working relations and, again, mentioning the goal of reducing the number of deaths, reducing the number of professional diseases, reducing the number of injuries at work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78415	I thank the ministers. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSU Club, a respected colleague, Silvano Hrelja, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78416	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the final proposal of the Labour Protection Act and what can be given to it, to say as a positive argument is that in 18 years since the Law on protection was passed in work in this concept, it has suffered 7 changes which may not be too much, but it is certain to put all this into one place, having an integrated text of the law facilitates work and protection commissioners at work and experts and employers, and it is good that we went to this legislative procedure. Something else was missed in 1996, and it was taken over by the legislation of the former state to redecorate. It's an obligation of this law. So, in itself the initiative to clear this area, to edit, to give integral texts is very, very positive. The second thing that can be said positively about this law is that it has observed a number of remarks from the first reading, which is totally fine by the proposing, i.e. the competent ministry. Of course, the time will show whether we went forward in quality or stopped to develop protection at work. I claim that the social dialogue that was established in the Labour Protection Act in 2003, until then there was no working co-decision, was well-organised, that we had no problems in the pre-accession negotiations under this law. So we've already settled it in advance. Why? Because this area is related to the directives, in addition to the International Labour Organisation conventions and in most cases they are respected, perhaps with the exception of asbestos, etc., but quite respect is also given to the Conventions of the International Organisation and the Directive. So here it seems an easy task to solve the system, but it's not exactly like that. There's still a bit of a fight here. The dispute has the most because this law is not sufficiently reasoned. For neither the first nor the second reading, we had no indication of the situation from 1996 to 2008, from 2008 to today and related to these statistics, along with these indicators of what we want to achieve. So, of course what I said we'll have everything in one place, that it'll make it easier to work it stands but what we want to achieve in the quality of system functioning we haven't defined as a vision. I mean, we have the next situation, some of the rights that have been in greater scope now in the final proposal of the law are in a smaller scope. It's a social partners agreement and it's not about it. The ministry has in some way had its initiatives and its sightings which is fine, but I argue we will see in the future whether it will prove good or not. I do know, however, that in 2003 that much more rights were given to the workers' representatives, that social dialogue in the protection of work had been brought to life. It's been targeted. However, I have not received any assurance that it is too much, that someone has benefited from this position neither experts nor labour protection commissioners nor companies engaged in this activity. So there's a lot of information but there can be a lot of misinformation. So this area is very complex. It's not a purely technical activity, it's an interdisciplinary activity, and I say a lot of elements affect the functioning of this system. And one important element was mentioned by the minister in his address who was really missing in the work protection system, which is an active role in the medical work. And in any case, although no multidisciplinary teams were introduced as discussed in the first reading to address certain problems from the powers of protection at work. Still looking forward to returning medicine working in the very system of protection at work. Of course, I hope it won't be too much, but there is one place in the work protection system, which is actually the heart of protection at work. It is this board of protection at the work of the employer where the meeting place of all the structures involved in protection at work, which deal with prevention, which deal with the analysis of what has happened and which are dealing with the implementation of measures so that eventually what happened never happens again. So that heart of protection at work we have to guard and we have to actually improve it. In this respect, the Croatian Party of Pensioners has given and will give, or we have made and we will give one amendment that in this Article 34, the employer will include experts on specific areas in the work of the Committee in order to address specific protection issues. In particular, we think that we should make it a possibility, of course, it's always the possibility of an employer, but we can't move forward if we think it's understood at all. There are experts who evaluate and mobbing, and stress, and certain technical problems and I think it's good to include them. Since we have not provided multidisciplinary work teams, I appreciate that it would be good to do so in the heart of work protection, therefore in the Committee on Protection at Work. Of course, some peas, perhaps out of ignorance, might have written the law of people who really didn't work in production, there's a significant difference between time and work by effect, so we've intervened with the amendment to one of the illogicalities in the text. In fact, work by effect is a quantitative norm, whether it's a piece, a meter, a kilogram. Working by time is a time standard, one I say pays by piece, and another if I've done the job sooner or later than expected. One defines the whole business, one defines the particulars, and that's where we intervened. Of course, in Article 51, we try to correct the expression, which says that stress, one of the causes of stress, is bad communication. We claim that interpersonal relations is a broader concept that should be more appropriate expressions in Article 51 than bad communication. And of course we believe that in the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Retired People that, in relation to the rights for paid hours, the activities of the Commissioner of Protection at work is 2 hours too little, so we suggest that they be 3 hours. According to the Labour Act, members of staff members have six hours a week, members or commissioners of work protection staff may be selected more in view of the assessment of the harmfulness and dangers of a particular company. So, they've had 4 hours so far, reducing it just by double a little bit is a blow to, let's say to the labour commissioners because I think it's very difficult to organize it, that 2 hours a week can work and without the provision that he can possibly cumulate it a week, a month, that he can go to some professional training etc. I think it's too small, or at some meeting tied up or some stands on this subject, I think it's two hours too small. You ministers will decide whether it's acceptable for you or not, but we think it is. Yes, I do not know if there has been a failure on Article 80 since it is written in these labour medicine provisions, it says that in paragraph 1, we are asking that the word "Preserve supervision" be replaced by "Preserve specific health care" because it is not the role of medical work to monitor but simply, to assess all these risks and to ensure specific health care in terms of necessary checks to control the functionality of workers during work. What is difficult for us, or we can hardly accept, is the question that unions cannot appoint their commissioners unless workers choose them in the regular elections when members of the working council are elected. I don't think the possibility of appointing bothers anyone, and it's a good thing there's a work protection commissioner in every company, of course, if there's harmfulness and dangers. And I don't think it was meant to go to an end to that possibility because at least according to my information so far, it wasn't misused, but I would love it if the minister or anyone else had other information to say it. I know that the current text of the law has shown that these hours for work and these rights cannot be misused in terms of association for professionalization but that the aim of the Commissioner's hours is to benefit from work and improve protection at work at work, hence the appointment of Commissioners could always only be used to carry out his duty. But I allow the same questions to be considered differently. Also, something that caused a lot of controversy in the first reading. The HSU Club stands today at the view that up to 0.5 prominence is allowed in each blood activity and that this is not a domestic condition or can be attributed to alcoholism. Namely, if you don't believe it, read the encyclopaedic knowledge of it. From 0.5 promyl to 1.5 promyl is considered a domestic condition, from 1.5 promyl to 2.5 promyl is considered a drunk state, and from 2.5 to more is a difficult drunk state. We can't accept that someone who has 0.2 prominences can be declared an impertinent person, and I think there's going to be a lot of manipulation in the future. As in 1996, there have been attempts to avoid employers to recognise injury at work, only because of the new law and some provisions that were different from before, I think there will be as much avoidance here of recognition of injury at work by employers because they will interpret this provision "you've been drunk and I won't admit your injury to work", and it must be recognised because the insurance in case of an injury to work and the worker has the right to health care. Therefore, this story is unacceptable because it simply goes, cuts and human rights that someone who by no standard can be considered an adjective declares impervious. At the end of the day, people, reliable court practice declares people to be intoxicated in traffic only after 0.8, if you don't believe check, I checked and that's the line over which the damage is regressed from the one that was under that influence because only then is considered a domestic condition. We can be more Catholic than the Pope, but I think we're gonna complicate our lives and risk a lot of lawsuits. And finally to conclude. Of course, we're glad that this law at the debate, the club HSU, or the mood of the voting club, is going to be proportionate. by accepting the proposed amendments. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] I'm kidding, but I'm asking you to seriously consider these remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78417	We have a single replica reported. Dear Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78418	Dear colleague Hrelja, you better not joke about that subject. Both Minister Mrsic and you spoke about social dialogue. You are said to be more anxious in 2003 for the establishment of social dialogue, but I must remind you that just in 2003, the Social Democratic Government of Ivica Racan has passed a more restrictive law than that of 1995. One reason the Social Democrats lost power is because the law was passed at the end of Ivica Racan's term. Today, we would certainly be happy to accept all the 1995 Law of Labour. They're shrinking... I'm not talking about the Labour Act, I'm talking about protection at work, but you mentioned social dialogue, so let me rephrase it. We are talking about how much you as a former trade unionist today, I expected you to have a far-reaching, bile debate, far more advocates for labour rights, and even in this law, when you were talking about social dialogue, you know well that the social dialogue between this government and workers, or labour unions, does not exist, that the intention of making a fatal solution for workers, which is the Labour Act, and it would be perfectly normal if we had discussed the package today, and not to discuss the partial law on protection at work now, and later on, we will likely, this government will also pass that law that is contrary to the interests of workers and interests of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78419	The replica matches Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78420	Dear colleague Vuksic, I can tell you that I am extremely glad that you have set me up, or that you have raised your bat on the line. I mean, you know, there's something in life that needs to be tried. I was a negotiator on the side of the trade union in 2003 for this law when we incorporated the Protection Act into the work of social dialogue in the protection of work. It is not the same thing that social dialogue is bipartite and tripartite in the Labour Act. That's two different things. I mentioned to the speaker that here social dialogue is contained in the heart of protection at work, the place of meeting in the Committee on Protection at work and where all structures have to say their views and are forced to teamwork, that is, to agree. Perhaps your party of Croatian Labour will propose to amend and supplement the Labour Act that we may have one heart to work in the Company Labour Act to in some way force all participants to talk from business to state level. After all, you have nothing to object to, we said your position on social dialogue, you have also raised your hand for the proposed conclusion here in the Croatian Parliament, so we have no... Okay, you're not. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Okay. Okay. We will do nothing now, but it is well accepted here in the Croatian Parliament I hope you respect it as a decision of the Croatian Parliament or the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament. I, of course, will not glorify social dialogue in Croatia because I know that there is a lot, a lot of shortages, but I do not want to overshadow the debate on this very important law, the Law on protection of work, by speaking about general social dialogue in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78421	Thank you. The position of the SDP club will be expressed by a respected colleague of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78422	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are discussing the Law on Protection at Work in the Second Reading, and as a first reading, the SDP Club will support the adoption of this law. And at first reading, we all agreed that this was not a whole new law that we had not yet had and the problem it deals with, today covers 17, 18 years old, the Law on protection at work with a series of legal data, the rules with a series of amendments and additions in the meantime, and in that forest we welcome on behalf of the club, and we believe that the best decision was to write a new text of legislation that would be clear, understandable, comprehensive, in line with EU regulations in this area as well as the relevant practice of the Court of Justice and its interpretation of EU rules. This law removes us from believing and certain legal uncertainty that existed in the application of labour protection regulations, including their language and terminology inconsistencies and inconsistencies. The aim of the protection of work is to create safe working conditions to prevent injuries to work, occupational diseases and accidents at work, or to minimise possible adverse consequences if the hazard itself cannot be eliminated. During the past 2013 there have been 13,796 labour injuries from which, at the very place of work, 11.252, and others or approximately 18.5% of injuries occurred on the way from work or on the way to work. In Croatia, there is a trend and every year there is a decline in injuries, and as far as fatal injuries are concerned, they have been kept at the same level for some years. The analysis for the past year shows that the most injury occurs due to surface declines, less due to height declines, and it has been observed that employers do not meet the exact data on work injury and that I quote from the analysis "especially in the descriptive part of the application which makes it difficult to determine the actual facts of how there has been an injury at work". The full analysis suggests that the results obtained from the analysis indicate the need for better preventive measures to protect health and safety at work, given that labour injuries have a significant impact on the functional ability needed to carry out work and may lead to disability. We stress this especially because, as provided for in Article 80, we welcome the return of medical work to the world of work and want to emphasise once again the importance of a multidisciplinary approach. In our first reading, too, as a club related to the medical affairs of work and Article 81, we have in some ways pointed out the need to highlight this multidisciplinary approach in a way that will be clearly mentioned here and talk about a health protection and protection team at work. Well, given that this is not foreseen, we ask the minister to consider the possibility again, or perhaps it is particularly stressed somewhere else, and that we may have missed it. In particular, we also welcome the separation of part of the work from the existing Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work, i.e. the establishment of a Labour Protection Institute for the purpose of implementing technical and technological protection measures at work, and which is extremely important, for an effective prevention which is obviously carried out by the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work, does not have enough or, unlike the health aspect, is not given sufficient attention. We also think this time that it is also important to highlight the importance of editing and processing all data related to protection at work through the Central Central Data Processing System, which will be the job of this particular institution. And in this reading, we especially stress and welcome the provisions of Articles 51 and 52.zakon and are related to stress at work or in relation to work. Workplace stress is the 2nd most common health problem related to work. According to the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work, the proportions of workers' exposure to stress are enormous and show that the stress is 51% of European workers. It is important that 4 out of 10 workers state that the problem is not managed well in their working environment. In Croatia, the pre-quote analysis of the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work specifically points to the stress of shift and night work in employees and social care because in these activities, among other things, the largest number of injuries on arrival and departures. Among the two readings was one by myself not sufficiently highlighted on the date of work, safety at work, and this is the 28th of April World Work Protection Day, but it is also a national day in Croatia and the European Agency for Safety and Health has devoted its campaign for this and next year precisely to the topic of resource management in order to preserve and create healthy jobs. In fact, it is believed that today in Europe, with stress and psychosocial risks, it is responsible for more than half of the lost working days, and it is precisely this campaign that it wants to provide guidance in managing work-related stress. We at the club expect this to be also an incentive, because on several occasions and with the proposed law several years ago, we spoke specifically, so in the future this issue of stress, the issue of mutual, interpersonal relations, communication, pressure on workers, etc., is resolved through a special law. And I think we're here in accordance with what they're demanding and looking for associations. And I think at least in one part and unions, they're getting more and more prone to it today. So that's something that's waiting for us in the future, aware that it's also a multidisciplinary, multidisciplinary approach, but we expect more to be realized in some future. We at the SDP Club, unlike a colleague who spoke before me on behalf of the HSU Club, support the provisions of Articles 58 to 60. We are convinced that the provisions of these articles represent a step forward when it comes to fighting addiction and in general in our society. At the end of last year, at a conference dedicated to combating workplace addiction, it was reported that in the European Union, 25% of all labour injuries, job shortages and workplace conflicts were caused by drug and alcohol abuse. The prevention of addiction in the workplace respects individual freedoms but also rights, protects the rights of the employer but also achieves the safety of the work process. Regarding the remarks which, I would like to point out in particular, the SDP Club by the unions and union centres has not received any objections to the second reading of the Labour Protection Act. We received some of us as members of the Committee on Labour and Pensions, and I regret that on the very day that we held a committee session, which means two days ago. And regarding these union objections to the choice of commissioners, so which I define through Article 70, we at the SDP club support the proposed solutions under the law. We believe that the proposed way is for all workers and those who are and those who are not members of the union to have their own participation in the selection of labour protection commissioners has the opportunity to choose the person in whom we will have a lot of confidence. And we also believe that both the role and position of the elected commissioner rises to a higher level. We hope, then, that it will gain its seriousness and importance. And as has already been said in this way, of course, nothing prevents the unions from including themselves in the choice of the commissioner with their candidates. Here, I stress once again the SDP club will support the adoption of the Labour Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78423	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, the Honorable Representative Zlatko Tušak will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78424	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. When it comes to the Law on protection of work in the second reading, I will refer to that part of the opening statement of the minister who said that for a year he and the trade unions negotiated with the profession that this bill had taken place. True, we saw that in this second reading there were certain remarks and suggestions from both unions and professions, which means that certain things were not in line with the law itself, and some things remained practically hanging in the air. But what is most important when we talk about those years then the ministry if it has also negotiated and discussed with the trade unions but has not negotiated and respected the government programme of the Republic of Croatia that speaks of something else, which is a question of strengthening labour participation and the role of trade unions and introducing labour courts. Because it is in that part that certain objections are made to the Labour Protection Act itself, because in certain parts of the law, arbitration is introduced which has so far been resolved by the issue and by the judicial way and also by the part where I talk about labour participation then and the role of the union is reduced in the proposals of this law. And with certain solutions, it goes hand in hand to employers. The law on protection at work, we all agree that it's a very important law. He needs to protect workers at work and preserve their health. Last year about 13,000 and 800 injuries at work, statistics say it was reduced somewhere by 280 injuries at work. Now I'm asking myself if there's been a reduction in these work injuries as we have more effective and better protection at work or something else. Of course it came less because less is done, more fear among workers. We also have those, this is a situation where workers work for a certain period of time and experience injuries at work but are not willing to be reported as a work injury because they fear for their workplace and because somewhere around 80% of them have a work contract and they don't shut up and they won't in any way suffer the part if the injury at work is that they have 100 percent paid don't agree and that part. And they're just afraid because of their existence to even report these injuries to work. When it comes to stress at work, what was the previous talk clearly about is that he is one of the great reasons when certain injuries occur at work. And somewhere in the data, it's said that about 50% of the workers are experiencing stress at the workplace. And clearly, in such conditions and a certain concentration falls, and there are major injuries. When it comes to working and living conditions of everything somewhere 18% of the workers say they're good, and so a large part, 82% don't meet these working conditions. And when we accumulate that part of fatigue, stress, poor working conditions, when they accumulate, they clearly influence concentration and improve work injuries. And now I'm going to say something, and that's what we and certain amendments invest on, it's primarily about Article 43 that says that a working council or a union commissioner when it comes to monitoring cameras should give our consent if we know that in a lot of cases these cameras that should be used for safety at work are practically being monitored by individual workers, and that's why workers are in a very awkward situation, clearly under that impression when someone controls them or possibly when someone tells them that they are being controlled. And now in the law itself, the solution is that when a working council or a union does not give consent it is proposed that arbitration be introduced. I ask myself why arbitration, why there should be no possibility of both court and arbitration, and the court as a professional as an independent body in that part and it is necessary to reach its verdict whether certain rights are violated in that part, because we still believe that arbitration is not a sufficient solution and within that we have also made an amendment. And I am especially going back to the part where we say that the government of the Republic of Croatia's programme also stands and introduces and working courts and strengthens the judicial protection of workers, we are reducing these rights with this proposal. When it comes to Article 70, it is the choice of working protection commissioners, then clearly that we are unhappy with such a solution and that is why we have made an amendment in that part. Because this solution in some way suits employers and I will not agree with the SDP club that speaks of workers being able to choose their commissioners in a democratic way instead of unions. Yes, but in that section, if workers' meetings are called together, and workers' meetings under current legal provisions, unless a working council is elected, can only be convened by an employer. If the employer doesn't call workers' meetings, then there's no choice of safety commissioners at work. And that is why we offer an alternative solution in a way that if the employer did not call the workers' meeting then that the unions can appoint their labour protection commissioner, which means that in some ways, employers would be forced to call together and we have nothing against it, in which case they should choose a working protection commissioner because we believe that quality is to have as many protection commissioners as possible. The third amendment concerns Article 101, which is in the part where the elections for the working council were already held in the third and fourth months of this year. In addition to these elections for the working council, a lot has been chosen by the commissioner of protection at work. And we believe that this whole procedure should not be repeated by taking effect on this law, but rather by making it possible for these elected or appointed labour protection commissioners to continue to act on their duty until the end of the term of office, and then new elections to be made under the new rules of the Labour Act, which would be in some way both fairer and simpler, and to remain only obligations for those employers who employ less than 20 employees because they did not have the obligation to call together workers' meetings and appoint Commissioners to make them bound by the law. And if they don't call together then, the possibility is that union commissioners name their commissioners protection at work. And in the end, I'm going to look back at the question of zero alcohol spills. No matter what solution in the law... is but it is not good that one law allows certain rights, and by other law you deny those rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It creates certain uncertainty or we have such a practice that we have laws in line. It is not good that one ministry advocates when it comes to the Transport Safety Act that up to 0,5 prominence can be consumed, consumed under alcohol, and then clearly that it is considered that a person is not under the influence of alcohol while this other provision defends it and in some ways brings a part of the workers into a very awkward situation. For example, I can only say that the worker can be referred on the official road with his private car, when he returns from the official road in the meantime he could have had a glass of wine, stopped him and made an alcoholic, won't have a 0.5 promiscation and will not be punished in traffic but the employer found out that he had an example of 0.2% promiscation and therefore could fire him because he committed a certain violation according to the law. That's why we don't think these solutions are good. Either they need to be agreed on for legal and legislative certainty, so in one law and in another law, there should be 0 prominences, or 0.2 or 0.3, or at the end of the day, there should be 0.5 permeations. This is a matter of profession that needs to be given its position, but we are advocates of the fact that legislative solutions must be equal in all laws, not different from creating certain concerns and uncertainty when it comes to certain solutions. Croatian Labourists, depending on how the government will manifest itself on the amendments, will also act on the adoption or non-acceptation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78425	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first one came from the respected Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78426	Dear fellow Tušak, I would refer to this observation you made at the beginning of the debate, and it actually speaks enough about the intensity of this government actually in relation to workers, workers' rights and labour legislation. You said that this government, which Minister Mrsic initially pointed out, had been negotiating for a year with the social partners but did not do one thing to bring it into line with the interests of both workers and employers to find a common language, but did not comply with the government's programme. That's right. If we read both Plan 21 and the Government programme and remember what Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic said at the beginning of 2012 and also in the pre-election campaign, he said that some neoliberals want to change labour laws and reduce labour rights that the Kukuriku coalition does not even think about. We don't know what happened to the government programme or what happened to Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic that he changed his mind and is now the biggest advocate of changing exactly the working laws because he believes that the reduction of labour rights will bring Croatian economy to life and that Croatia's economy will recover on the back of workers. It won't take so long for this government to be so incompetent, there's no chance of recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78427	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78428	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague Vuksic, I will look back on what you said lastly, that by reducing the right, Croatian economy will not live in Croatia and will not live in Croatia to work without telling the citizens, it will be better. I mean, it's a false perception, and it's the mistakes of this government that she's made let it go to her soul, but we know and we see that from certain effects and the reduction of the rights that workers have experienced, starting with their receipts that the effects in the budget are no better because by reducing the purchasing power of citizens and spending less on clearly showing the results in the budget itself. And when it comes to social partnership, then it is clear that something else was written in Plan 21, something else is written in the Government programme, and something quite third is implemented and transposed into certain laws and offers as legal solutions. I think that's the worst, that it's not good and that it's not fair to those citizens who trusted this government and this Kukurik coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78429	The replica will be presented and honored by Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78430	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tušak, of course, we differ in attitudes with regard to the Labour Club, but I would just like to say about calling together workers. Therefore, the employer is also obliged under the Labour Act to convene a meeting of workers, and if not then the Labour Inspector is present and subject to criminal responsibility. You correct me and say that's not true. On the other hand, I will repeat the club's position once again, we believe that the proposed way is in line with the democratic procedure, that workers have the opportunity and the right to choose a labour protection commissioner, one in whom they will have full confidence whether they are members of the union or not. But besides that, I also said on behalf of the club, such a choice by the commissioners does not prevent any union from pointing out its candidate in the election process.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78431	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78432	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Sobol, unfortunately, I have to say you're wrong and you're not telling the truth. The labour law stipulates that the employer should call together workers but does not stand anywhere in the violation provisions unless he does so to be sanctioned. Which means he can do it and doesn't have to do it. Take a look at it and read the infractions it says in, and tell me which, if it does not, what punishment is for the employer. We know from the practice that employers don't do it, no employer has ever misrepresented that part. So please speak with arguments, not with something that doesn't scream in the current law. Whether it will be written in the new Labour Act, so it will be, we can talk about it when the new Labour Act comes here to Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78433	Its replica is now Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78434	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So you spoke about work injuries as well as predecessors, and surely you deserve injuries to work with special attention in view of the consequences that come after the injuries, of course for the costs of treatment and rehabilitation. And in that part, every effort is welcome. Of course, from improving the working environment to all other measures. But what is indicative of what you've been saying, how many injuries have been reduced, has reduced the number of injuries and I agree in that part with you that one of the reasons for sure is this where many simply out of fear of losing a job don't log in and simply approach it in another way. But there's another moment that happens also rarely, that the chosen doctor reports this injury at work, and after 2.3 months, until this one comes after a certain time, the injury at work is not recognised. Of course, during that time and comes naturally to the other part of the moment to stress, there is stress to every person in the working environment who cares about his workplace, but there is stress for a doctor, a doctor who does it, who is constantly under arrest not to exceed that rate of illness, the rate of sickness. The work itself, is medical, stress, working under difficult conditions and constantly exerting some pressure, and on the other hand they are called any names, that they are non-workers, such or such. Now, you see, there's this part that needs to be emphasized in view of this profession that's often under stress and work, and it's exposed to these circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78435	Replication response, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78436	Thank you. Well, colleague Milinkovic, I totally agree with you when it comes to stress at work. Clearly, doctors are workers, and they live very much under great stress, acting their responsibility, but I will look back at that part of the worker that I said and in my speech, and that is what those who work for a certain time are. They're under the greatest stress, if they don't know what's waiting for them tomorrow, if they're going to lose their jobs, whether they're going to keep working, even though this thing happens to them and some kind of injury at work, or want to report it, sick people come to work all to ensure their own existence and family. These are the problems that live in this society, people under great stress and clearly under such great stress is enough and a little carelessness, enough is also a small accident, can happen or that a colleague at work gets hurt or that the worker himself gets hurt. Of course, it has its own repercussions, and what you said about it costs quite a lot and the employer it certainly costs this country through treatment. And clearly that preventions in protection at work, but when we talk about stress it's a special topic, it's very important and related to injuries at work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78437	The last line will be presented by the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78438	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tušak, on several occasions you said that this law goes hand in hand to the employer, and then we read articles 95, 97, 98, 100 that determine penalties from 10 to 120 thousand kuna to those same employers. I've had 20 conversations with small entrepreneurs these days, and they all say they simply need a discharge from bureaucratic accusations and problems that they are faced with and these obstacles they are facing, because it's very choking them. The employer needs a worker, the worker needs an employer. The worker should be protected, but it is certain that the employer should also be protected, and therefore I, in this part of the law, do not see exactly what you see, and I do not agree that this law goes hand in hand to employers, I do not agree with the fact that there should be opposition, conflict between employers and workers because one without another can definitely not function, the state cannot develop. It is not good for me to send such messages as should in some way be repressive or even more repressive towards employers, I repeat especially to those small and medium.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78439	In reply to Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78440	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Hrg, I wouldn't agree with you, I would disagree with you when I speak then and the arguments I serve, and in one part I agree with you that fines are large per 100,000 kuna, but you must read the last items inside of it, and this says: "The fines are pronounced at the scene of the violation of the authorised person in the amount of 14 900 kuna, and the authorised and responsible person, the legal person in the amount of 1900 kuna." What does that mean? On the spot if the employer pays for it are much less fines, so I don't think employers are so punished about certain penalties prescribed by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78441	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDSS Club, the esteemed Mile Horvat will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78442	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ministry representatives, I see Mr. Minister is here, probably coming back. We are extremely pleased that, in the first and second readings, there was a minister present as the main promoter of this legal text, it is not a very common opportunity and we do not have, therefore, the honor of each time to have a minister who will explain his suggestions to us. I also have to say, and that's what I said at the first reading, we, in front of the SDSS Club, greatly appreciate the applicant's efforts to modify the existing problem of the protection of workers at work, but I also think that a good debate on the Labour Act should have been preceded as a fundamental act from which this matter comes. And paraphrasing one of my colleagues who says we're passing the Labour Protection Act, not letting people work and let them stay on it. Of course, we are all interested in improving this text and making this matter as regulated in EU countries, in countries with developed labour market and labour protection as a high standard. That is why we think, since the main addresses of this legal text are employees and their employers, we think that this legal text should be made clear above all, should be understood and should be comprehensive in order not to improvise in the interpretation of these provisions. Improvisation and by the employer what happens often, improvisation by both users and workers. It is explained that this law is in line with the EU's 5 directives, since 19, and that may be right, I do not go into reasons, but what matters to us is that we also think that undermining national legislation and priorities under the EU directive should not be at the expense of users, or at least the level of law that is found, and that is what we want to point out when the directives apply to... legislation. Some data suggest that the number of injuries to the work of patients with professional illnesses and the damage caused since '99. By 2011, there were about 138 thousand injuries at work, so that's what's been recorded. Some 2112 professional diseases were diagnosed and unfortunately 734 workers died during that period. All this, estimated by international organisations, creates a total cost in the country's budget of around 12 billion kuna. According to some provisions of specialised EU organisations, which say that if losses caused by work injuries and occupational diseases are equal to or greater than 2% of GDP, the prevention system is not functioning. Therefore, it is considered inefficient and needs to be unsustainablely improved. It's some kind of general thinking. Now I'm going to do something about the very nomoch of this legal text, in the second reading. So in the first reading we had a series of remarks, some remarks were accepted, some were not quite accepted, I would comment on them. Of course, in the desire that if we can contribute to improve this text in quality. Article 6 defines the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the formation of the National Council, we felt that the National Council was not well structured, so we see that this article increased the number of members of the National Council from 5 to 7 where it was made by the Head of the Office and 2 representatives of the Ministry, 2 employers and 2 workers. Perhaps it is even a good structure, but we think that from the quota of the ministry's representatives should be appointed an expert from the powers of protection at work, therefore, it is a very important thing and we think that this should be defined in particular in this article. In Article 20, where it was agreed to do job protection work, we, it was a very important observation for us, we still felt that the previous definition of where an employer who employs more than 50 workers could choose someone, also contract a work protection company outside, so on. outsourcing. We see that our remarks have been partially adopted, that this quota has been reduced to 49 workers, but we still think that this could have been arranged differently because the EU Council Directives number 89, does not distinguish the size of employers when contracting external services to provide protection at work. What's good, we see that here is the part that gives us the opportunity to make a deal with an authorised person outside that company, so now a small employer has to hire a work protection expert, so this suggestion has somehow yielded some kind of a fruit. In Article 25, the most important article for us is defined work injuries and the employer's objective responsibility for these work injuries has been defined, so it is said that work injuries and professional illness are elements of the employer's objective responsibility. We believe that a third component should be added here, and this is a work-related disease because work-related illness may be, therefore, the harmfulness of the workplace itself with some other cause may later lead to the occurrence of the disease or the deterioration of the condition of the health, i.e. to the deterioration of the disease itself, which is so called. crawling health damage that can drag the entire working life and lead to disability at the end of the working life. This means that at the end of our working life, we need to be in a way and protected and compensated so that we will most likely submit an amendment to Article 25 and ask that, in addition to injuries to work and occupational diseases, work-related illnesses as an element of the employer's objective responsibility. We understand why it is not in the interests of employers because the work-related disease is a very broad term and exposes the employer of course to a much greater risk than it has ever been. In Article 43, where supervisory devices are defined as means of protection at work, it is said that it is defined here, or an arbitration decision is imposed if the working council or trade union trusts deny its consent. So it's nothing like an arbitration instrument is already a well-known thing, but we think that the notion of arbitration here is not defined to the end, that in the composition of this article it should have been defined to the end because arbitration has its own costs, arbitration has its own methodology of work, etc., etc. I think a better quality article would be if the arbitration institute were to be better defined in this article. In Article 51, colleagues spoke, we are all pleased that it is particularly defined stress although it is a relative thing what stress means when everyone is insecure, when jobs are insecure when cancellations are more certain than staying at work, but well he is here and has a special place. We also think that our special place in article 51 was supposed to have a mobing, we should have defined it. It will probably be defined by some other regulation, but I see no reason why it is not included in this group of risky phenomena and mobing and why it is not more clearly regulated here. As counterpart Hrelja said in Article 58 in paragraph 3.phase 0.0 alcohol, we are co-signatures of their amendment because we believe it should be changed. So that cemented zero needs to be loosed somehow for a number of reasons. Some countries of the West like Italy have a habit of even propagating a wine-drinking culture after lunch or another drink, but it's mostly wine because they have a strong wine sector like we do. Well, then if we're looking for such a strong wine sector as we can and the priors cement something and say 0.0 alcohol, every glass over it is a risk zone or privilege to the employer where the employer can tell in case of an accident not you've had a glass of wine and I don't have any more responsibility for the damages in these expensive court proceedings, etc. I don't think that's necessary. I think one normal approach is quite acceptable. If we're already talking about the legalization of easy drugs where someone can come in a slightly sniffed-out job, which makes his variant more acceptable than anyone who's going to drink a glass of black wine after lunch. So we're going to join in supporting this amendment to correct item 3 and model 0.0 milligrams, let's say 0.45 or I don't know what the waist says. This Regulation shall enter Labour protection commissioner, a very important thing for us from the election of the commissioners of modality has been corrected, however, the union is still not involved. We think we should include this union component in the process of selecting working protection commissioners. After all, the working council according to its logic things are existential to the employer and I do not prejudge that there is no doubt of their reality, but it often happens that precisely because of this relationship with the employer of the working councils are not objective and often work on the orders of the employer. That is why there is a union instrument, or a social partner, which is, in its essence, the best representative and protector of labour rights. And I don't see why the union is absolutely excluded from this component when it comes to the appointment of safety commissioners as the main factor in this whole as the main instrument in this whole legislative solution. This Regulation shall enter It's the council of institutes, where we've had objections to the very composition, that we see that the administrative council is reduced to five members. I still see that the workers are sub-represented in the composition of the administrative council, and of course the ministry has its two representatives. I don't see the need for the ministry to have its two representatives in such an institution as the administrative board of institutes. This Regulation shall enter The transitional and final provisions continue to feel that the 90-day deadlines for the adoption of sublegal implementing acts are too long. They are too long by their 90-day definition, and when we know from the practice of some habits to extend these 90-days, the question arises when we are going to develop or revive the implementation of this new Labour Protection Act. So I think the deadlines should set themselves shorter deadlines, more appropriate deadlines for the adoption of implementing acts to implement this law. All in all, we realize that this may not be the most ideal form of protection at work, but the fact is that it is better, the fact is that the promoter has made a certain effort to correct them in accordance with some circumstances of today's time and we have no reason not to support this initiative as a club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78443	Thank you. Two replicas have been reported. First, it will be replicated by the esteemed Branko HRg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78444	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Horvath, this is not a paraphras to pass the Law on protection of work and not to allow people to work, it is unfortunately our truth. And now we could say that it has nothing to do with this law because it's about other things. It has to do with the work of the government, of course, because it's obvious that the ministries that should have taken care of this first to make people work are behind the ministry proposed by the Labour Protection Act, which is fine with this ministry proposing it. But the truth is that we also have articles in this law that will lead to small twists, small businesses throwing themselves on their knees and stopping working. And then I ask the question where are those people that we are now protecting with this law in that situation. So we didn't sow the grain and we want to harvest it. This is a problem in Croatia, and it is something that happens all the time that the ministries that should enable employment, create a business climate, develop the economic sector, are late in their business while some other ministries are doing their job, so according to plan and programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78445	It's Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78446	I'd like to thank my colleague, Hrg. So this paraphrase can really be a picture of some state of today's economy but it's not now, we can't bring the problem of this law under that unfortunately powerful paraphras. However, I think we really should have passed a quality Labour Act before then, so we would have seen from the institutes that we defined in that law how we would then pass this other law and that is the one that is today the subject of the debate. So, the quality of the Labour Law Institute depends, in any case, on the implementation of these legal provisions and solutions and, in any case, depends on what you said whether the small businessmen will be on their knees or they will survive this crisis that is now at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78447	Second replica and respected Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78448	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's a colleague I'm going to look back in my replica at the part that you were saying on behalf of the club and about whether or not to completely ban the use of alcohol at the workplace or allow 0.2, 0.3, 0.5, 1 or not. This is what I'm counting because obviously the influence of alcohol on individuals is actually very different, to someone that one glass of wine that you stand for can take a life to say, or lose a part of the body or something like that. And maybe five or ten glasses of wine won't do it. I also reported that among other things in this replica, I would warn myself about the problem of alcoholism, alcohol consumption in Croatia, to warn that we do not have in Croatia, unlike many other countries, a national strategy for combating alcoholism because we are constantly talking about ourselves as a nation that cultivates a wine-drinking culture and we know very well that we do not. If I'm not mistaken just a few days ago, it was a day of fight against alcoholism, and it's estimated today, because obviously we don't even have the right numbers, and in Croatia we have between 200 and 240 thousand people with alcohol problems, alcoholism. So I would also like this debate about this law to be an incentive for all of us to think about it. Consider the fact that in Croatia, according to data from 2008 and 2009 more people have problems with alcohol, more alcoholics are registered than drug addicts. We've got more and that's the part we're neglecting. And I also advocate on behalf of the SDP club to leave this 0,0 promo provision. And that's one contribution to the fight against alcoholism.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78449	The replica matches Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78450	Dear fellow Sobol, I don't know if we got it figured out. So I didn't say yes, nor did I advocate alcoholism. So alcoholism is one, I guess one and a sociological and medical term, and I guess the alcoholic is the one that has over 1% alcohol, which is a sick addict, etc. I'm here to say that the provision introduced is so restrictive that it absolutely forbids someone who may have come to work during the morning after lunch to drink a glass of wine and works on the afternoon shift. So that's what I'm talking about. I also see here, it's perfectly normal to stop the consumption of alcoholic beverages at work. Well, no one's expecting it. No one's saying it's okay to drink alcohol at work. No one's thinking about it. But you can't tell me that an alcoholic is the one who drinks a glass of wine and comes from the cafeteria comes to work and keeps working. That's what we're talking about. Because it's defined here that the worker will be considered to be under the influence of alcohol if there's more than 0.0% of alcohol in the blood. So he drinks a glass of wine after lunch, every Italian is under the influence of alcohol because they all drink a glass of wine after lunch and that's culture. ......... Absolutely, he comes to work, drinks during the marenda. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, I've seen it, what it's about. At the same time in Sweden if someone is under the influence of alcohol without sanctions instructs him home to rest and do the job tomorrow. So these are some cultures that are obviously not very acceptable to us and we blindly stick to something restrictive, 0.0 alcohol, otherwise you're in trouble. And I think that provision exclusively goes hand in hand to employers because it excludes their future responsibility for anything that happens clumsyly, a clumsy worker happens in the work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78451	The word is now being reported by Labour and Pension System Minister, respected Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78452	Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. I'm sorry that we're here talking about 0.0 of the promiscuous, 0.5 of the promiscuous, because I don't think that's the intensity of this law. So, the intensity of this law is the protection of workers and safety at work and I think we should focus on what this law brings better. But let's get 0.5 or 0.0 clear. What I absolutely agree with Agent Sobol that 0.5 does not mean anything to someone, and for someone it means drunkenness because alcohol tolerance is extremely heterogeneous and depends on man himself, depends on the body, depends on the amount of alcoholic dehydrogenase, so in certain races, so you have even a lack of alcoholic dehydrogenase which then one drink automatically leads to drunkenness. Therefore, our goal is for the workplace to be a job without alcohol and that that culture that was a long time ago, that it is allowed to drink two, three cups so that it works better, that at lunchtime, instead of having a glass of alcohol. Especially in construction, we know it's happening. We also have fatalities due to this and precisely because of these deaths where one of the causes is a greater consumption of alcohol we think it is very clear that it should be put into law that 0.0 has passed. Clearly, no one will get fired from it, so no one will get fired by having been determined that day that he has an illicit amount of alcohol, so that he is alcoholized, but simply that day will not work, the second day will come and he will work normally. On the other hand, mentioning the Transport Safety Act and comparing it with this law is inappropriate because these are two completely different laws on the other hand and in the Transport Safety Act of those people who work, and these are drivers, for example, or drivers of heavy machines for them, it is very clear that during the time they drive the bus, the truck must have 0.0 proms. Therefore, it is very clear that both our position and ours should be clarified forever at this point. Because in the previous definition, how she stood by the law could have been manipulations and abuses by employers themselves, but also by workers. Therefore, our position is very clear and very much what I am quite sure that with this provision of the law we will prevent certain things from happening that should not happen. Whether someone with zero-five spilled alcohol is drunk or not an individual thing. But for example, when you're working with a press that presses a few tons, I wouldn't want anyone to lose a hand because they had one bottle of beer, and they didn't have to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78453	Two replicas, three replicas. First Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78454	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I'm the last person to say a positive word about... but there is a need to worry about harmonisation of regulations and legal frameworks in all activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How do you explain that someone who works in an office or on a port registers entry and exits and is controlled and, say, drank a glass of beer, will show him maybe 0.1, 0.2. He's under this law in a state of alcohol. He'll be punished. He'll sit in the car after that, drive home, get a cop to stop him. Maybe in the meantime, he'll stop by and have another beer, so he'll show him 0.5 or 0.6 and the cop says thank you very much, goodbye you haven't committed a crime. We have to worry about these things. When it comes to working protection, it's not the same to sit in an office or a crane a hundred feet high. And they should not be the same rules for different and conflicting different activities, extremely conflicting. And if someone's drunk or not at 0.5, that's really dubious. But the most dangerous alcohol is in traffic, the most dangerous and the most life threatening not only its own, but most people's lives are being threatened. And that's where we let 0.5, and where there's less threat, we don't allow it at all. I'm only talking about this proportionality, and I don't want to say that alcohol is good to use and consume during work at all, but during driving it's the most dangerous and we tolerate both phones and alcohol which is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78455	Minister Miranda Mrsic answers on the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78456	Discrimination of jobs for which 0.5 would be allowed and for which it would not be allowed is impossible. When we talk about work that isn't exposed to danger, so someone who doesn't climb a crane crane to 50 meters and more. And what about the man who works at the nuclear power plant standing in front of the screen and his finger can cause a nuclear disaster or not because we're going to allow him 0.5. Are we going to let that porter or the person who is in touch with the citizens and who is talking to the citizens whether or not we're going to let him be drunk while he talks to people? Therefore, it is impossible to discriminate on jobs by which it would be allowed in quotes and illegal. We absolutely believe that alcohol use should be prohibited in the workplace and that it should come with 0.0 promilas in the workplace.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78457	Second replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78458	Thank you very much. Well, it's part of Mr. Maric's replica that's part of my line. But what I was about to say is that the legislation is completely different and that according to the law, for example. We're talking about wine now, we know somewhere is wine in terms of some kind of drinking culture, etc., but we're talking about beer as a food product. And a beer tax is as tax as a margarine or I don't know what. So beer as a food product, and it exists in some parts and a beer-drinking culture. We know, Croatia is very diverse, north, south and continental and Adriatic, so that, as already said here, it is really not any discrimination in some activities and implement these 0.0 promiscations. Those activities in which it is really risky to say a drop of alcohol but in other professions, so it is not discrimination at all, it is reasonable thinking to count professions and jobs where you really can't drink. For example, this craneist, etc., who works on heights and on which the lives of workers and who work on land in construction depend. And about the fact that there are different records and injuries at work, and therefore by dividing into sectors of the economy and that there are more accidents in public and public services and in health care services, there are more accidents at work due to the fall or collisions with an object or the fall of an object, I will speak about it in my speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78459	The last replica, dear Mille Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78460	Thank you. Mr. Minister, we certainly did not want to put this as a dominant topic of debate over this law, but it is very interesting for both us and the public probably and somewhat intriguing 0.0 alcohol, and so on. As my colleague Hrelja last told us that it is necessary for someone to drink at certain jobs to be dehydrated for a certain amount of beer. I didn't know that, and that's when I started thinking about it. But I fully agree with my colleague Grubisic that perhaps we should have made one nomenclature of extremely dangerous occupations where your provision is acceptable. We also have some occupations, and you've universally put it on no one, that's what it's all about. And then let's not have a glass of wine after lunch. That's right, interpreting strictly this provision then that's it. It might be more acceptable if you had worked out a few more aliases and said, "I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. It would be a much better quality solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78461	Replication response, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78462	So when we talk about 0.0, it's clear that it's interesting for the citizens and for everyone who thinks about it, but I'm still saying 0.0 if someone is found to have more than 0.0, it doesn't mean that they're fired. So there are no sanctions. So that day will not be able to work at its workplace, he will go home and sober up. Therefore, there is no problem with that, so that we do not alarm people with this provision of the law. Unfortunately, we can't discriminate with professions or fortunately say here for these we allow you to drink a cup or not drink. And as for rehydration and the fact that someone who works in glass, say, glass blowers that we in Croatia are chronically missing, rehydration can be done with soft beer. Therefore, there is no problem with rehydration at all. I don't see any reason for us to let things go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78463	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HNS club, a respected representative, Petar Baranovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78464	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS Club several comments on this law, and centrally of course we will relate to this topic which has now raised a little atmosphere in the assembly. It's a united text of the law that had its predecessor in the '96 Law. A year. Since '96. To date, 7 novels, more than 50 sublegal acts, and, of course, in the woods of these regulations, it was very difficult to define certain situations legally. And it was perfectly logical that it went into the creation of a unified text, and it was also necessary to update some of the news that changed the technology of principles and methods of working in certain professions brought about over the past 18 years. This law defines the rights and obligations of workers, the rights and obligations of workers at work, the rights and obligations of employers. Clearly, it also prescribes the obligation of employers to reduce the risk to workers at work, to the greatest extent possible, when designing themselves or setting up a business process. What also makes us happy is that, in our opinion, the role of medicine is now set in a much more correct way. The polarity has risen around Article 58 and norms 0,0. I can understand the good intentions of a supporter of such a solution and the minister himself to prevent and reduce any risk for a worker in the workplace and I can even understand that on the first arguments of Sobol, is that theoretically when you look at it very well, we will give our pain to the fight against alcoholism. However, they cannot in any way remember the reference to the presentation of fellow fellow Sobol scenes from those American films that describe the age of 30, the time of prohibition and the time of the greatest drunkenness in the United States. Equally, when laws are passed in this high home, I think it should be principled, very clear, so I'm going to ask an open question about what a job is and how to define a job for a minister or what is meant as a job as a parliamentary representative? What is the working time of the minister, which is the working time of the parliamentary representative, and whether it means that in future after the entry into force of this law in the Assembly restaurant, Faust and Grasvina will no longer be allowed to pour, and even then a symbolic glass in the lunch break, is that if we drink that glass in the lunch break when we return to the assembly, especially if you drink Sibenik Faust, when we return to the meeting at 3:00 a.m., we will have every 0.1. What's the seriousness of our job? It should be the biggest because we are passing all the laws, laws that regulate the processes in which the worker is exposed to dangers, laws that actually pave the way for the fate of this nation, which define the conditions of life and work of an ordinary man, workers, professors, who define the national security of this country. How many such laws, ladies and gentlemen, were brought honestly in a situation where many who had 0.2 in their blood spoke much smarter than those who had 0.0. exclusivity is never a good friend especially when such actions are done, such as the adoption of the Labour Law. A merchant ship under the Croatian flag under the International Maritime Law is an integral part of the territory of the country whose flag of the council, in particular, ships under the Croatian flag are part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Work schedules according to international regulations that regulate the safety of sailors on board and how to work with 8 hours break, 4 now guard, 8 hours break, 4 hours guard, sail from the River for large lakes, for about a month without seeing land. Does that mean that the one who came out of the guard and had lunch after a few hours can't drink 0.33 small beers behind the steak or a glass of wine behind the boat and come back to the guard or even what the definition of the seafarer's job is, is that the four-hour guard, or is that his place of business a merchant ship? The fishing boat, back to the territorial waters, 2 days and 2 nights in Palagreža, has no schedule per guard definitely the workplace of a professional fisherman in the Republic of Croatia is his fishing boat from day to day, the moment of departure until the moment of sailing. It could be 1 day, 2 days, 3 days, when you're looking for tuna can be 15 days. Because somebody really thinks 15 days on a fishing boat a fisherman shouldn't drink a glass of wine out of a bra? We go to extremes, why I say extremes, because up to now in the 20 years of the state that we think is legally arranged, never in my 20-year career has anyone come up with a trainer to measure the amount of alcohol in the professional fisherman's blood. The Librarian, the Librarian, works in the second shift, works from early morning to late night in large cities of the library about the second shift starts hypothetically at 3:00 p.m. At 2:00 a.m., what did he eat at home, go to work every day except for the weekend, does that mean he's not allowed to drink the gemist? The practice we introduce, if we close all the wineries in Croatia, whether we close all breweries, where we go and where we even tend to be for special occupations by internal acts by the employer himself in agreement with workers, or at the moment the worker enters a working relationship in places that have special risk can and should be prescribed 0.0, the pilot cannot enter if there is no 0.0, the driver of the truck can not go to the wheel if there is no 0.0, the worker in the nuclear power plant can not be behind the counter if there is no 0.0. But these are rare professional groups that are really at risk and that is, a surgeon, and that is justified. However, to prescribe for a million employees such a standard every working day de facto every working day is subject to various conjectures, especially if it insists on this, then I consider myself to be a parliamentary representative that I will insist that this applies not only to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but also to the Croatian officials sitting in ministries, government and the Croatian Parliament. In any case, the Croatian People's Party club will support this law, but we expect to look the reality and truth into the subject of amendments submitted by SDSS, HSU and HNS clubs, and to be tolerated, flexible, rational and responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78465	We've got two lines reported. First is the respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78466	Comrade Baranovic, you mentioned jobs, where is the job of the parliamentary representative? Well, it's not all the same, to the one whose working relationship in the assembly is probably a workplace here, but to the mayor of some municipalities, city or mayor of some municipality is a job there. And now imagine the official delegation being accepted, here we have lunch at the Parliament, after lunch is necessarily a glass of wine, which I am not allowed to drink but this one who is the head of the municipality, and the parliamentary representative he laughs. Because it's not his job. Discrimination. Well, the Prime Minister drinks every day at work, he has to. It's not easy for him. In Parliament, there's no day to not drink. There is no day in the House not to smoke, and he says there must be no discrimination to work, and here in this law it says extremely that it can be smoked in some rooms. Well, if there's no discrimination, there's no smoking, but it's an exceptional way to do it, but it's an extraordinary drink nobody can drink. Equipped high and most risky jobs with... jobs such as some job at home, sitting alone at home and writing a column and not drinking. And imagine this absurdity, and we don't involve these absurdities in common sense, and we don't think about it a little bit. Well, most of these days at home is a job, there's a lot of journalists or some occupations. Someone owns an employer, has two employees perhaps in the family, but can't drink under this law. He comes home and someone's gonna forbid him. He's not jeopardizing anyone, he's not going anywhere. And the driver, he says, is not discriminated against. How can a professional driver not? and the delivery guy can. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] We've got as much discrimination as you want, if it's just...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78467	Second replica, the esteemed Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78468	Dear counterpart Baranovic, I agree with this part of your debate, mostly the whole debate, especially with this part when you were talking about alcohol, discrimination, hypocrisy, especially the hypocrisy of those who prescribe such regulations in this law. Now, Mr. Marelic said that the president has to drink every day. I think they must drink citizens to bear Mr Milanovic and this authority, they must drink. How come no one raised their voice? Let's say Minister Mrsic was supposed to raise his voice when the second minister, his fellow 7 bozos in Split, was listed by seven bozos during lunch. In Split, the mayor of Split, Hajdas Doncic, and I don't know who, seven of the assholes were there, and no one was surprised, and after that he made some decisions. What's that? Drunk? Now, when I last said it was unimaginable that those who work all day at 35, 40 degrees, so the builders, the builders, the builders, not to drink beer, I was crucified in the media. But Hejdas Doncic was not crucified in the media, nor did the mayor of Split, only who paid for it, and that they made drunk decisions, no one did, he didn't count on it. This is hypocritical, not only discriminatory. And secondly, what you were saying, someone used to talk about drivers. A professional can't drink, but 0.5 we allow a man who's sitting behind a wheel to crash a bus and he'll kill 30 people. But it's nothing, it can, it's allowed. So, let's not think about it, and let's not think about it, one former president would say, who's drunk enough to hold on to this because alcohol isn't the biggest enemy, I said before, I have a lot of bigger enemies, even among those who don't drink.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78469	The replica corresponds to the respected Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78470	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Vuksic, you are right when you say that bad things do not need to be caused by alcohol, bad exposure, bad findings or bad actions. I don't know exactly where you get the motivation to label people in this way, call them in the Croatian Parliament, but it is your decision anyway. As for the rest of the replica, nothing has been said that wasn't this morning but on the agenda, so I'm done with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78471	On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected Milan Jurkovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78472	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary with the Deputy. It seems that article 58 of this extremely important law is one of the most interesting. I will return to it, and I support it on my own behalf, not on behalf of the club because I have no position, Mr. Baranovic's amendment, and now I've got the other three parties. So, protection at work concerns every worker, but it does concern us in this highly respected House, because this law that is before us needs to be dealt with in the most optimal way by this very, very important issue of protection at work. But unfortunately only every third resident of the Republic of Croatia who is employed today is a very important topic, but it is a good thing that this law is so complete, Mr. Minister, after 17 or 18 years, after so many changes, came before representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The main objective of this law must be how to reduce the number of injuries to work, how to reduce the number of professional illnesses. The proposal for a law on protection at work, looking at it from the perspective of this assembly, may look like another attempt by the state administration to pass another law more, but it's not and I hope it won't. Who worked in production, and I see from the debates so far that the good part of colleagues and colleagues is very well aware of how often accidents happen, and with extremely severe consequences for employees' health, and then their families and the wider social community. During his first reading, Minister Mrsic presented alarming data on the number of labour injuries in the past 10 or 11 years, unfortunately every four workers suffered a certain injury to the number of patients and as many as 734 killed workers. Unfortunately, these data are more than points such as and true that most of these accidents, accidents occur or occur in production plants, construction sites, shipyards in the exploitation of forest mass, sawmills and similar occupations where such accidents occur far more often than by offices or offices. You believe and unfortunately most of you probably know that it's not easy or easy when a colleague or a friend at work machine rips off your arm, leg, or God forbid it dies. And therefore, in my opinion, this law must personally protect workers, workers and workers who are in such working environments where the possibility of injury is unfortunately a reality with due respect for the home service and I ask that I am not misunderstood. It is not any discriminatory thinking, save God, but I am not inclined to believe in any research that proves that domestic risks are at the same level as risks in production and in production activities, but that in this activity too, systematic prevention and enforcement of protection measures are required, we all agree. Therefore, it is not clear to me, Mr. Minister, that I do not accept the objection to the proposal of the Law on protection of the work of the centralities of these 4 unions, which primarily through their proposals and observations protect employees or workers, and these remarks we all get from respected colleagues and colleagues, all representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Both I and the HDZ Club support union proposals, and I don't view it as any kind of politics or submission, especially as regards the 70th election of commissioners, and I fully agree with the union's views, regardless of what Mr. Minister thinks, and the truth is that not all employees are members of the union. It is an undisputed truth, as is true that only organised associations such as the union can in the right and best way and most effective way to protect the rights of workers from which you, Mr. Minister, seem to escape. So starting from the very prevention that is relatively well resolved in Article 11 of the Law, and here it must be worth that folk's "Better Prevent than Treat". As much as employers and not being misunderstood, I'm not just protecting workers, and I need to protect employers. But as expensive as it may seem to employers, and sometimes unnecessary investment in protection from protective equipment to adapting to technical achievements, it turns out to be the best option, so if you want the cheapest one, we all probably agree that life and health don't have a price. Article 39 regulates protection on the work of pregnant women, workers who have recently given birth and who are breast-feeding. This is a particularly sensitive category of workers who, through law itself and through law enforcement, must be particularly protected. But we are witnessing from our everyday surroundings that it is not, in principle, the honor of exceptions but exceptions only confirm the rule. That pregnant women and young mothers are burdened with their employers and that they are treated mostly as the necessary evil that needs to be solved as soon as possible, rather than creating more favourable and normal working conditions. Article 83 shall regulate the establishment of the responsibilities of the labour protection body as an implementing body in the field of protection at work. One new institution at the expense of the state budget. The reason that there will only be redistribution of funds from the position of the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work does not seem to be realistic and does not hold water. I would like time to be denied, but unfortunately so far experience with too many state agencies and institutions has once again not generally warned that it can only be done to further employ similar party listeners, new offices, new cars, mobiles and the like, and all on the burden of the budget, or of the citizens of the Republic. On the proposal of this law, we have received much too many remarks from the Security High School Association, whose proposals we can generally agree with, but should give them the recognition of the effort to further improve this important law from the field of protection at work. Finally, the transitional and final provisions of this Act, without implementing rules, do not guarantee the enforceability of the law in the required scope, without undue delay and it is necessary to implement it immediately. And for a little while, let me look back at Article 58. I don't advocate, so this is my personal opinion, I don't advocate drinking, consumption, but I advocate the same conditions for everyone. Certain production professions so they wanted to admit it to me or not primarily from construction where working hours are not 8 hours but in seasons 10 and 12 and 14, not only out of habit but you believe out of need and out of a way and demand or a bottle of beer, it can be a bit or a gemist. And I'm not gonna say it's normal, but in such a working environment, it's perfectly normal. And there are occupations where an absolute ban is probably required. But dear friends we also have experience with, one of our colleagues mentioned a surgeon, or surgeons, and that profession sometimes does stress or does some other things also requires either a milder gemist or a person's brandy. And believe me, I'm going to go to a surgeon like you who drinks one face-to-face plum or gemist than maybe to someone who drinks more secretly. The HDZ Club will consider adopting the law depending on its observations and proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78473	Thank you, too. We've got two lines reported. Ivan Grubisic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78474	There are professions that drink in the workplace. Let's say as a priest, he can't tell the mass unless he pours wine. It's not determined how much and maybe we should control it because some people take a little more and then the sermon looks like a political rally. But whether priests fall into the category of workers we talk about, that is another question and whether these laws apply to them. But certainly there are cases to drink more than expected and to speak out of control. You should take care of that, too. So there's no mass without drinking wine but it's common that it might be one.../The speaker shut down./ [[You've turned off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78475	Thank you. Answer, here you go, colleague Jurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78476	I personally regret that article 58 is causing so much attention, but it's good, it's probably a good part of us in the Parliament and one part of the public but that's the reality of life too. Don Grubisic reminded us of something we have all forgotten. So this law would in some way prohibit the work of priests and Catholics and other churches, and yet another good argument that there are occupations where, and that is not drinking, it is very interesting that they are looking for a piece of beer, gemist, or I repeat the characters or Slavonic plums.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78477	Thank you. Next replica, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78478	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's an esteemed colleague of yours, no matter how much I disagree, I don't have to agree with you, it's been quite reasoned and such a decent debate in the House unlike some colleagues who, however, you couldn't resist in the end if you hadn't watered your wine or rakija your debate. In this way you have joined the whole play of self-called sophists here, or those who wanted to create some famous sophisms that we have here 7, I will only list the lying one, in fact he always has a mistake when he wants the truth to be entrenched, in fact the untruth is constricted by the cloak of truth, and when you see it always has in his heart, in its being one illogical in conclusion but the speech is such that it easily falls on the hearts of listeners and viewers. This is what many have tried not to come seriously, and so should you, seriously resent this serious work, this serious bill that we all wanted, in some ways, to join and raise the work of the Parliament. However, many of them, well, I'm sorry that you did it in the end, too, who here made themselves look like drunks drinking, so they say we're all drinking at lunch. That's not true, if someone drinks a little bit, so do I. Therefore, it is one irresponsible thing to see that many accidents occur precisely because of irresponsibility, because of fatigue, because of negligence. So let's not heat up such things, but we'll just plead on our own responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78479	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Jurkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78480	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, in my 30s and a few years of work, I've been through a lot of jobs since production and so on. And with all the good that this law proposes and the more or less we all supported the fact is and it's not even advocating drunkenness, it's not even advocating alcohol consumption, it's not escalating by broad masses. It's a simple reality. Someone can say they can work on a mixer or dots, shovels, saws for 10 hours just by the water or without water. That's not true. So, like the rest of my colleagues, I'm advocating reality, so whether someone likes it or not. I'm not advocating drunkenness and don't call me or any of my other colleagues because we're not drunk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78481	Thank you. Minister Miranda Mrsic called for the word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78482	Mr. Vice President, I'm sure we'll discuss this more, but I'm asking to read the law, and the law makes it very clear that it's the employer who's doing the checking whether someone's been alcoholized or not, and he decides when he's going to check it out, and he decides whether the worker needs to take that day off from work or not. The law abolished that alcoholism was the reason for an extraordinary job failure. It used to be, it went away. So now it's a matter of moving away from work that's an employer's assessment. So let's read the law as it says. So 0.0 promila, the employer decides when he will spend, where jobs and at what time. Therefore, the law is very clear. Let's not caricate, and let's not get into awkward situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78483	Thank you, Minister. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of DC and Independent Vesna Škara Ozbolt. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78484	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This is how the minister started the topic, or spoke about alcoholism in the workplace as a reason for the extraordinary cancellation of the labor contract. Maybe I should contribute something to that too with one particular document. In particular, after the repeal of the Act on the Protection of Working under which an alcoholic is considered to be state of mind if the presence of alcohol exceeds 0,5 pomegranate and a small presence of alcohol in the blood could practically result in labour-legal sanctions. In such a case, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia decided and made its point saying that all circumstances should be taken into account when it is intended to give an extraordinary notice of the labour contract. Therefore, under the current Article 64 of the current law, it is prohibited to take alcoholic beverages and other means of addiction before and during work and to enter into work rooms and premises, and the employer is obliged to carry out appropriate measures to prohibit the taking of alcoholic beverages and to prevent abuse of work-related funds. That's exactly what the minister just said. Now this provision has been amended during the current law and the most important amendment was in 2008 when the amendment of the Labour Protection Act intervened exactly in Article 64 where it was said that the provision no longer applies that the worker is considered to be in an alcoholic state if the presence of alcohol exceeds 0,5 promined in the organism. In particular, Article 64 shall apply. The labour protection law stipulates that the employer is obliged and authorised to regulate the verification procedure to determine whether the worker is under the influence of alcohol and other means of addiction. A procedure shall be carried out with the consent of the workers, the way in which that procedure is conducted, the type of test or apparatus and the method of recording and the configuration of the results of course shall be determined. And now with such an arrangement that prohibits the taking of alcoholic beverages and other means of addiction before and during work, and given that there is no more tolerance of 0.5 permeations practically and a small presence of alcohol would result in labour-legal sanctions. And just in one such situation, a worker who, due to a small concentration of alcohol in the blood, practically 0.2 of the prominence was fired, and then the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in this case made a decision saying that the employer was wrong and that the circumstances which the said day the worker was under the influence of alcohol in the workplace does not in itself mean that it is a particularly serious injury to the obligation of employment which, with respect to all the circumstances, so far the work, the behaviour of the workers, and the interests of both parties to continue working in order to be impossible. Therefore, the court found that no matter what was in the alcoholic state, the worker did not commit a major serious injury. He was 33 years old, he was an excellent worker, and he practically sided with the workers. And in this decision, therefore, the Supreme Court has said that any alcoholisation is not a reason for an extraordinary dismissal, but only one that would constitute a particularly serious breach of labour obligations and that would make it impossible to respect the other decisive circumstances for the continuation of the worker's employment relationship with the employer. So maybe we shouldn't bid 0,0 or 0.5, but simply leave this statement out of the existing law, so there's no alcohol. And what it is, which means there is no alcohol, is that 0.2 or 0.5 we leave it to the employers themselves, depending on the complexity of the job, depending on the sensitivity of the job, depends on the impact of the alcohol on the work that the worker is doing. Here, that might be a better solution for us than to figure out 0,0 exactly by the law itself. So here I am now going back to the very purpose of the law, so every protection at work in reality creates safety working conditions to prevent work injuries, occupational illnesses and accidents at work. And here is this second reading of the law is our final alignment with EU rules and with the relevant practice of the EU Court of Justice. Of course, the aim of this law is to reduce the number of injuries to work and occupational diseases, and according to the EU acquis, for the first time, these legal provisions also contain measures to protect workers from psychosocial and psychophysical efforts at work, so stress, mobbing and similar things under which the employer is obliged to carry out stress prevention at work or in relation to work, and to remove the possibility of reducing the working performance of workers and making their health worse. Labour protection issues are related to the achievement of two social rights, which are the right to health and the right to work that are at stake in these times of economic crisis. Between this first and second reading of the law, we have received a Eurobarometra survey dealing with the impact of the crisis on the quality of work and at EU level considers labour conditions to be better than 53% of workers. And it is interesting that in Croatia only 18% of workers consider working conditions to be good, as many as 75% of workers feel that their working conditions have deteriorated significantly in 5 years. And 79% of workers in Croatia believe that the working conditions under which both working hours and work organisations and work protection, employee representation and relationship with the employer are extremely poor. It is interesting that only 58% of workers were informed about the situation in the companies in which they are working on the financial situation, the future of businesses. Therefore, employers mainly did not report to workers on the situation in companies and the financial situation of the company itself. The number of injuries to work, diseases from professional illness and caused damages suggest a high degree of efficiency. So, so far it's been lost since '97. By 2011, about 317 thousand injuries were recorded, diagnosed over 2,000 professional diseases. About 800 people died. So more than 13 million working days have been lost due to a sick leave exceeding the cost of 4 billion kuna. And precisely according to the amount of work injuries and professional illnesses the losses are very large and our current system has proved to be quite inefficient and it is evident that it needs to be improved. And that's why we welcome this intensity to reduce the number and professional illnesses and reduce the number of workers who go into disability pension due to illness. We support this legislative regulation to mark World Work Protection Day because it does indeed seek to raise awareness of the need to carry out work protection and to draw attention to the safety of workers in order to make it as high as possible. We welcome the return of labour medicine and the strengthening of its cooperation with work protection experts, employers and workers and trade unions in order to reduce the number of labour injuries by 5% annually by the end of 2016. It is good that the contribution to the protection of work is related to insurance houses, it is good that the conclusion of a mandatory insurance policy for workers and businesses and companies that will ensure protection at work and those who are well-implemented by the law will have a bonus and those who have fatalities and costs will have a larger and more expensive policy. We support stricter control and control of the employer, but also the role by which inspectors will become an advisory and preventive factor, not only repressive as so far. The Labour Protection Act will also adopt a number of rules and we definitely warn that, and we noticed that, and we did this the last time, that regulations cannot prescribe obligations because the law is a normative act of the country which is adopted by the legislator, and the rules are sublegal acts that only process what has been passed under the law and cannot be prescribed. Therefore, I think this law still suffers from technical regulation, but in principle we consider legal solutions to be good and we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78485	Thank you, too. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78486	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate. Final proposal of the Labour Protection Act, so to speak, on the final draft of the law before the Labour Act or so on. ZOR. But, well, if so, since on 28 April the World Labour Protection Day is here shortly afterwards, we introduce this debate on the final proposal of the Law on Protection at Work, so that the HDSB club will first wait to see what will happen to the amendments that colleagues have made to articles and 58 and to Article 70 above all, so if these amendments are adopted, we are in favour of this and we agree with colleagues who have expressed their objections in these amendments to the final draft of the law, and then we could possibly support this legislative proposal. Therefore, most of the debates, most of the debates were related to Article 58 in the light of the provision that workers should not be influenced by alcohol and other means of addiction or put into the workplace. Although, as my colleague said before me, in the case of the Supreme Court, 0.2 promilas were not evaluated as a particular violation of the working obligation or the working discipline. So the Supreme Court practice has already shown that such a provision does not stand. No one here talks about heavy alcoholism, about those who have been treated or go to treatment, etc. It was here that we were actually talking about today, that is, when the law comes into force, we can freely order the restaurant manager out of the offer of every alcoholic drink, that is to say, from heavy alcoholic drinks, wine, beer, and everything that exists today in the local restaurant. It is also true that it exists today, but here we are, if we are the employees of the assembly that we are making such important laws, which we are working in such an important institution, which we are making such important decisions, we really should not enjoy any change of alcohol under this legal proposal. So it shouldn't be in the offer of the Parliament restaurant either, it shouldn't be in the offer of alcohol, nor at the Tac restaurant in Zagreb, nor should the Minister of Transport and the Mayor of Split, four of them drink nearly 8 bottles of wine, almost 2 butts per person continue to carry out their responsible tasks as minister. There are always certain exceptions, and it's not discrimination, we talked about here that there are, here's the difference already between professional bus drivers and trucks that can't and really shouldn't have more than 0.0, so 0.0 promilas but car drivers who can have an incident, a car accident and a freight car and a bus can have up to 0.5 proms. It is not always the level of alcohol in the blood, therefore measured in promiscuous reasons for the occurrence of a car accident. If someone drives down the street with 0.2 proms and gets a second car or an engine will come to a traffic incident and it will be found in a driver who is absolutely nothing to blame, nothing is guilty because he has the right to have 0.3 spills in his blood. So then we'll be composing again in Slavonia, as we spoke during Sanader when it came to traffic security and when the provision was for the Prime Minister of Parliament and his government to also be 0.0 passed by the driver, so in Slavonia, there is a consistent Vienna: "No one has anything the Croat has, 0.0 from the Croatian Government." That government has passed such a law on traffic safety, but here's one to improve protection at work would say. In that sense, I am also talking about the design of the so-called project. or that will be referred to in Article 6, so the work protection advisory body is the National Council, and it is made up of the Director of the Office for the Promotion of Protection at Work, it is called. This one before was called a little longer, so there are now two, there will be no idea, this one was called the Croatian Institute for Health Protection and Safety at Work HZZSR. They say there's one catchphrase, it's political, "That it's a good bureaucrat who creates a job for another bureaucrat." So here's after they say that by setting up another institution, so with almost exactly the same task, there's going to be an improvement in work protection. It is difficult for us doctors to figure out how this will improve protection at work by drafting another Croatian institution, as he said here to improve protection at work. Statistics already discussed here by someone, about 13 700, 800 injured at work in 2013 or by 2,000 who were injured, injured on the way to work and 11 500 thousand who were just injured at work. There's some interesting data. Namely, when we talk about these statistics, here I will state what according to the report or analysis of the Croatian Institute of Health and Safety at Work published for 2012, that in the sector of construction of inspection supervision, it was found that as many as 96% of the workers in the workplace used the prescribed protective equipment. Does this mean that if we just apply Article 58 that it will not come to, that it will not, strictly if they apply that there will be no injury at work. Well, clearly it doesn't, it would be good if that provision also contributed to a reduction in the number of injuries at work. In the analysis there are more interesting data, according to the way the injuries occur, we can see that the injuries are mostly caused by a fall. In all activities, this type of injury has a share of 35%, of all injuries, so 35%. However, public workers on average fall and are injured more frequently than private sector workers, very interesting. Public administration officials are injured by the fall in 42% of cases and the average is 35. As workers in the construction sector fall into 35% of cases, so on average. Approximately equal percentage 34% is valid for transport and storage activities. Statistically the worst pass by health care and social care workers. They are injured by a fall in as many as 47% of cases. And now you and I here are talking about protection at work, about measures and even about this article 58th, so I don't get it, here are the statistics that came from the official body, so the Croatian Institute for Health Protection, excuse the Croatian Institute for Health Protection and Safety at Work. There are other very interesting data in which, where construction workers are seen to be using 98% of cases of work injuries, protective equipment, and others, therefore, mainly in the state sector and in health protection, workers who work, use in a very significantly smaller number, so for three times less protective equipment in their work. I don't want to, so this paradox that I would like to mention today, here, because it's an official report from the Croatian Institute for Health Protection, and here, I'm going to look back on this law a little bit more. Look, code, I'm not going to talk about one thing right now, they say discrimination, in one religious post says you can't eat for 30 days, and yet in that post there are exceptions to patients and passengers, so said the book, the book over the books. But here they say that discrimination if one employee in particular, not only for his health but also for the responsibility and for the health of others, is prescribed 0.0, and others who work, for example, as a colleague Baranovic said, as a librarian or at home, privately, has his own computer and he and his wife, or the child, have a company, registered and work at home through a computer or computer, in order to say Croatian, do some work, and they must also not enjoy any... Some other laws have been agreed to, for example, beer is a food product and is included in a group of food products. Why? Well, because the taxes on food products are 10%, and the wine is 25%. Wine is excluded from food products. And now, here, you can't consume a glass of food product called beer. That's what the law says to someone else. In the case of the Transport Safety Act, 0.5 has been allowed to go through with this. Look, colleague Skare-Ozbolt cited the Supreme Court practice, and I love and enjoy it, after eating in the grills. There were court cases where the lawyer had just used it, I didn't have a car accident, but I just used an argument about the consumption of griote, the food product, but there's that liqueur in it too. And if you take 3 or 4 of them, you'll have 0.2% of the blood alcohol. So what do we do? If the worker works on a crane or where in the building and that he likes the grills, and thank God, pretty people love them, so they'll also have 0.2 proms based on the 4,5 griots he eats, before work, later, during work hours, he can get candy during work and eat 3, 4 griotes and have 0.1 or 0.2 proms. How are we going to determine whether he was drinking or eating grills? I speak cases of ordinary life, I speak cases of ordinary human practice and speak in plain language, which is what Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic will already replicate. Other articles of the law, which were the most discussed and article 39 on the relationship between employers and the protection of our pregnant and breast-feeding women, and it is good that this article, we are really here together, all together, as advocates, fighting for this sensitive group that deserves our attention and where it should be really maximum tolerance, mainly by employers. About the article of 70 and the provision of the employer calling, let's say by the old man, the choir of his employees, if the company is less than 20 employees and, on the basis of that call, the employers choose their own commissioner, I wonder, and what happens if the employer doesn't call their employees to determine the commissioner, what happens then? Any sanctions against the employer? Yeah. Finally, in Article 83, we are talking about the role and tasks of this newly established institution in which, in fact, what this Institute of Promotion of Protection should do, and myself personally, I must say that this is my personal opinion, I think that so too, the club thinks, that there is nothing more to improving protection at work than what existed while the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work, that it is about the same level. We can be bigger Europeans than Europe and than the EU directives and guidelines, and in fact we're still here, I'm not going to say anything else but Well, it's not already, is it? [[Intruder Milorad Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78487	Yes, it is. He has three replicas of his colleague Grubisic will be an opportunity. I've been waiting for everything to end, but not at all. We're moving on to the replicas, so you'll be able to respond. The first one was Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78488	Thank you. So here's my colleague Grubisic, you mentioned this problem that statistically there are more injuries to public sector work than in the private sector. We are all more or less assuming that it is actually almost impossible for more injuries to work in the public sector to happen than in the private sector, but also that everyone who has worked in medicine and health care has faced countless times with the phenomenon that employees in the private sector do not report or report their injuries at work, or that they are affected by the employer and the various ways in which these reports of injuries do not occur because then the burden of this falls on the private employer, especially when it comes to the small company. And that's where the law and the rights of the workers are played. Of course, it's very difficult in these cases to establish and get to the truth. And on the other hand, you have also said well that our legislation is already well enough today, as well as in the area of the protection of workers and different elaborates, however, that to a large extent many things are being played out. We have excellent papers but then implementation of the helmet, so I would agree with you that it is not necessary for us to further tighten and complicate regulation but to work on implementing instruments and in a better way these laws that exist so such a law as they implement in practice and protect workers' rights. I don't think there's any need for us to continue to agree only on regulation if we haven't been able to implement this so far enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78489	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78490	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Đurović, in favour of your replica, and my debate, and I have not been able to say so, says so for 2012. "According to the number of employees in those sectors, the number of injured per 1,000 construction workers is 14, in transport and storage 18, in public administration 12, in health care and social care 15. The registered number of labour injuries in the construction sector is less than the number of injuries in the health care and social care sector. But as workers on the site of the injury often get more often from the fall of an object on them, health workers fall more often alone or fall into the objects they are surrounded by" etc. Paradox never enough. And the fact that you're an interesting information about the spread unfortunately I have to say so to the worker who got hurt in construction, and then because of the damage and all that happens, a deal with the employer might know more of the lady co-worker here present attorney from the attorney's office, so here's how Skara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78491	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78492	So here's a colleague when you were talking about this provision of alcohol, or banring the use of alcohol at work, then you mentioned but wrongly one case of court practice when you said that here you already have 0.2 when you consume two griotes, which is not true. It's known that the situation was and you're going like this that the perpetrator who was guilty in the alcoholized state of the car accident was defending himself that he wasn't drinking, he was just eating griote. So then the court wasn't lazy, but he gave a nice report of how much griote that had to be consumed and the expert determined that the amount of alcohol he had had had to eat 70kg of griote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78493	The answer of my colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78494	My colleagues, Ingrid, if you ate 10 griotes and I ate 10 griotes, it wouldn't be the same amount of alcohol in your blood and mine. So we have a variety of options that must be said. And the fact that a few experts finds that 70kg of alcohol and I can't eat 70kg well, but a kilo, two I could eat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78495	Thank you. And the last replica of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78496	My dear colleague, you have called me several times, and when I quoted the practice of the Supreme Court in which the Supreme Court took the view that 0.2 has passed in a particular case of an employee who received an extraordinary dismissal is not the reason for obtaining an extraordinary resignation, then that does not mean that 0.2 promila is not alcoholism in any case. So I stood up for it, and I continue to advocate that employers, their internal rules, depend precisely on the work the worker is doing, write down the exact conditions concerning the workplace. So if for a crane driver there really shouldn't be a drop of alcohol in his blood because it affects his consciousness then that's how it is. But for one I don't know a farm worker there's no reason perhaps for such a strict provision. Therefore, it depends on the circumstances of the case, on the circumstances of the business whether anything will be considered an alcoholic state... And that's why I think putting exactly the legal provisions of 0.0 into the law may not be the best solution but a firm legal provision that there is no alcoholic state of that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78497	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78498	My colleagues, you obviously want to, you said you'd vote for this bill, but yet you're watching the thorn in the tracks to distinguish the alcoholic state from when someone consumes a couple of griotes like your colleague Ingrid said. So, but you didn't say it, you said you were accepting the law as such. I don't know. Furthermore, what it is, and you've been to law school, and now it is, I don't know exactly, about witches. Best says the art of mountaineering and differences in the price of a building on Mountain Street and the fact that my colleague Ingrid pointed out about the consumption of some substances that contain alcohol in themselves in small quantities but when it concentrates and consumes in large quantities then you have a blood alcohol concentration. I'm about to make a selection in professions, so in professions that, like drivers, a professional driver who really shouldn't have. We can do that in the others, so it's just a little effort, a little effort. Either the employer is gonna let him prescribe, so he's not gonna have a librarian or that accountant or I don't know, it's not the same thing as a truck driver, etc. Therefore, if he has a company and 200 employees, 100 employees can write and determine exactly and according to legal provisions that must not have a single 0.001 permeation in the blood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78499	Thank you, too. We're done discussing clubs. Minister Miranda Mrsic called for the word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78500	Dear Mr. Vice President to break the story of griotes, you're a doctor like me and you know what it is to exhale the air, and you know that when you eat griotes, if you smoke in a drain in that air, there can be alcohol vapors, but the next time you breathe those pairs again, you don't have 0.0 in your blood. So it says very clearly here in the law when we talk about concentration in the exhaled air and in the blood. And that's two completely different things. You're a doctor like me. So the one who thinks he's got 0.5 in the exhaled air if he thinks he doesn't can always get blood out and confirm if that's the case. The most exotic way is the concentration of alcohol in the blood. And when we talk about alcohol, according to European statistics, 25% of injuries at work in the European Union are caused by alcohol and drugs abuse. In Croatia, we unfortunately do not have good statistics because in the case of injuries at work, in principle, we are never tested for alcohol. And you can tell by the statistics, you can tell by how many injuries there are at work, how many cases there have been injuries at work, and how much alcohol. It is simply not tested and it is quite certain that the number that is now in the Institute for Health and Safety at Work is much, much larger than it is, therefore, the number of alcohol injuries. But alcohol reduces the possibility of good judgment, reduces the time of reaction, therefore increases the time of reaction, increases the risk of injury at work. And let's not caricate things, we simply have to prescribe these things because it is also a civilization achievement and something that must lead to the fact that in Croatia that has a major problem with alcoholism, we have forgotten it a little, but a large number of people have problems with alcohol, ask people who deal with it. And on the other hand, just 0.0 doesn't mean everyone's gonna be tested. So it's the employer's decision and the employer is the one who will decide whether to test someone or not. And on the other hand it is very clear in the law unlike the previous laws very clearly laid down and it is a very clear provision that if the worker is alcoholized that employer that day will remove it and will not work that day. So no one gets fired, no one loses a job, before it's legal, it's gone. So, very in the law, see also Article 59, it is very clear what with those taking certain medicines that are used to treat mental illnesses, what with them is revealed. So the procedure is very clear and we think that the protection of workers is maximum in this part. So absolutely 0.0 has gone through is something that should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78501	Thank you, Minister. We have a few replicas. First responds Vice President Nenad Stazic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78502	Dear Minister, here's the whole day we've been hearing about this, this argument, this disagreement over that provision about the allowed amount of alcohol at work. And I think that this problem can be solved in a way that says that it will be arranged for the rules on work, that every employer will handle it with the rules on work. By not allowing any working rules to increase the concentration of 0.5 prominence. Because really some manager goes to some business lunch, he has to give a toast, he has to, they're... These are the rules, so if you put such a provision into that law then I think we'd avoid the recommendations, to reconcile the opposite views, that employers of course in the nuclear power plant would not allow any alcohol, of course they wouldn't allow this to happen, of course not to allow a professional bus driver and truck driver. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in some company where it's not so important, where the job is done by office power, it's going to allow 0.2, 0.3, but no more than 0.5. Then you'd reconcile all these discussions and I think you'd get unanimous support for the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78503	Thank you. Next replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78504	Well, I don't think that after the Vice-President of Parliament Nenad Stazic came in, because I also wanted to say that everything can be prescribed by the rules of work that every employer allows and whether it allows a quantity of alcohol or not, so I support it, and I'm sure as hell going along with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78505	Thank you. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78506	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, although I sometimes disagree with the minister in this case, I absolutely agree with the minister when we talk about it, because it seems to me that we are a little distracted with the mind of how big a health problem alcoholism is in Croatia on the one hand. And on the other hand that it's not even a problem in the rules, not even in the law, the problem is as in many other laws in practice and in implementation, and there are huge problems. We can write laws whatever we want. We have infrequently very good laws that we do not implement in practice at all, and it will be incomparably more important if we are going to do the same in practice now. Because we've had some laws so far that limit the consumption of alcohol at work, certain boundaries, etc. They weren't practically applied anywhere. In some institutions, even in our joints, we've acquired machines dregs, etc. For that. It seems to me that they've never been used either once or twice eventually in some extreme cases when it was really necessary to prove that someone has three promes, say, or four that are on the border of poisoning to really have some basis. Therefore, it is less important what we prescribe, but it is very important that we do so precisely because of the protection of workers at work because it is the key thing. Therefore, I personally think that everything we will do in terms of reducing alcoholism as one great evil that exists objectively in our society, which is rarely welcomed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78507	Thank you, too. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78508	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief since Mr. Mrsic said he was talking about civilization achievements. And if you take, for example, the civilization of France and Italy, or Germany, and I'm talking about the consumption of small quantities of wine or beer, here's how much I think that, although I rarely agree with Mr. Stazic's vice president, he has offered a civilization solution for the civilization's achievement this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78509	And the last replica of Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78510	Thank you very much. The fact is that really this article has taken a little too much space... Advocating change promotes alcoholism and drunkenness. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But good. I wanted to sort of relate to Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Academy Director of Reiner. The laws are good, they're mostly good laws. The problem is the implementation and control of these laws. Remember the debate when it comes to inspectorates. Look, let's say there wasn't a long sign in the newspaper taxi drivers 300 hours were accomplished monthly. He doesn't need to be alcoholized, but the fact that the employer makes him go 300 hours in traffic, which means he's dangerous to other participants simply if he goes to report to someone, if he goes to say anything he's aware he'll lose his job. That's the problem. It's a work inspection problem and I mean, well, if you say no, obviously I'll hear the answer. But the problem is that these people feel unprotected and he has nothing to do. He was forced, and on the other hand, this process endangers all other road users.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78511	Thank you. Answer me, Minister Mrs. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78512	So it's absolutely certain that reporting illegality is always a problem because workers are always afraid for their jobs, so we have made it possible to report anonymously 0800 4949. We have a lot of reports and on the other hand, in any way of reporting here if you have the knowledge that in some company you are illegally reporting to us and the Inspectorate of the work will immediately come out and do a reconnaissance. So, one new way of working an inspectorate and you can tell by the fact that you can see the increased number and the inspection results, the increased number of crime findings. But on the other hand, we're not even happy about it, because that means it's illegal. But what's certainly a work inspectorate is doing differently. Anything you find out, report to us and the inspectorate will do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78513	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78514	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. As many before me have pointed out, saying, the important day of the 28.4. The World Work Protection Day, that's not even a quarter of a day has passed that we're here to discuss the final proposal of the Labour Protection Act, which is the result, so several months ago as you yourself pointed out Mr. Minister introducing the law for more than a year. It is one serious legislative project, and all discussions were more or less so that some more serious objections to this bill were not available. In short, the purpose of this law is one decent job and a secure job. Safe work not only in the sense where we want it and preserve it in terms of continuity but above all that man feels safe and protected in the workplace, on the one hand, which is the employer's duty, which is the duty of the legislator, but also us as legislators, to ensure such a legal framework. But also obligations, so not only employers but workers, so we're all in debt and we're all called to account. Of course, the new living conditions as you yourself said are still in the far '49. The year of the last century, that some occupations have disappeared, and that new technologies, new machines require, which are much more dangerous, require increased caution. Croatia is therefore also putting itself in line with this Final Proposal of the Law on the Protection of Labour, which I fully support the classification and not only to be classified in the order of those countries that have good legislation which no one here nor denies, but we continue the tradition where many countries and European stunts are behind us what protection we have at the work of workers. However, with the very fact that what is happening and what has rightly been pointed out by colleagues, that we have good regulations, that this bill will give us an even better legislative framework, but that still the situation, and you have pointed out it yourself, is not quite satisfactory because still relatively, these are not alarming numbers but every lost life in the workplace also a large number of injuries at work requires a more stringent and serious approach here, but then also better control especially the inspectors that you are declaring based on this law. Thus, in the early 19th century, itself and history, the beginning of industrialization, related to human misery and diseases associated with labour, and one major union and employment engagement, began to date and then the countries of the first industrialization of France, Germany and Russia and the United States began to create legislation that would in some way protect workers from the will of the industrialists of the time. It should be noted that already after World War II, on the initiative of Andrija Printar from 1947 in Zagreb, the Institute for Hygiene of Labour was established, which was renamed in 1970 to the Institute of Medical Research and Medicine, and since 1960 we have already specialized in medical work. So, that's something he commits, but that's something that some of these people have mentioned here, Mr. Minister of our former colleague and former Minister of Hebrang, who tried to abolish the work medicine that we are further institutionalizing, but every attempt and touching into it will bring us, and you said yourself, for the next 10 years of hard work to develop a network that was once developed just in medicine. Which is why we're going back to this bill. What not only with this bill but also with all the laws that are repressive because they have broken provisions and which, therefore, are... It means that they are positive norms, that they should be respected because there are sanctions behind them, that there is almost no objection in that, but that we need to work more on prevention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what many colleagues have agreed on, and that's what this bill really speaks of. Because prevention, therefore, and when such ones are summed up, especially these prevention standards, they best warn both employers and workers about the process of work and everything that is related to the work they take very seriously. Because it's the only way to keep the health, the health of the workers, his ability to work. What is particularly valuable, and quite new, will require safe and new court practice, for the first time in a consistent way we have in this bill a measure of protection of workers against psychosocial risks, psychophysiological efforts at work, stress, monotony jobs, normised work. So, just like the working environment, if it's bad communication, it's something that's only been talked about lately, but I'm just saying for the first time in this bill, we have this in a consistent way solved. We are also in line with the Council of Europe Directive but also with EU rules in this area as well as with the relevant practice of the EU Court of Justice. What I particularly want to mention is that many have talked about statistical indicators, but what both workers and employers agree on and note that this is a law that is just the result of the agreement with the social partners, which should be particularly stressed that education and workers and employers are needed as an integral part of prevention. This also shows the results of all studies each year that a relatively small number of accidents occur in the workplace due to lack of protective equipment or broken machines. The biggest cause of the accident is carelessness and fatigue, overtime, work on black. When we see, when you take a closer look at the analysis of deaths, but also at the same time, a significant number of injured workers were unreported workers, who worked black or due to higher earnings, exposed themselves to overtime. That's why this one fatigue and indifference, in particular, I draw attention to it, are equally more dangerous if not even more dangerous than alcohol. I'm saying it's relevant to statistics. Here I am not longer, I support this proposal of the Labour Act, I believe that it will contribute to the dignity of work, safety at work, but of course we support and that our inspections are particularly as they are now and set up, they are expected to be effective in the application of work, whether they are working on a call or only when the accident occurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78515	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78516	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, distinguished MPs, we don't have that institute to correct the wrong allegations anymore, but in fact, it's about that, at first you said that it was timely when he was the Minister of Health, Professor Hebrang, that he had abolished the medicine work, and that this law of medicine was coming back. This is simply not true, it is not true because that form of medical work that existed then in, which was inherited from the past system and which functioned in the past system in the way it worked when large companies had to have their doctors employed who were involved in the protection of work and treatment of diseases related to work, etc. is not established by this law either because, simply, the opportunities have changed, relations have changed, and neither this law nor the intensity of this law has been to put again in each company a doctor who will have his or her own office and who will then take care of the health of workers in that company, etc. So, just so we don't mix up the concepts, it's simply not true that the system that was before, and then it's changed again. We have another concept, in the meantime it was another concept, this is the same other concept. I hope he'll be good, but anyway it's not returning something that was very good, and then it's off, so it's gonna be really good again because it's gonna come back too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78517	Thank you. Answer. A colleague of Antičević's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78518	Well, what you've now replicated to me is actually correcting something that... I totally agree with what you said, and that's it, and that's what we stand for. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one is talking anymore, so unfortunately we don't have any more, and they've changed social and production relations to make it more and more, but in some ways, the medical work that is needed and that corresponds to the modern and modern times that we find it unquestionably affirmed by this bill. That's what it was about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78519	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Nadica Jelash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78520	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues, since this is a final draft of the law, I will make only a few remarks that I have come up with reading the proposed text. In fact, one of the papers adopted by this law in relation to the old one is still valid, it is a concept. As the word itself says, the term defines thirty of the most important concepts of the law and will certainly make it more simple and easier to understand the law itself, but also future sublaws that will be passed under this law. And that's for all the praises. However, it is the wording that relates to my first remark. In fact, one of the key concepts of the Labour Protection Act is work injury and it is defined in this legislative proposal as an injury occurred in the area where the worker performs the work. This is a much more consensual definition than the one in the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, which, under injury to labour, implies that injury, I will now quote Article 66. Mandatory health insurance law: "Which worker gets on a regular journey from apartment to place of work and vice versa, and on the road taken to get to work." So I ask the question why and in this legislative proposal, therefore, the Labour Protection Act does not include injuries to workers on the way to work and from work? So why is it so decadent that it doesn't stand clean because of the coincidence of definitions in these two laws that actually intertwine in many ways. Second, my comments are related to a kind of contradiction in Article 72 of the Law, which regulates the protection of the actions of labourers' commissioners. In fact, paragraph 2 of that article states: "The employer is obliged to provide the work protection officer with the conditions for the smooth performance of his duties in accordance with the general rules on working conditions prescribed for the work of the working council." In other words, the general labour regulation, which is known to be the Labour Act, requires that the work protection commissioner must have the same conditions as the members of the Working Council. However, in this final proposal of the Labour Protection Act, and in relation to the first reading, paragraph 3 has been added, which states that the Commissioner has the right to pay for the job, for the jobs carried out for at least 2 hours a week, we know that for the members of the Workers' Council it is 6 hours, leaving the possibility to resolve this issue more favourably. How? A collective contract, or agreement. I have to say this sounds kind of hypocritical to me because we all know how happily, under quotes, our employers make collective agreements. In addition, I think the problem is that almost 90% of the Croatian Economic Corps is made up of small companies, one of which has no significant number of trade unions, no working council or labour commissioners, and therefore there is virtually no one to control or monitor on behalf of workers whether protection measures are applied. So we can say that a very significant number of Croatian workers are actually not under that umbrella of the Labour Protection Act. And my third question is, what is the status of the Protection Act on the work of temporaryly resigned workers from the Agency for Indulgence of Workers? Therefore, whether employers who are temporarily resigned workers will have the same obligations to them in terms of, therefore, protection at work as they do to their employees. I believe that the answer is positive, here, I can see by your reactions, of course, but it would not be excessive if it were decided and written in this law, given that in the future, the model of employee engagement through agencies will be used more. And lastly, as a kind of conclusion, I would like to say that good protection at work is extremely important, unfortunately we become aware of that, but in that true and full sense of the word only when terrible tragedies like this last one we've been hearing about for days, and it's about tragedy, so workers, or miners in the Suma mine in Turkey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78521	Thank you, too. Next up for discussion, Goran Maric. Here you go, colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78522	Thank you very much. A few remarks regarding this law, although the sophists are usually critics, but if they are not critical of the present, then they do not care about the future. But it's not the goal of trusting anyone, so I don't have to make fun of any legal framework, not one situation, but just warn of something that's absurd and not applicable and if it can be corrected. The most important thing for one law is its implementation and application. Every law must be in the general interest, but it must be life, it must be enforceable. In this section, some parts of this bill will lead to absurd situations and I do not want to repeat them in view of the already spoken. But I'm going to give my personal position, I'm against it, but I'm up for 0 in this law, but I can't be up for 0 in the Labour Protection Act, and for 0.5 in the Traffic Act, I can't be that. Because it's always more dangerous in traffic than in 90% of the activities covered by the Labour Act. I'm up to 0 in the Labour Act, but 0 in traffic. Nobody threatens a driver more than another life. The most endangered are innocent lives, drivers. Remember picked up by sidewalks and families and drunk, arrogant MBWs, strong, over 3,000 cubic and 200, 300 horsepower. There will be problems with the application of this law. It turns out to be a cartoon, but we can't ignore that he's going to be referring to what we think maybe he won't. There will be an absurd situation, so like, not the same job someone will be able to do, and maybe they won't be punished, the other will be doing the same job, and they will be punished. The minister said that 0.1% if it is determined, it is on the employer whether he will be removed or removed from work. Yeah, he'll get off work, but he won't get paid for that day. Someone also mentioned priests, some priests have paid insurance, contributions, so it's their job, but there are priests, rows that don't have insurance, and it's not like they're not in a working relationship. One can drink, the other can't drink. We talked about MPs, we talked about protocols. In application, what will the law do if it does not apply? So we're going to tolerate up to 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, but we're going to prescribe that 0, but we're all going to give instructions, look a little bit, don't punish 0.2 or 0.3. We'll ban smoking, but smoke everywhere. Has anyone punished anyone in Parliament for smoking in places? He smokes in the halls, smokes in the rooms inside, and we have a "no smoking" law. Application is a problem. This law is called the Proposed Law on Protection at Work. What does it mean to ensure that a man is protected from labor? According to its content he most corresponds to the name of the bill on protection against injuries at work because the worker is at risk of multiple occurrences, not only of injuries. What if he's life-threatening, not because of the danger of death, but because he's not getting paid? What if he's working overtime more than allowed? What if he's working overtime and he's not paying for overtime? What if there is an incompetent executive whose policy or director or son is imposed on? Imagine what a frustration it is for a sector when it comes rather than to manage highly educated people and run a company or a sector or department, and it has no idea about anything. How do you protect yourself from these? When someone said I was working overtime and I wasn't allowed to receive the fee, did I say give up? It's never gonna happen, because the state doesn't protect it like that. Let's take a step forward, let's say if someone employer reported that he worked 50 hours overtime and didn't pay him and that he couldn't because he got fired for it, let's get him paid out of the state budget for those if he did. It will be more beneficial than damage to the state budget, let's punish the employer, and from that fund let's pay those who make it. This way, we will punish the least poor craftsmen as we have closed for three kuna advance deals, we have closed restaurants or cafes or hotels, and it has been said that we will publish the results even the most responsible person has said 100 million kunas have been established in large malls we will publish. Never report what's going to happen in those big malls. As they are exploited, it is a shame that these women look at shopping malls at 12 o'clock on Saturday because by 11 they work and at 12 they have to clean up after themselves and go home at 2 o'clock in the morning. They have nothing to pay with, they have to pay for the cab and then they don't have the pay on the cab. That same employer who keeps our wife in the shops till midnight Saturday doesn't work after 12 hours or after 15 at all in his home state. On Sundays, this same employer in Croatia doesn't work, they don't think they can work, but in Croatia they can do whatever they want, they can do in Croatia, they can trample on Croatian people to the ground, and what will they do when they retire? That the sooner he dies, the more he begs. We made slaves out of workers, that's the problem. Germany has the Obligation Insurance Act from work injuries, yet Bismarck brought it under the 1894 Imperial Regulation. Have we considered that such a law should be passed by the Law on Insurance of Injuries at Work? However, law enforcement and law-making always recognizes the handwriting of the most powerful companies. And in this law, and in every one of them the employers get hurt, and I feel sorry for them, because they are not taken care of by the smallest, they always get hurt. These will include the Tax Administration and the Inspectorate of various and inspections. There is no label on one product to pay the price fine, and this one holds by the sea on the beach camp hundreds of thousands of square meters illegally for 20 years no one has ever charged him a fine and today they include him as a tourist community in the catalog of the tourist community. They can't handle it, and they should. But the easiest thing for a poor girl to do is to get down on her knees and let these powerful men just hit as hard as they can. Working is the most important man as much food and drink is the most important, right to work, but also pleasure at work. Research has shown that for 50% of employees, the most important level of pay, although small, is that even more important work satisfaction and the circumstances in which it occurs. What about harassment, what about assault? What workers experience at work must not even say, especially women who experience it. Here with all intents and purposes, there is a law to be passed, but only one suggestion, Article 39. Excessive work. What about the overtime of pregnant women defines the position of pregnant women? Yeah, labour law, but I'm saying here is about the protection of workers talking. So let's protect these extra pregnant women so they can't work overtime so we can protect them the most.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78523	Bring in the debate, time's up. Finish your sentence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78524	And the law should not be questionable or ambiguous, and Article 35 adapt the conditions and schedule the working time to remove, provide other suitable jobs that is undefined and I think that in the laws it should avoid such undefined terms that can always be applied ambiguously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78525	Thank you. Here we go to the replicas and there'll be opportunities. Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78526	Thank you. Well, my colleague Maric, I think if I'm not mistaken, that we have been contributing to work injuries within the health contribution that I think zero point something, that it's been in Croatia for years if I'm not mistaken. It's about the contribution. And secondly, I wanted to say you're very much to say sharpening that notion of good and bad, you've put things into the notion of good and bad smoking, alcohol, to say I think you're too much to admit for my kind of experience and sharpened and that it's not exactly possible in that way to look at these issues in a uniform way and to that... worth unequivocally qualify. After all, people are human. Or on the other hand, you can go all the way, but you have to leave some space for the people of freedom. You can put detectors and put all the politicians under detectors and squeeze everything out of people they know. It's the same with cigarettes and alcohol, and I don't know what. Well, people are people, I think. Yet you can't quite do that, these things are calculated with all the weaknesses that people have and drink. I don't have any problems or drinking habits or anything. And on the other hand, while we are talking about alcohol, what you did not mention and what is visible cannot be collected on the one hand large money from alcohol and alcohol and let that alcohol be freely advertised in hundreds of millions of kunas, to be tied to all brands such as the Croatian football team and, on the other hand, lead to a radical fight on the zero alcohol rate in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78527	Thank you. Answer, fellow Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78528	I didn't sharpen my friend, he sharpened the law. The law goes all the way, not me. I'm just warning that the law goes to the end and when the law goes to the end, then it's the highest possibility of selective application. And the most dangerous thing for society and the law is that the law is selectively applied. That's why I'm not going legally to the end. Well, people have their weaknesses, but then we can't punish one's weaknesses and tolerate the other. Now we're gonna tolerate human weakness for drinking and when someone gets in the car and drives on the road. But we won't tolerate human weakness if he sits at home and works. So who's he counting on? Who's he threatening? That's the kind of absurd thing I'm talking about. So today private companies with 6, 7... Well, it's all done at home more than at the firm because he can't pay the director's fee, take the computer and work at home. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Under this law, no alcohol from 0 to 24 should be taken at all. 'Cause whatever his time is, he doesn't even have time to work. That's what I'm talking about. And that it cannot be stimulated and tolerated by human weakness to those who threaten another man more than those who threaten less. I'm talking about this discrimination. And for example, seniors today have their own party famous. You know what the instructions say when they're going to Bundeck? That alcohol and glass bottles are prohibited, that only soda and beer are allowed. And no one reacted. The beer won't get the kids drunk because there's no alcohol in the beer. No one did. Where's the kid's lawyer? Where is he today? Why didn't he react? He's gone. I warn you of these things. And my child is there today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78529	Thank you. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78530	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Reverend Maric, I agree with you that the key thing is always the implementation of the law. Well, here's something to do with it. Maybe you should draw one attention to a good old custom. And it says here that under the paragraph, the source of the funds needed to implement the law that it will cost nothing, of course it will cost as much as any new law always cost something because it always introduces some changes. Well, here's only when we look at it, for example. The introduction of, of course, this new institution, of course, that, since the Institute has different powers, which is positive and widespread, of course it will certainly, perhaps not immediately in the first month but eventually have to hire some people who will be competent to work those additional competences that this institution receives. Therefore, more money will have to be spent. But that's something that unfortunately became common practice. Every lawmaker writes that the law won't cost anything. And we all know that all these laws always cost something. Some little, some more, some right now, some very much, some in six months. So, as usual, and I've done it a few times in the last two years, I plead, let's not be realistic, let's not write, no one will refuse any law because it's going to be written that something costs a few million kunas, because if the law is meaningful then of course and these millions of kunas are meaningfully used. But everywhere and regularly it's written that it's not going to cost anything and we know it's going to cost, and that's what it says this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78531	Thank you. A colleague Maric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78532	Thank you very much. Comrade Reiner, of course, is the most important application because the law is also passed for the sake of its application. And that is why it is necessary to systematically pass laws, not to have ambiguity, doubts and problems in application. It is better to wait years for the law than to be wrongly passed, inapplicable, and that have to experience every little change. Here's how much this has caused this 0 change, I'm sure when the bill is passed, it won't contain this provision in the law. That it would sort of be different to regulate. Here, remember, and so much debate here has caused. When it comes to application, Article 34, we are obliged to act as agents and it is a duty for someone to hear it and to implement it. Where an employer who employs more than 50 or more workers says he is obliged to set up a work protection committee, etc. Why not warn of a fluctuating workforce? What about seasonal employment? What if she's 15 days 51 and the rest of her days are 30? What if there are two months of 100 employees and over the year there are 20 employees left? The law didn't predict that. I think that when the law says that it has to predict all possible variations, that's why there are working groups, that's why there are discussions, that's why there are committees. But the most important thing is not to hear anything because you're the only one who's always criticizing it. I would be happy to pass the law to hear as many objections as possible and to install everything that is life and what needs to be built in to avoid anything. Or, for example, Article 87. "the office's business is run by the director." But what conditions should the director have that doesn't say at all. Well, it's the headmaster of the institute for God's sake. So can someone with an elementary, no school or a college or with experience or with practice or with knowledge? Intruder Batinić: Time./... What do we need? Under this law, anyone can. It's not a good law. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78533	Thank you. And the last replica Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78534	Comrade Maric, I agree with your debate, mainly because you spoke laboristly, not social democratically, but laboristly. You've determined what we've been saying all along with him probably not telling you that you're a populist because you belong to another club, that we've made slaves out of workers, and that's what we're saying. Practice shows that this government has made it possible for slaves to be made. You were talking about big trade chains. Please, what inspections do you dare come into the big chain of commerce and talk to the workers? Many trade chains prohibit the organisation of workers. You know that. Who's responding to that? Did the government react to that? It's not. I like this suggestion of yours, you said we're not only protecting workers from injuries. We protect them from life threats, actually from payouts, from working conditions, from having to work for 16 hours, that they're only paid for 8 hours, that if they object to getting fired because there are too many people. Yeah, it's a fund-raiser. The government should, you were talking about the fund, and you weren't talking about insurance from the injuries, you were talking about the fund to get the workers to sign up. Who will dare report Todorovic? So he gets fired, his entire family gets fired until the seventh generation because he rules Croatia. 'Cause these big capitalists, they're gonna be good for big capital. That's what you've detected that we keep saying. And even though someone will say it's out of the context of this law it's not. Out of context is this whole debate because we should have discussed the broader laws that regulate workers and workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78535	Thank you. A colleague Maric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78536	My colleague Vuksic, I can't speak either laboristly, nor, I'm saying, here refers to a man. Then on this law, I can only speak humanly, because it applies to people. ... But in another way. [[You can't hear it.]] Just one example. 30 years ago, I was more in Germany's baustels. My father used to work there, too. He had more rights as a canal digger and was more protected at work and paid for every injury than today after 30 years of any worker in Croatia. That's the problem, and we have to react to such problems. How organized was this country, so let's take a look at Austria and Germany for what's going on there. But the Austrian company in Austria works in one way, in Croatia in the opposite way. We let them do it, I warn them it's not allowed. When you say the revenue from the tax on cigarettes or alcohol, and how much the expenditure resulting from that is never, it's hard to compare. The easiest thing to say is we're paying that much into the budget. And who treats alcoholics, who treats the sick? Whose expense is that? Is that what the state's gonna do? Is that going to solve the budget? That's why I think it can be better and better to protect the worker at work, and the highest wage and not to abuse the overtime worker without being paid, it can't. Such penalties must be so terrible that they never think of doing so to the employer again, but there are no such penalties in Croatia And do not punish because there are three kunas in the register; good day do not, try to reconcile, goodbye. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78537	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Maric. Minister Miranda Mrsic called for the word. Here's the Minister's final.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78538	Thank you very much. So we're back to drinking 0.5 but good. I would go and try to clarify a few of the things that are highlighted here as perhaps possible problems, so here is one of the most quoted issues of protection commissioners at work why we decided that the labour protection commissioner should be elected by all workers and that there should be no practice that has been so far, and that the commissioner of protection at work is elected by the union. So I'll quote one quote. The presentation of workers through the working council remained at the level of 1995 and even lower. The trade unions systematically narrow down the space for the work of the working councils rather than for mutual benefit and therefore have damages and working councils and trade unions. Well, that's exactly why the quote should support this. It should be supported for reasons why workers should choose their own person to represent them in front of the employer. He has, therefore, the same protection as the representatives of the working council. Let me just point out that this is not a quote from Plan 21. We said it the other way. This is what the Labourist programme document says under the labour market on page 20. Therefore, gentlemen, if you are in favour of this, then you should support what we are in favour of, rather than raising interest groups if you are still in front of your voters, representing your programme and it is written in your program. Therefore, I expect you to uphold this law and support what we have predicted. Of course, unions where they are organised must and need to highlight their candidate for work protection commissioner and workers will choose that. As far as the workers' assembly of the Labour Act is concerned, it is very clear, it is an employer's obligation. And on the other hand, we have a work protection inspector who, in those cases where no work protection commissioner has been elected, will order and order the employer to do so under the threat of sanctions, so that part will be. And why is it important to us to improve work protection? It is important for us because this office will monitor the elections itself, it will have a record of labour protection commissioners, we will finally have in Croatia all those people who care about protecting the work more appropriate. But it's not that we know which ones are in that place but that we allow them education, that we allow them to do their duty as labour protection commissioners to do even better because clearly not everyone knows everything. As far as small employers are concerned, there was a story that the law goes to the hands of large employers. Conversely, the law goes to the hands of small employers, goes to the hands of reducing costs for small employers because in the current law, there were a lot of provisions that the small employer, with all due attention or ability, could not meet and then had to give to someone to do so or to do so every year and paid for it a certain amount. We've done it with this law. There was a lot of resistance. And what small employers can do for themselves is a large part of those jobs that are related to the Labour Protection Act. We've also put some things to the point where they don't repeat themselves as many times as they've repeated themselves so far, and we've been to the point where we go to the little employers. On the other hand, if you look at the violation provisions, if you look at what the safety inspectors at work are going to do, it's going to be preventive. So, every small employer will be able to call on a work protection inspector and it will be his obligation to do it with his company in which he will review all documents and advise him to correct this, it's not worth it, he won't be punished. Also, for certain violations under this law, we have imposed a measure not to impose punishment but to warn and order that within 8 days it is corrected and that it be passed either by a rule or by some of the things contained in the Labour Protection Act to resolve it. As far as the Institute for the Promotion of Labour Protection is concerned, the current Institute for Health and Safety at Work is an institution that is in the health system and is primarily concerned about work injuries, and the fact is that prevention in Croatia has not been very much dealt with and that this is one of the European Commission and the International Labour Organization's remarks that we are very little about prevention. And this Labour Protection Act is going towards prevention. To prevent it from being what's important in implementing this law. To prevent work injury is much cheaper than to treat work injury without talking about the very outcomes of death. As far as costs are concerned, we forget that we are all out of our salaries 0.5% to protect the work that was being poured into the entire health system itself and there is also academic Rainer, he was health minister, he knows that protection at work that sum was sometimes being poured over to other costs in health care, for example, paying medicines, paying a pharmacy, etc. We also separate this part into the part that will go for prevention, which will go for improvement of work protection and the part that is clearly tied to the part that is related to health care and treatment of work injuries. Therefore, it will not increase the costs but simply the costs that have been poured into the health system itself will come into the system in which they should be, which is prevention and prevention. That's the most important thing in protecting the work. When we speak injury to work to work, therefore they are not defined by this law because the employer cannot influence them. So this law defines what the employer can influence and what he can prevent. The injury on the way to work can't be prevented by the employer but it counts for work injuries and the worker has all the benefits, so all 100% of the illness and everything else that's connected to this. But it's perfectly logical that an employer can't influence someone to slip on a sidewalk and have someone have a car accident because he can't prevent it and it doesn't count as an employer or as a work injury. Therefore, they will define injuries at work at the level of the state but not at the level of the employer. The employed workers have the same rights, that's the part that's related to the Labour Act, so it's the same protection. They have to have everything the same as the part of the people who work there. In Article 34, we introduced multidisciplinaryism. So there we introduced that the Committee on Protection at Work is multidisciplinary and this is the most important part of protection at work with the employer. In medicine we define a team and it's in the Labour Protection Act. And what we want, we want to avoid trial. And that's why arbitration, it's going to be defined in part and in some parts of the Labour Act where we want to go instead of going to court and judging and agree on an arbitration agreement. If we can be in arbitration around the border with Slovenia, if we can be in arbitration somewhere else we can be in arbitration for certain parts of this law. Of course, the arbiters will be people who know the law itself and who know everything that is related to the law, they will be elected on the one hand and on the other, will be a list of arbitarians that I will bring to the Economic and Social Council. The Bureau, its director will be defined by the statutes as well as all directors and... that there must be a working protection person, a prominent expert, a public tender will be chosen, so that there I see no problems in particular that we all have in our interest that this institution has done what needs to be done and that is to raise the level of protection at work, to educate safety experts at work and what is most important that we finally have all the data that are related to protection at work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And lastly, the rules, that before the rule, I only owe the data, so here's the story of alcohol. Of the 9 deaths, from 6 deaths to date in Croatia due to work, in 1 case alcoholisation has been identified, in 2 cases it has not been controlled and in 3 it has not been controlled. Therefore, and because of this one case that we can say that we could have avoided it if the person had not been alcoholized, because of this one man, one family who lost its foster parent, we have to be very clear that 0.0 is something that should remain, because of this one person. Last year there were three previous years and more and that's what we need to think about. If that person hadn't been alcoholized, maybe she'd be alive today. And for the end, the rules, the publication of these 4 regulations which are essential for the functioning of the law itself, so the Risk Assessment Regulation, the Rules of Procedure of experts dealing with work protection and the Regulation that will regulate the work protection system itself will be published immediately by law enforcement because we have already agreed with the social partners on the text of the law. And for the other regulations, we're going to release them very quickly, and this 90-day deadline is going to be much shorter. Our goal is to make it the longest of 60 days, but I believe it will be shorter. But four key regulations enter into force immediately after the entry into force of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78539	Thank you, Minister. We're moving on to replicas. Gold shower, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78540	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, I must say that you have disappointed me with the quote of the Labourist, have you confused in your speech as minister of the work of pears and apples? You were talking about choosing for the Workers' Council what's in the Labour program. Now, elections for the Workers' Council are held in a completely different way than elections for labour protection commissioners. An election for the Workers' Council can be launched by 10% of the workers, the union can be launched. They are launching the initiative and they choose the Workers' Council by secret vote. There's nothing a employer can do about it. When it comes to selecting commissioners, the commissioners are elected at the workers' meeting, as it says in the law, and the workers' meeting calls on the Working Council or if there is no Working Council is called by the employer. Now that's completely different to you two things, and those things confuse pears and apples aren't good when you say it as a minister in public.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78541	Thank you. Answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78542	Well, I'm sorry you're interpreting your program in a number of ways. So I was talking about the principle of choice, so the election for the Workers' Council is chosen by all workers as well as the Commissioner. So, if you're stimulating the election for the Workers' Council, then it's time for all the workers to choose as well as the Commissioner to choose. So, I was talking about the principle not of how the Workers' Council is elected, it is known how they are elected, but all workers choose, and that is important, all workers choose, so all those who work in that place, who are in the interest that the person commissioner at work as well as the Working Council representing their opinions and attitudes before the employer are elected by everyone. So when we talk... Mr. Tušak, I've listened to you, therefore, Your Honor. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As far as the election itself is concerned, the workers' meeting is convened by the employer, but called by the labour inspector. And since there is, yes, a work protection inspector comes into the company and determines that there are no labour protection commissioners and orders the employer to choose by law, that means calling a workers' meeting, and choosing a commissioner. Therefore, read the laws, and it is very clear in the law. On the other hand, the Health Protection Institute itself will also have a special work protection register with the aim of raising their expertise, knowledge and that they have someone to contact if they trust. Therefore, read your own program and advocate what you stand for in the program.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78543	Thank you. Please, there will be an opportunity later or some other time to discuss these matters. Branko Vuksic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78544	I am pleased that you are reading the program of the Croatian Labour Labour Labour Party and the other thing you are interpreting, quite certainly in your own way, we will try our best in the presidency and we will interpret ourselves in your own words. Be assured that we know what the program says and that these are really two different things as much as your associate laughed at these, our interpretations. Our commitment to labour rights, our programme that speaks of labour rights, the relationship between the unions, the relationship of the employer to the worker is very clear and not ambiguous. What you're saying is very ambiguous. And secondly, which disappoints me, it does not disappoint me as a colleague of Tušak your way of interpreting rather than what you really believe in labour inspections, in the functioning of the Croatian state. Croatian state, tell me which segment in the Croatian state works? Which segment does it work? You seem to live in another country, in Sweden. So, I asked earlier, which labour inspector dares to come and object to a large capitalist? Secondly, everything you do, what this government is doing, it's doing in a big capital dictatorship. Now we're not just talking about one segment. And another thing that you said, the Labourists would accept, should be accepted for that and for that. So you don't accept the law just because of one provision, the law is accepted either as a whole or... we've said what our condition is, if we're going to accept our amendment, we will certainly support this law. If our amendments will not be accepted, so we are dissatisfied with that part, with the rest of the law we can compromise, then we will support that law. So it depends on it. However, as counterpart Novak once said, it was one of his amendments, it was the only thing accepted by Croatian Labourists, I don't know if there is any other amendment, it is evident that the dictatorship of the majority is in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78545	Thank you. Goran Maric, replica. Here you go. Excuse me, colleague Maric. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78546	It's not my idea to interpret your program, your program is public. What I've just highlighted is the principle that you advocate for the working council should be the same principle for selecting protection commissioners at work because it's the same. It is the same, so the working councils represent workers' rights in front of the employer. On the other hand, the labour protection commissioner represents the rights that workers have to protect against the employer. So it's the same principle. If you are in favour of selecting a working council, I see no reason why you should not advocate selecting a working protection commissioner in the same way. I didn't interpret your program, you just have obviously one illogicality, that the working council, yes, let's go direct selection, workers choose directly, but here you can also choose in a different way. We want, therefore, with the provision that workers have the opportunity to choose the person who will be their commissioner and the person who will be of their trust, and he will have protection, and it says in the law, the same as the working council. Therefore, if you are in favour of the direct election of a working council, for the same protection, then this Commissioner must be elected in the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78547	Thank you. And the last replica, Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78548	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I never want to be criticized for criticism, but only to have better legal solutions. And this legal solution is better than the existing one, but it can be even better. When you say that, but to hear a voice, to pay attention to something you have to be a little bit sharper and you have to be a little more picturesque, so I do it classically sometimes. But when you said we were discussing protecting some of the stakeholders, I'd like to say that whenever a group of interest groups are mentioned in this House, someone should say when they call out, which group is being protected by someone. The interest group is the largest number of participants and individuals or natural or legal persons, a very small number. It is not a Croatian people's interest group, and it should be one of our political stakeholders. When you say this law protects small ones and is improved to reduce costs to small ones, that's correct. Smaller costs are to small employers under this law and protect small ones, but in application they always get small, and they protect themselves large. Now that's the problem with all the laws of the Republic of Croatia. So I'd like to ask you, yes, now that the State Inspectorate is decommissioned, one part of your ministry. I'd like to see an analysis of the labour inspection to see how small she was, how much in large, how much did she charge the fines in total, how large? Where are these malls that have destroyed both the body and the soul of the Croatian man, how much have they paid the fine in relation to the total income, and how small are they in relation to the total income and the total number of employees, and not just nominally? And that they destroyed both the body and the soul of the Croatian man best shows that they employ fewer people in the store than we used to hire at the store 20 years ago. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78549	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78550	I believe in what I'm doing, if I didn't believe it, I wouldn't be at this job, therefore, the labour inspectorate and the protection of the work is working and better than it is, we set him up, we changed his structure, and you'll get a report on his work. What is quite certain is that the work of the labour inspectors is now different, that they, that their actions are different, every reconnaissance for certain areas goes from the other part, so we change things. And as for the interest groups themselves, I didn't mention anyone, you said yourself that the law suits the big ones. This law does not suit large ones, although large ones impose a lot of obligations that must be met and thank you for recognising that the law goes hand in hand to small employers and does not lower the cost of protection at work without jeopardising the safety of workers only. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78551	Thank you, Minister. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. For today we will conclude the session, continue on 21 May with the proposal for a law on state information infrastructure, first reading, P.Z. No. 653. Have a nice weekend. Session completed at 13.31 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78552	Proposal for a final law on protection of work, second reading, PZE No. 607. The debate on the final bill is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please let us know who's in favour. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes we have accepted the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with 83 votes for and 32 against, to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to explain. Dear Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78553	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78554	Amendment number one to the Honored Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78555	The amendment deletes the unnecessary invitation to the provision of Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78556	An explanation? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please state who is for amendment number 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 83 votes in favour and 32 votes against, have adopted Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Honored Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78557	In Article 58(3), paragraph 3 is replaced by a decimal point and the words are added: that is, the blood has a higher concentration of alcohol than the concentration allowed by the risk assessment of the jobs carried out by that worker. The amendment eases the absolute ban on alcohol labour because the lower concentration of alcohol on jobs where the worker is not exposed to increased risks does not require an absolute ban on working under the influence of low concentration alcohol in which sense. The assessment of the type of jobs where workers could work, as well as the concentration of alcohol, is determined by employers in risk assessments, so the employer determines the level of alcohol to be tolerated in the company.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78558	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja, allow him to speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78559	Dear colleagues and colleagues. The HSU Club cannot support this amendment of the Government for the reasons that it is incorrect because in the first part of the paragraph it introduces an absolute ban which it subsequently mitigates in a way that it is prescribed by an existing employer act. Namely, the risk assessment is a document, an expert document on the basis of which the employer act, so the labour rule, the collective contract regulates protection at work. I repeat, I respect everyone's profession and everyone's goals, but I represent the profession and I claim that protection at work is regulated in writing in the acts of the employer. If you didn't know, the Energy Union, chemistry, it did not metal collective labour protection contracts, collective working-time contracts, domestic collective pay contracts, and that is to be settled by collective agreement. So we stand to say that it was necessary to delete, as the amendment to the three clubs proposed, that it should have deleted the 0,0 provision because this people lived and with an allowed provision of up to 0,5 alcohol in the blood by 2008. In the debate, there are insufficient reasons why 0.0 is proposed, so I see no reason to insist on it. I suggested that the amendment of the three clubs be respected and that an item be written instead that the employer, based on his risk assessment, determines the jobs, that is, the jobs at which the entire duration must be 0,0. So then we would have one correct formulation, that is, to streamline this point of the law, and it wouldn't be so confusing, and it wouldn't fall for any possible lawsuit. I therefore appeal to you to vote on your conscience, but I don't think this is good. Also in a conversation with the minister, I told him that I accepted his suggestion in Article 59, that a new item would be given there, which would say that anyone who has a concentration greater than 0,5 permeations must be away from the workplace. That doesn't mean he has to be disciplined, but he can go to the locker room for an hour and get back to work because it's not a permanent thing. If it's 0.6 it's not a permanent thing, then it disappears after half an hour or an hour. I know that I'm going to be declared to protect drunks, which is not true at all, because up to 0.5 concentration doesn't affect man's psychomotor abilities and I only advocate what is general encyclopaedic knowledge and nothing more. We can be more Catholic than the Pope, but we won't. We can want that, but we can't make it. And secondly, if we were a state of such sobriety, I don't really believe it, and I think these are prohibition provisions that don't serve us well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78560	Thank you, Your Honor. No more interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment number two to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I find that by a majority of 76 votes in favour, 36 votes against and 3 abstentions, we have accepted amendment number two of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, making it an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number three of the respected ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78561	The amendment shall specify precisely the obligation of all employers to report the workshop and specify the time limit until which they are required to submit the notification or application of the beginning of the work and to which they are obliged to deliver.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78562	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No interest? I am finalising the debate on Amendment 3. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favor of Amendment 3. Governments of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? What's the score? I find that most of the votes of 83 votes in favour, 31 against and 2 abstentions were accepted Amendment No 3. The governments of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number four, Honored Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78563	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following they are accurately prescribed bound to work on the exploitation of forests, and construction works that are not identical. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a result, the obligations and deadlines of persons who are obliged to fulfil these obligations are more precise. In addition, given that the area of construction has been governed by specific regulations, these amendments horizontally comply with the specific regulations governing the area of construction. This also addresses the issue of emergency work when some of the prescribed obligations cannot be met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78564	I'm opening a debate on Amendment 4. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. No interest? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to the vote. Who is the amendment number four of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you. What's the score? I find that most of the votes, 83 votes in favour, 30 votes against and 2 abstentions were accepted by amendment number four of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number five, Honored Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78565	The amendment shall be accompanied by a description of the deficiencies identified in inspection supervision with the relevant Article of the Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78566	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 5. No interest? I'm closing the debate. I am putting amendments 5 to vote. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? What's the score? I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 30 votes against and 2 abstentions have been accepted by amendment 5 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and has become an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number six to the Honored Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78567	The amendment shall implement nomotechnical harmonisation, i.e. correct calls for items, and shall also replace the order of headings eight and nine.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78568	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment Six. I'm closing the debate. There's no interest. I am voting amendments number six of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that most of the votes were 82 votes in favour and 29 votes against and 2 abstentions were accepted by amendment number six of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number seven to the Honored Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78569	The description of the offence shall be consistent with amendments three and six.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78570	I am opening a debate on amendment number seven of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting amendments number seven of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? What's the score? I find that most of the votes, 82 votes in favour, 26 votes against and 4 abstentions have been accepted, Amendment 7. The governments of the Republic of Croatia became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number eight to the Honored Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78571	The description of the offence shall be in accordance with Amendment Three.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78572	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment number eight of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. What's the score? I find that most votes, 81 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 6 abstentions are accepted. 8 The Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. Nine respected ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78573	The amendment shall implement nomotechnical harmonisation, i.e. correcting the reference to items.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78574	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. Nine. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment No. Nine. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 26 votes against and 5 abstentions are accepted. 9 Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final bill. Now we're moving on to the amendments. You have a list of clubs, respected ministers. HSU Representatives' Club, Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78575	Article 3 does not accept the amendment because it does not contribute to the clarity of the norm. In fact, mental changes are consistent with a change of personality. Therefore, we did not feel that we still need to add that mental changes are related to a person.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78576	In the name of the applicant, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78577	Well, unlike the relationship to my profession, I will respect your profession and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78578	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 2 Legislative Committee, Honored Ministers?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78579	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78580	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No. 3 Clubs of HSU Representatives, Honorable Ministers? Amendment to Article 11
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78581	It is not accepted that, in addition to the amendment, it is necessary to amend further 7 articles but we believe that better determination of work by effect or by time should be done and that we will do so in an amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78582	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78583	So I thank you for understanding what we are going to do but it would not be the first amendment of the Government, or the tenth amendment of the Government, can be taxed in which articles that change that term. Because you know this was written by someone who the world of working in a physical sense saw and did not distinguish work by effect and work by time. These are both forms of normal work, but they are essentially very different. Work by effect is work is exhausting, by piece on financial effects, and work by time is something that preserves both health and psychophysical condition of the body workers. So, of course, I'm in a stalemate right now because if I asked to vote and even if it did, then it would be fixed in one place, and the other ten wouldn't, so I'm going to make one right move and say I'm pulling this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78584	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 4 Legislative Committee, Honored Ministers?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78585	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78586	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No. Five club representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78587	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78588	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. Six respected representatives of Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78589	The amendment is not accepted in the light of the fact that it is only a replacement of the working council's consent, i.e. a union commissioner for the use of supervisory devices. The judicial replacement of such consent shall be assessed contrary to the principle of economicity and efficiency, in particular because of the long-term duration of such proceedings. The arbitration procedure is faster and cheaper than the ordinary court procedure, such an arbitration decision will in no way make it impossible to access the court because workers who consider that their supervisory devices are injured will be able to initiate judicial proceedings in order to protect their dignity in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78590	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78591	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, setting up cameras is a sensitive question. Part of the camera when not only used for the protection of property but they can also be placed to affect the privacy of workers and to cause certain discomfort among workers. Just a disagreement of the Workers' Council on the installation of such cameras, we believe that the solution offered in law only to be resolved through arbitration is not good, but arbitration should be left to parties who are willing to settle their dispute by arbitration to be resolved. If the parties are not willing to deal with arbitration, it would have to be a court case. Especially since the government's programme of the Republic of Croatia states that working courts will be introduced and that working courts will be effective in solving certain problems, and this has not been done to date and would also have a case law to prevent the abuse of cameras that would affect the privacy of workers and cause discomfort. So please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78592	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. Six respected representatives of Zlatko Tušak, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Please, Amendment No. Seven, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78593	The amendment is accepted in the amended text. Instead of replacing these terms, it is proposed to add the concept of human relations as one of the stressers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78594	The applicant for the amendment to the Club of Representatives of HSU, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78595	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78596	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 8 also the Club of Representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78597	Not accepted, the word consumption proposed is to replace a general term that has been applied not only in relation to alcoholic beverages but also in other means of addiction as well as in medicines. The Croatian word is drinking, but we still agreed that consumption is a common way of expressing it to remain in the text of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78598	The applicant of the amendment, the club of representatives of HSU and the respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78599	Using words of broader importance in nomotechnics can only speak for the poverty of one language. In Croatian, there are precise words for certain acts, so it is about drinking alcoholic beverages and taking the means of addiction. So we believe that our statement is more precise than the one represented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I ask the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78600	I ask you to come forward with an amendment number eight. A party of representatives of the Croatian pensioner's party, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 9. Three club representatives, respected ministers, HSU, HNS and SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78601	The amendment is not accepted because the intensity of the promoter is the introduction of a culture of non-drinking, and the prevention of the growing problem of alcoholism in the Republic of Croatia as well as... any possible causes which could lead to addiction or injury to work, and the amendment of the Government has made observations during the debate that a certain amount of alcoholic beverages may be enjoyed during the work process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78602	On behalf of three clubs, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78603	The intensity was to get the prohibition provision kicked out of the law because so far the law has worked without such provisions. We didn't get enough arguments for that. But I know how this amendment will go, so will Amendment 3. Governments, that is, in the opposite way. However, I would now address Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament as a function of avoiding any possible hypocrisy, please do not serve today's champagne, since we do not have a risk assessment, and this is our place of work, so at least to avoid public criticism. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78604	I'm going to do a qualified form of work, so I'm going to break the rule, and I'm going to answer for it. Are you asking for a vote or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78605	We're looking.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78606	I'm asking you to come forward with an amendment number nine, three club representatives that the government doesn't accept, who's in favor? Thank you. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 10. Honored Minister of Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78607	The amendment is not accepted. The principle on which the participation of workers in decision-making in the European Union guidelines is based is based on the participation of workers in decision-making by the choice of their representatives representing their interests as employers. The union commissioners and commissioners appointed by workers are primarily representatives of their members, not of all employees of the employer, in which sense it is necessary for the labour protection commissioner to be elected from all workers in direct elections in order to represent interests and protect the rights of all workers in the field of protection. We promote the participation of workers in decision-making. On the other hand, we want every worker to decide on the protection of his work because that is what is important to him to preserve his health and his life.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78608	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78609	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment, this does not prevent what the minister was talking about, could the meetings of workers be called either by law by a working council or by an employer. In the event that the employer does not call a workers' meeting and the company does not have a working council, it is not possible to convene a meeting of workers and employers then to decide whether to be elected or not to elect a work protection commissioner. From that title, if the employer does not call a workers' meeting and there is no sanction that in law, he will be punished if he does not do so then there remains room for the union to name a labour protection commissioner who would only contribute to the quality and control of protection at work. So, we don't accept this argument and I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78610	Please state the amendment to the 10th Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you. I estimate, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment to the 11th Honored Representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78611	It's the same explanation as the last one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78612	Is it accepted or not accepted?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78613	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78614	It's unacceptable. Thank you very much. I'd like the Honorable Representative of Silvana Hrelja to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78615	Since it's the exact same amendment, I can see how it went into use function, better use, withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78616	Okay. Thank you very much. Amendment number 12. Club of representatives of the Croatian Party of Retirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78617	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78618	Yes, thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78619	It shall be accepted in the amended text. The word "secured supervision" adds "secured health supervision", and the words "treasures" are added behind the words "in the course of work".
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78620	In the name of the applicant, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78621	Acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78622	It becomes in this modified form an integral part of the final draft law. Amendment number 14. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78623	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78624	Thank you very much. Amendment number 15. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78625	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78626	Thank you very much. Amendment number 16 of MP Zlatka Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78627	It is not accepted in order to encourage the direct selection of labour protection commissioners from all employees, we consider it necessary for employers to break existing practice that in many cases they do not know the duration of the term of office of appointed labour protection commissioners in which it is necessary for all workers employed in the Republic of Croatia to choose their labour protection commissioners equally. In this regard, we do not find any particular problems in the selection of Commissioners in employers who employ up to 20 workers because the Labour Act stipulates that all employers are obliged, no matter how long they employ, at least twice a year to convene a meeting of workers under the Labour Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78628	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78629	Thank you, Mr. President. Elections for working councils are usually held for the third and fourth months and this year, according to existing legislation, elections have been held for the working council, and in addition to the election for the working council, or protection commissioners have been elected at work or under the current provisions of the law are appointed officers of protection at work. By applying their legal elected or appointed mandate under the current regulations, we are calling it off, they should all re-implement the procedure within 60 days with the fact that where it is not, the working council does not act, but the employer should convene a workers' meeting may happen that we will not now have the commissioners of protection at work. And that's why I think this is a very bad solution and that it goes backwards that the elected commissioners under the current legislation have to be re-elected, but it will depend in some cases in the employers' companies on whether they will call together workers' meetings. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78630	I would like to make a statement on Amendment 16, the respected representative of Zlatka Tušak, who is not accepted by the government. Who's in? I estimate, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 17, Honored Ministers, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78631	It shall be adopted in part in the amended text of the amendments of the Legislative Committee to the Final Proposal of the Labour Act, in the part in which calls are corrected in Article 103, paragraphs 3, 4 and 6 until the proposed correction of the Committee in relation to paragraph 7 can be accepted because those rules will not cease to apply by the adoption of the rules referred to in paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 but will continue to apply after the entry into force of this law until the need for their amendments, or the adoption of new ones, is established.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-16-0.u78632	On behalf of the Committee Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Sustained.]] In the amended form, the accepted amendment became an integral part of the final proposal for a law. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 76 for, 23 against and 6 abstentions, have been passed by the Law on protection at work, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Dear fellow MPs and esteemed fellow MPs, good morning. Allow a little attention before moving to the agenda of today's plenary session. Please, yes, and we agreed that, at the beginning of the meeting, Deputy Prime Minister Ranko Ostojić would give information, report on the situation in flooded areas, people at risk, property in Croatia. I think that, in addition to that, your colleagues and fellow MPs, it would be good, and I suggest that our personal, personal decision, our parliamentary relationship with the flooded areas show solidarity in the agreement of representatives clubs, first of all, in clubs and clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, in order to have, I would say, a balanced, united position, so that MPs can show solidarity with citizens at risk of flooding. Secondly, as the Croatian Parliament, so representatives as institutions, the representative body of citizens will have the opportunity as well as the obligation to express solidarity and wisdom and responsibility in our work for the flooded citizens of the Republic of Croatia in Eastern Slavonia, but also to think and creatively about how to get ahead or how to prevent such events in the future, whether to decide on the budget of the Republic of Croatia, on legal projects or on the reports of the competent services and bodies of the Croatian State that are responsible for this situation. Fourthly, I also want to say that we are solid and full, I would say attention and solidarity are monitored by events in neighbouring countries, BiH and Serbia. And finally, here I have printed and you will get account numbers that are open, so Croatian Red Cross and Croatian Caritas, account numbers, and after we agree in the club representatives and all clubs preferably in the Croatian Parliament to turn our individual personal decision into a single payment for help. If we can agree to first hear the report of the Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Ranko Ostojić, and then we'll give. What? You'd rather? Here you go.
