ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89490	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Since today the team is here to say from the Ministry of Economy and since so far in the Croatian Parliament not once, and there are so many problems in connection with RIZ Transmitters, privatisations, problems with DUDI, CERRP and others, and given the struggle of the employees of the RIZ Transmitter for survival, and I ask the exporters to pause for 10 minutes to talk and that the gentlemen of the Ministry of Economy hear what the MPs have to say about it if they want to hear it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89491	Honorable representative Branko Vuksic is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89492	Please take a break for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89493	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar needs a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89494	I'm looking for a club break on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89495	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89496	On the same subject, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89497	Thank you very much. I'm determining... it's, like, five...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89498	But not on the same subject, not on the same subject. I mean, I don't know what it is, what kind of practice this is, I guess people are making arrangements before they can just ask for a break. I think that practice, I'll do the visibly...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89499	My dear colleague, I think it's a good idea for the MPs to discuss their problems with each other no matter how much I agree with their...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89500	It's good to talk, but not to rule it out, it's actually because they could call, so they'd probably go online and find something that's actually...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89501	Your Honor, to solve the problem, allow me, the esteemed representative Damir Cain raises his hand and has a problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89502	I have no problem, Mr. President. I have no problem but I am looking for a break in front of the club to simply update the problem of performance in the Republic of Croatia in those five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89503	Okay, but at the same stop. Thank you very much. I'm taking a break from 10 minutes. We're at 9.45 at the beginning. It's 9:00.35. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] I ask the representatives of the clubs to present their views on the topics they have announced. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, related to the RIZ Transmitters.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89505	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry of Economy. I have to talk about not telling the tragedy of the RIZ now the Transmitter, otherwise once a big firm. Now there are 230 employees, mostly electrical engineering engineers, engineering, computer and similar professions, and that is exclusively an export-oriented company. This company, as you yourself know, manufactures and sells highly sophisticated technology in the area of transmitters and Japan and South Korea. So, very demanding markets, not to mention the markets of Yemen, Myanmar, India, etc. And now you, too, at the Ministry of Economy, say that every day you boast about the increase in exports. At the same time, it happens that criminal conversion, privatisation into RIZ transmitters, so the only remaining firm, so RIZ, is still going on. I'm not saying that the whole government is so focused on this government, but individuals from the government are connected to certain individuals in the entrepreneurship spheres, not to say mobsters where they implement such decisions and such intentions that lead the RIZ transmitters to the situation that they've been here 15 times in Mark's square, that they've written to both the President of the Parliament and the Prime Minister and the President of the State several times, but nothing has been solved. This is why I am here today, to talk publicly in the Croatian Parliament about the problems that affect RIZ employees and whose problems are publicly written in the media. The names "DORH" are mentioned, "DORH" doesn't do anything about it. There are applications. But there's no advertising, no DORH, no UskoK. Is it a family relationship, because one of the shareholders is also related to a DORH employee without talking about the others. We need to talk at the end about the names that are here, which the employees of the RIZ transmitters mention, and also mention Kamila Vrana, the man known for the embezzlement of the goods reserves, Robert Hirec from the Zagorec affair and imports of garbage for our MiGs. Some kind of Inkret, etc. Loud and clear. It also mentions the construction to say entrepreneurship that went to Bozidarevic 13, so to the location where it is located today on the edge of the Maksimir forest, the Maksimir park that has already brought both meters and measured, so it marked what it would look like. The pearls of Maksimir to be called the business-house space that would be built in the area, and the amount would be 60 million euros some investment, and the sale I don't know how much. Why destroy, why our DUDI, so the State Department of State Property Management, I'd rather call it a state in the state. It's the same thing, DUDI, so it's CERRP. So, Mrs. Pejnovic and Deanovic, who are the directors of these agencies. I'd like to call the CERP sales center. That's what it would be, is CERRP actually called the Restructure and Sales Center. It's a sales center, actually, when it comes to RIZ and when it comes to the situation. In DUDI today, the people who delivered Gucic, Kutli, are working to deliver 160 companies. These employees are still working at that agency. It used to be called a fund, so it was AUDIO, so now it's DUDI, but the same people decide on it. Although the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance has determined and ordered that, therefore, it comes out to meet such an export company, DUDI and CERP, continue to strain and are subject to the influence of these to call an entrepreneur or as I would say here a mobster. That is why, when you are already present here, and it is the ESOP, therefore, employee stockholdering and a debt of HRK 108 million that the Ministry of Finance or the State owes to RIZ on the basis of interest and exchange rate differences, which is in court. I wouldn't get involved in that. So I wouldn't get involved in that. It's a judicial matter. But when we take all this into account, then we see that there are justifiable protests and justifiable reasons for the dissatisfaction of 230 employees of the RIZ Transmitter. Because that way, such a course of action really causes suspicion, causes dissatisfaction. If we're already talking about state property management, if we're talking about ESOP, that's employee stockholdering. You have observations DUDI acted in Vartex and Valpovo according to regulations, and now for RIZ he can't. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89506	Dear colleague Grubisic, I must warn you that you have easily leveled entrepreneurs with mobsters based on one... Yes, it is. [[You can't hear it.]] That's not acceptable in any situation. No, you said they're called entrepreneurs, I'd say they're mobsters, quote. It's not acceptable, it's not good, and it's not true. In every society or group, there are good and bad, even among coyotes, so that there are no people. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89507	I accept your objection.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89508	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89509	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Of course most businessmen, employees in the economy aren't mobsters and we can't even ourselves with the mobster. And I don't think that's what my colleague Grubisic meant, but he used a style figure clumsyly. When RIZ's agony began in 1990, the RIZ workers came to the first Prime Minister, Mr. Manolic, and at that time RIZ had $25m in his account. In that privatisation robbery, the company was estimated at $13.5m worth of the company. True, part of the money was in Belgrade, part of the money could not be available, but there were some 150 million deals agreed at the time. And when the converted machinations began then Mr. Manolić, according to the testimony of these workers, the director who at the time were the means at the head of the RIZ said the directors should be our people. But nothing has changed since 1990. Every government is looking for our people, every government is setting up, and that is, the agony of the Croatian economy. RIZ is just a viewing specimen. When parties are placed in companies or privatised and sold to them, it means when they are not privatised and sold to them or donated to them, or to state companies incompetent appliances, former directors of the chairs are placed at the head of the power plant. It's a model. The RIZ survived despite 25 years of trying to destroy it. The story of yesterday, the Immunological Institute and RIZ are very similar stories, two competing companies, two companies that have jobs, two companies that have to fight not for jobs but have to fight the state to keep them from being destroyed by the state. They say we can't interfere in private sector affairs. That's not true. Countries that are far longer in capitalism, countries that are tiling neoliberal capitalism have certainly intervened in the private sector when it was necessary. They even intervened, and then when it was visible that these private companies were breaking up with some programs, they ordered it. I was talking about the example of South Korea, which is one of the most prominent examples of how the economy rises. The state is there to intervene, it's not just the state to intervene when companies fall into losses and help them with the money. Rather than knowing what he wants, to employ as many workers as possible, to rule the law, but in Croatia the RIZ case shows the government something under the table, not the government's right, the injustice of the government. Because if there wasn't an injustice, the RIZ would have gotten rid of it a long time ago. Why should the RIZ workers visit Mark's square 25 times without anyone from the government handling it? I'm talking about the judicial, legislative and executive authority, all three authorities. What does the legislative authority do? How can an object be solved for 25 years? How does no one have a solution? Here I agree with Mr Grubisic it is an attractive space, many Croatian tycoons who are enriched overnight do not know anything but build skyscrapers because there was the easiest hunt. And that logic remained today, and that logic destroyed part of the economy because it was being built, and it was not known what would be done with what was being built. And now he wants to take advantage of that land. I would trust these people to first create plants for RIZ modern somewhere else and to sell that space that is piling in the center of the city next to the most beautiful park in Zagreb. The government should intervene in the judiciary when necessary, let alone in crime if crime happens. And the workers say there's a crime going on at the RIZ. Looks like someone always wants ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89510	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the club, same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89511	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The RIZ workers addressed all the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament with only one request. I'll read it for clarity. "We ask that the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia obliges the Government to make a decision on the basis of which the CERRP of the RIZ shares will apply to the RIZ according to the proposal of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance." They address MPs and clubs to make a final decision by using the Business Institute to propose a conclusion to the Council of Government finally after several years of avoiding decision-making on the shares of the RIZ which are now state-owned and allowing them to continue managing their company. They do not know, of course, and do not need to know that the system of proposing conclusions towards the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament has a problem in passing on average from the proposal of the conclusion in the procedure and the opening of the debate from 6 months to 4 years. And using that right by the rules of procedure right now at this point, we can't help RIZ workers. Unfortunately, because of the practice in the Croatian Parliament. Because of practices where opposition proposals are cooked from 6 months to 4 years on the agenda. But there is another problem, if such a proposal were to be referred to the procedure, it would be declared contrary to the law because, unfortunately, the Law on State Property Management of the Parliament transferred all powers to the government. And for that reason, Mr. President, we need to use the Institute of Pauses, the pauses on matters that are urgent, which simply by regular procedure in the Assembly cannot come to debate. A few years ago, I was dealing with RIZ and their few dozen million dollars that were standing, first they were hidden, and they were standing in a jury account in Washington. It took six years for that money to come to Croatia. And then instead of their money, their export-made money, the state turned it into equity stakes in the RIZ, about six years ago. The problem, the desire, the projection of GDP growth on exports, have contracted orders of 10 million kuna exports, shortly before the delivery of electronic devices to South Korea 2.5 million dollars. They don't ask for money from the state, they don't ask for favors, they don't ask for help, they've prepared an ESA programme that the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance agreed to forward to the government and the government to make the final decision, that's all. Do we have the right and obligation as parliamentary representatives to pressure the government to finally decide? This debate is putting pressure on the government. And it just so happens that the representatives of the Ministry of Economy are here. Whenever such day-to-day important topics are opened by the President or by the chairman of the Parliament, they are a reproof, a rebuke for the abuse of a break because we are opening topics in which the debtors are not informed, or because there is no one from the Government, so there can be no dialogue, no answer to those claims. Today, the government's representatives are here. They may not decide directly, but the appeal and application on behalf of the RIZ workers if it is true that the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance, and I trust the workers, gave a positive opinion on the ESA model in the RIZ, finally put it on the agenda and you deal with the Croatian economy. Don't make the prime minister of Turkemistan again, or some apartment calls and asks why you haven't solved the Immunology, why you haven't solved the RIZ now as he called you the other day when he was out.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89512	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I agree with you that the task of the opposition is to pressure the government, to control it, that I would only like to propose that regardless of when we discuss them to find themselves on the agenda a proposal for a conclusion, a proposal for an act, or to go a representative issue with what you're using, it's okay, it's a practice, and you have it, but then to implement it in a material form. You're asking for an attorney's question, a motion for a debate, you're putting pressure on me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89513	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89514	We'll put the conclusion on the agenda as you suggest. Let's move on with the debate. Honorable representative Goran Maric on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89515	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Lesar, not only do we have the right as you were saying, we have an obligation to talk about all the side effects that occur in Croatia. We have only afforded ourselves the right to empty political verbalism, and we do not respond to what is harmful and undesirable to society as a whole. I won't say what's going on there, and if there's a crime because it's not mine to say, but that there's an unwanted phenomenon and it's harmful and it's something to talk about, that they're closed all the doors to talk about, that they write unnecessarily in letters because nobody answers letters about it, that someone should talk about doing their job irresponsiblely, why someone doesn't receive someone even asking, and why they don't answer the letter if they're writing ten or twenty times about it, that's what they need to talk about. If you did every job responsible and professional problem with RIZ, there wouldn't be at all. But someone obviously doesn't do their job responsibly, someone bows to something rather than to the common good. We do not notice the Croatian drama through which many companies and workers of some Adriatic stone companies pass through the Immunological to RIZ. But what concerns most is such a contempt of policy towards production, according to the most important activity in Croatia and in each country, according to production activity. It is a long-standing insolence towards production in Croatia, worrying about this insolence. If it were a shopping mall for someone else, it would have been a problem solved by the RIZ long ago, it would have been about bypasses at the expense of the state budget, but it would have been solved, and when the production we only like to talk about is nothing done. And imagine which set of engineers' brains is exporting the most subtle products where, in a public competition in Korea and Japan. And those don't get to talk, they don't interview, they don't even know who the director of such a successful company is. So if we don't at least help him let's not get away with it. But we keep working and everybody shuts up about these kinds of phenomena. Neither the Director of DUDI nor the Director of CERRP nor the Prime Minister responds, no one responds, no one reacts to the request for reception. They've all found some comfortable leeway and don't respond to these kinds of phenomena, but we've come here because of these behaviors. Because of the situation, I will repeat, from the dramas of Kamenski, Jadrankamen, Immunological, RIZ, that I do not list dozens and hundreds of companies where workers are damaged, where their salaries are not paid, where we have failed and political trust, we could deeply bend our head from shame. The state must have a solution for everything. There's no problem the government can't solve if it wants to. But if there's no government solution for problems, then it's the only solution, you know what. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89516	Thank you too, dear colleague. Damir Cain, the esteemed representative on the subject of the occasion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89517	... The Croatian Chamber of Commerce says that 20,000 families in the Republic of Croatia lost their homes due to unpaid debts, mostly according to business banks. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] The number of property seized in 2013 increased by almost 20% compared to previous years and what concerns me particularly, which is the most precisely in Istria, over a thousand and something, I have data, but I couldn't find them today. In Zagreb about 600, in the Primorje-Gorski County 300, etc. In one word, we are followed by a failure of the social system in the Republic of Croatia. Or to be even more precise, in 2006, we had 319 commissions over real estate, buildings, houses, anyway, apartments, 2009. 2579, 2013 4784. So that's about 10 grand somewhere, the Chamber of Commerce is talking about 20 grand taken from apartments. 253 thousand 350 workers have a blocked account, they owe 18 billion kuna. In one year, the number of blocked citizens increased by 34,000 574 or an additional 4.5 billion kuna. In one word, we must introduce a personal bankruptcy of individuals because this is no longer the case. We have, gentlemen, lawyers, lawsuits for one unpaid kuna. Now the cities, the municipalities, dare I say even more insolently than the banks. Personally, I believe that, first of all, this one insolentness of financial institutions should be contained. I agree that almost 17 or 18% of all loans in this country are not paid and this is a huge problem that can endanger not only the banking system, but also the Croatian state's sustainability system, bring us back to where we were in '96, '97, '98. when we witnessed the day's collapse or the bankruptcy of certain banks. One word, as Mr. Maric used to say before me, we must help people, we must seek, so as politics or state, we must ask that banks help people. The small sector is literally on its knees, it won't survive, people are guaranteeing their entire assets, and without everything overnight for the next few years, maybe it will stay. We have this Income Act that should now allow workers 100 to 150 or 200 kuna higher wages, through new taxes local self-government will simply take everything from them. But I reported it primarily because of a case from Pula, Pulanka Nina Topic, who works otherwise in Toronto, which lost an apartment in Pula worth more than 253,000 kuna due to a debt to a Zagreb bank of 2909 kuna. The bank settled nicely in the executive procedure, after real estate was sold to the Aktiva Capital real estate agency for only 126 thousand kuna. It is fortunate that the Constitutional Court has temporarily delayed the implementation of this solution in the entry of a new owner in the land book, but the question remains, so that Mrs. Topic, who in Canada regularly paid off the loan war for the apartment, probably lost that 2900 and as far as I said, 9 kuna. Now I'm not going to talk about starting a constitutional suit, but once again I want to appeal that we all try to find a way to help people in this situation because of the debt of 2, 3 or 5, 10 thousand, maximum, the kuna doesn't run out of family property, without what they and their families just built for centuries.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u89518	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations of representatives' clubs on topics they have chosen, and now we are going in line with the established agenda, in a debate on agenda points. It is next - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 766 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Allen Leveric, Deputy Minister of Economy. Here you go, dear colleague Leveric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95661	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's attorneys and MPs. I wish to introduce you to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia. The Strategic Investment Projects Act entered into force on 14 November 2013, so far the implementation of the law has shown certain shortcomings and therefore the amendments and additions to the law are proposed in order to remove the shortcomings. Some of the issues that the amendments and additions of the Strategic Investment Projects Act are intended to be regulated are that the new provision of this bill proposes to prescribe a process of selecting potential strategic projects that could be realised on a property over which the Republic of Croatia has a sub-half-capital co-owned part according to the state of the land books or real estate over which the Republic and units of local, regional (regional) self-government have a supra-domestic majority co-owned part, which is spatially planned for the development of investment projects or marine goods, if it makes up a functional and business whole with those properties. The selection of an interested investor for the implementation of a potential strategic project shall be made on the basis of a public call. Furthermore, the majority of investment projects previously reported did not have a closed financial structure and, by amending and supplementing this law, allows investors to submit more easily and flexible financial documentation related to the project. The relevant law stipulates that the investor must have a closed financial structure, i.e. fully secured sources of financing of the project itself. The new provision of this bill is that a private investor, within 60 days of the date of the Government's decision to declare a strategic project, must provide proof to the Ministry of Economy of the guaranteed sources of financing of at least 10% of the total value of the project involving a bank guarantee of a domestic or foreign bank or a dedicated deposited cash within a period of 9 months. Another novelty in the draft amending and supplementing the law is that an interested investor, private or public-private project, reports to the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, respectively, to the AIK. In the case of a private or public energy project, the interested investor shall report to the Centre for the Monitoring of the Business of the Energy Investment Sector, or CEI. When it comes to a public project, an interested investor reports a project to the Ministry of Economy. Furthermore, in addition to a provision relating to the conclusion of an agreement on the preparation and implementation of projects with a private investor concluded by the Minister of Economy, the text of the agreement has been added to request the opinion and consent of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and the State's Attorney's Office, as the problem of the international treaty on the promotion and mutual protection of investments in the competence of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and the State's attorney represents the Republic of Croatia in proceedings before courts and administrative bodies and protects its property interests. The Committee for the Assessment and Determination of the Proposals for Strategic Projects from its first session to today has also received 62 applications from projects that have requested the status of strategic projects in the Republic of Croatia. Of the 62 applications 34 are public investment projects and 28 are private investment projects. Public projects cover the area of energy, infrastructure, transport, environmental protection, tourism, communal economy, and are privately covered in most areas of tourism, energy and infrastructure. Of the 62 applications, 3 projects have been declared strategic projects. It's Plomin, Pishkornica and the Containment Terminal of Zagreb dock. Two projects are on the list of strategic projects, which is LNG terminal and the reconstruction of the airport runway in Mali Losinj. Eight projects are in the final preparation for the commission of six energy projects and two infrastructure projects. Also 22 projects are currently under processing. When it comes to current processing, there is then a high stage of preparation, which means additional opinions by the state administration authority or the necessary additional institutions are missing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95662	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have one replica, a respected representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95663	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Minister, it seems to me when the law already changes in the first year then it was not as well prepared as it was at the beginning. Obviously, a story about the problems in strategic investment was not well set up. It also seems to me after these changes that there will be problems again especially when you state in the law that land will be practically given in which most of the shares of the Republic of Croatia are in land books. You didn't list the cadastre, and I'm warning you right now. The differences between land books and catastra are great in Croatia, and you will find that most of the shares in land books are owned by the Republic of Croatia and that natural persons are enrolled in the cataster. This will virtually block your natural persons from these major strategic projects. Well-meaningly, I'm warning you because you're about to re-emerge in front of this House with new changes and additions soon. I'd like to know how many of these projects you've listed have already been solved, since DUDI is going with 100 projects, too, has not made much progress. That's where you listed three projects that are about to be completed. What about all the others, have they been preparing for almost a year or since this law was passed?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95664	The reply to the replica, respected Deputy Minister Allen Leveric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95665	Thank you very much. Dear Parliamentarians, just to remind you this law was in two readings, there were two public debates accepted by all comments and suggestions and professions and all others. But what grieved at that time was then the economy minister said there were no proposals by the opposition to supplementing this law. Let me also say about the projects you know that each project has its own stages of preparation and we are confident and forsaking projects out of these 22 projects that I have stated are at the last stage, I expect to report them almost on the list of strategic projects, and therefore every project that becomes a strategic project is publicly published, so transparency here is very important. As for this catastra section, I am convinced that these changes and additions will prove to be of quality and will no longer go into parliamentary changes and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95666	Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament Committee wish to present reports? No, no one. We move to the debate on the proposed law by the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives Linic, Vuksic, Hodzic. On behalf of the club, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95667	Thank you, Mr. President, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Our club will accept the proposed amendments and additions to the law. However, we believe that it is good to see certain shortcomings in the implementation of the law so that the competent authorities can still be more effective. We agree with the proposal that simply the property we have alone, together with local self-government, by accelerated processes, we allow a public tender to be given to investors and that, in fact, without spending on the premises, they may go into the investment itself. We also agree with procedures when applying to CEI, when directly to the Ministry and particularly looking after energy projects. Here's an observation that fear of possible disagreements, misunderstandings tomorrow we're having court disputes, and we're resuscitating administration. Because if we have to ask for an additional, simple opinion of the DORH of the Foreign Ministry, let it be aggravating procedure. So here in the first two, three solutions we're trying to speed up the procedure and here we're going to make the procedure more difficult again. So regardless of all the risks, especially when we talk about whether the DORH is going to give a positive opinion as to whether the agreement we're signing could have a problem and consequences, you won't get an opinion so quickly. The suggestion is think about it, we don't want to suggest anything, but think about it and give it up, give it up. Let's ask ourselves what the law's intention is, so the law's intention is investment and jobs. And where are we today? A million 340 thousand employees and the government's budget plan that we'll be at the end of next year at a million and 300 thousand. What's the basic problem? There's no investment. And now for some bad deal, some risk we'll have under contract, we'll be stalling the procedure again, and it still doesn't matter where we work. Try to compare the importance of speed, efficiency that we have these jobs compared to that we may have a risky contract that ere DORH will have after problems in protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia because perhaps in time something has not been reacted. Therefore, it seems to us to be a bad provision and we would still prefer to give it up. There's something else that's important to say. Today it is becoming harder to decide each employee, and believe me, it will not be easy for me to make decisions in any risky business, having risky decisions because the administration would rather place the subject in the table. And if we just get any problem solution, it'll be harder to make a decision. And we think the hardest thing today is to make a decision and stand out of a decision and precisely because of the huge risks. The opinion of our club is that the workplace is the most important. If the workplace is the most important then we must have the responsibility to take these risks and make decisions and not try to protect our decisions with other opinions just so that we can sleep more peacefully. And that's a suggestion not to suggest such a solution. But let's ask ourselves if the law is just a problem. Apparently it's not the law problem, it's not the law problem. We all wanted more jobs, more financial investment activity, which we felt with this law we had greater guarantees that the gross social product would grow in the Republic of Croatia we remained disappointed. The law passed somewhere early in the fall last year and what do we have in realisation? Three projects that are, for example, adopted by this law as strategic projects, two potential and about 8 in preparation, 22 we expect. After a year, no project has been implemented under this system. So it's not just this system that's the problem. The biggest problem is when we see what three projects have been implemented, these are state projects especially in HEP. Is there a problem then? It's not. It is evident that the problem with asset management is in the management of companies. And that's our biggest problem. We do not have enough capable personnel to speed up their procedures, they need to bury what the first shovels say because they mean a new job, it means more investment market offers and more possibility for Croatian companies to have a larger number of employees. Therefore, we should simply also evaluate through this law, which is a problem in the management of our assets, why we are so efficient and why we haven't solved the efficiency of investments in HEP, why we haven't solved our relations with INA and simply invested in both refineries. What is the problem that the railway did not simply complete its strategic project in certain directions and received a document that really was strategic information. So much when we talk about our responsibility where we can really determine responsibility, where we can simply insist on greater efficiency and on a greater fight for new jobs. It is therefore a disappointment that in the last election year, when just such investments as have been declared strategic, they must be an investment engine, an engine of increasing the number of employees, not a reduction in the number of employees in 2015. What about the private sector? As much as he's even interested, from all this I'd say the data we have, there's no big interest in the private investment sector. Then let's ask ourselves a question about what the problem is. The law we've passed, so the state wants private investors to help, but obviously it's not just the speed of solving property-legal relations, the speed of acquisition on some kind of state property or even rounding up that space, the bigger problem is business conditions. And then we ask ourselves, and what happens to business conditions that the private sector remains reserved according to these options when we look at the law, according to the possibility that the reinvested profit is not paid profit tax, that it is stimulated, that we also have a number of stimulations when it comes to first employment of workers. The conditions of business are clearly a problem. I would, however, say here in the first place that important changes in the efficiency of the judiciary have not been made because, nevertheless, a high-quality, fast judiciary guaranteeing every investor the safety of investments, the speed of realization on the judicial bodies of possible disputes, and that in that part we have not significantly resolved. We haven't even solved the indifference. Although the Financial Business Act has been passed it is evident that liquidity is beginning to grow again. Individence, unfortunately, is influenced by state bodies, state-owned companies. After these recent amendments to the legislation, income tax will have a return to liquidity due to the liquidity of local and regional self-government units. Therefore, when we look at it in such a condition of business, the private sector becomes very cautious and simply insufficiently engaged to want to invest in the project. Therefore, if we really want to seriously analyse what is very important for Croatia, why is this situation in our investment activity in the Republic of Croatia and in the state bodies and in the private sector... we see this legal state not doing its job and that the rule of law does not guarantee investment security, the speed of resolving all conflicts of interest in the processes of economic activity and in the market of the Republic of Croatia and that the rest of the bodies, the rest of the ministries should be able to address the problems of strengthening investment, how to increase the safety of every investor in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I repeat again, I appreciate that it is good that and I would say to the dead period of investment that we are changing the law when we have established what is possible... with quick decisions, but also with this law to send a message that all bodies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia need to examine how guilty they are of a weak investment environment in the Republic of Croatia, which they must change in their legal regulations in order to guarantee the safety and efficiency of any investors outside the Republic of Croatia. With this law, obviously we will not solve investments in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95668	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have a few replicas. The first replica and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95669	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Linic, you said, of course, that I agree with, you actually analyzed what the intention of this law should be, and you said that certainly more investment and job creation, so employment. I agree, this should be the intention of all the laws that are passed in the Croatian Parliament regarding the economy, finance and so on. However, I'm afraid these changes will not do that either. In fact, a year of the life of this law has unfortunately shown that the law did not encourage what you were talking about, means no new investment or job creation. I'm afraid even the changes won't help. The law is, in that sense, powerless. And on the other hand, I think it opens up one problem that we should say something about in this debate and probably the promoters and perhaps further explain. In fact, a new concept is being introduced, and these are potential strategic projects that can be realised as can be seen in the maritime good as well. Which are actually potential strategic projects we don't know. This bill does not explain it to the end. And of course those new benefits of only 10% of the investment potential that a potential investor must present also raises a number of questions and doubts. In one word, what do I mean? Some of the problems you've been talking about could certainly lead to the goal we're talking about, which is more investment than any special law that has proved to be, I repeat, powerless. This law reminds me of the Golf Law if you remember who it was at the time of my government finally then and abolished because there were golf courses all, in fact golf courses could be further built and through existing laws and no special law had to be passed which opened up a series of problems and didn't lead to realization... [[/The Intruder President: Thank you very much esteemed MPs. Time's up.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95670	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95671	My colleague Kosor, I am not so suspicious in that part since provisions have been introduced that this interest can be extended to certain areas of maritime goods for a simple reason because the special law on maritime good and concessioning provisions is so strong that this law cannot replace them. So I'm pretty sure that's not the part where you need to be so scared. But there is always a fundamental question, that as much as we are legislatively trying to do something about the implementation of the competent ministries, they are not effective enough. Because after a year, it's impossible that HEP didn't go into individual investments. That's impossible. It is impossible that the government did not resolve relations with INA, with another MOL investor and did not start investments. What I know in Rijeka was a constant excuse for MOL was no investment for a reason because you're making it difficult for us to simply issue permits. Let's be honest there and it's a maritime good used for individual investments. With these laws passed, everything was settled, and we still don't have investments. And that just means that the government as a second partner in the INA should have made a very different position towards MOL and asked for the right answers why there is no investment. When we talk about the railway line Zagreb – Rijeka, the railway, whatever we want to call it. I can't understand that all this isn't already solved and that machines aren't already on the ground. That's the problem. The law exists, but apparently that law was passed why? To send messages, but not to make those responsible in the management of state property more effective. Obviously, that's not what we've done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95672	Thank you very much. New replica of respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95673	Dear fellow Linic, at the very end of your presentation, you said this law would not provide investment. That's right. No law can secure investment. The law is not the answer to the problem. He's a means, he determines the rules of the game, and the game is run by the government. The government has done nothing so far or has done very little to open an investment cycle in Croatia. What is the cancer of the early Croatian economy is that since the beginning of the kukuri government is the inactivity of the government right in investment. HEP has been announced to invest, that Croatian railways will launch an investment cycle. This would also employ a good part of the private sector. I, in a previous debate on RIZ, built a lapus where I told the judiciary instead. You've been talking about the judiciary now, and of course we here need to pass such laws that there can be no process between the two companies, the state, between the stakeholders for 20 years. We have to pass such laws to make justice possible, because 20 years of litigation is an injustice. Because in 20 years we lose jobs, businessmen lose money. So society lost. In that when I spoke in RIZ, I meant not to meddle politics, but to bring such laws, and our House is the one who is, who should pass laws, which will enable order and that will help the economy not to cramp because we have bad laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95674	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95675	The paper in this law is that such shortened procedures and part of state property will be placed in the role of an investor if the area of investment is rounded up, etc. But let's be honest. We also have a Croatian Property Management Strategy. And what have we seen so far? We didn't sell anything, we didn't rent anything. What about privatizing companies? I have to say I'm ashamed, but the only thing we've been through is three, four hotels in the southern Adriatic that have been through the pre-fashion settlement process. Why? Because they've already owed three times as much as the capital of these companies. So we didn't get through it either. Because I'm saying it's obvious that something should be done. This morning we talked about RIZ, about very simply these Croatian potentials that we could start, some larger activity, some investment. Maybe attract some capital if we could manage it. But what happens is that those who are responsible for this management of DUDI, CERRP, don't say who they are are being led by the vice presidents of the government. The head of each body is the vice president of the government. So, everything's been taken to make the responsibility of managing the property bigger. But when the vice presidents themselves doubt themselves you'll let them say that next year we're going to cut 40,000 jobs. So they don't mean to change their way of acting, their way of efficiency that simply everything that the property is put into the function of fighting for a new job. That's the problem we unfortunately see, and that's why we say it's good to change the laws and improve but efficiency is what's most important.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95676	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95677	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Linic stuck to my ear what you said about the fact that it is not necessary to make an obligation to give an opinion of the contract to the State's Attorney's office. I agree with that. In fact, we were so afraid of making decisions in this country, some kind of fama ruled that nothing could be made no more without the State's Attorney's office asking that it block the system. We bring great laws here, these catalogs that are prepared are excellent, excellent. A foreigner or some domestic investor who comes to look at these catalogues and gets interested can only be impressed with it, but when that stage of implementation comes, we fall to the exam 100%. Why? Because the deadlines are not respected, he's tampering with communication, he's giving the state's attorney's office an opinion that is not at all an obligation under the law of the state's attorney's office. Therefore, only those legal transactions where real estate is estranged or real estate is supplied by the State Attorney's Office. When it comes to agreements with private investors, you're practically hitting on the state's attorney's office for new jobs. So, the absolute head of the body, whether it's a state body, whether it's a local body, must have a responsibility and must have a service that monitors knowledge and provides knowledge and expertise in the conclusion of the contract, and not every little question the State's Attorney's Office for Opinion. I fully agree with this unnecessary opinion is to put into this law a further opinion, to seek the opinion of the State's Attorney's Office, so the State's Attorney's Office will say so that we are not at all giving or respecting the deadline laid down in its Law on State's Attorney's Office which is 30 days, and so you will get up to 30+60+90 and you will arrive by the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95678	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95679	Anyone who worked at the ministry once slowly becomes aware of the problem of making decisions. Anyone who thinks every article of the law regulates everything is wrong. So to decide is to assess the situation and make a decision. With situations like this where we're trying to advance, we're already saying that we're gonna have bad contracts, bad disputes, bad entrepreneurs, bad investors, suspicious investors, so who's gonna make the decision? And the biggest problem is that the decision is increasingly being transferred to the ministry's leaders, meaning the minister, the deputy minister. Everyone else is running away from decisions, everyone else is happy to try to cover it, so when there's anything suspicious in there, there's no decision. Therefore, we must understand that the assessment of the Croatian administration is insufficiently effective. So let's not allow any more of these provisions to strengthen this administration's right to protect itself. I didn't do anything, I asked for an opinion, I didn't get it. The opinion is questionable, vague, etc. You must understand that making a decision is very, very difficult. And if we allow the administration to protect itself with such instruments now, we will not have those decisions. And again we'll have decisions that will have to be made by the first people of the ministry, the moment they make it, then we won't talk about some weird portals, some weird media that try to always criminalize such decisions, always looking at them from that criminal aspect. We need to understand what we need, an effective administration, quick decisions, a minister who will only have expert opinions, very simply make a decision and a battle for the workplace. If we don't lift efficiency, if we don't unload people, it'll be very difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95680	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95681	Thank you very much, Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Investments and investment activities are one of the most common topics when it comes to today's situation in Croatia. But it is undeniable that there are no jobs without investment activity, as counterpart Linic said. But we can't solve problems if we don't know the causes. And that's a fundamental, essential problem why we don't have investment activities. Because we don't know the causes, and if we don't know the causes, then we don't. Is it because of the lack of law or the lack of agency? I'm sure he didn't. We've got law and agency on the line, and surplus. That is why we would have the largest investment activity in Europe if we were by the number of laws and agencies. Obviously, there's a problem somewhere else. And where is he? We'll get to it if we look at the economy as a whole, and no one's looking at it, avoiding it either on purpose or out of ignorance, I don't know, but it doesn't matter. So why isn't there any investment activity? Well, because we have the worst economic situation in the country. We have six years of depression, so will it invest more in conditions of depression or conditions of growth and takeoff? Well, of course, in depression, everyone is afraid to spend and invest. We have the most devastating situation for investment activity, which is a deflation that no one is talking about, because someone will talk about who is in charge when the Croatian National Bank sleeps, it has been hypnotizing for 12, 15 years. And she's not interested in deflation in Croatia. And the first democratic Prime Minister in the countries of Europe in Poland when asked how it was possible that Poland had not gone into crisis, what did it do first? Well, the first thing we did was target inflation, we did up to 2.5%. Who is doing this in Croatia, who is thinking of going from deflation to targeted inflation up to 2.5%? So it wasn't just the first prime minister or the second... A hundred years ago, but that's not what you're thinking. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is necessary to have targeted inflation, someone says from 1.5 to 3 but 2.5% is ideal inflation in such conditions of depression. We have this sign of a deflation phenomenon that will invest expensively to sell cheaper tomorrow to show in the most plastic way, no one reasonable. We have the highest funding costs in Europe. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, half the funding costs are lower than in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Serbia, and not to speak Italy, Austria, Germany where funding costs are up to 1.5% in Croatia from 7% to 10%. How can you invest in such conditions, impossible. Then what seems to be all the instruments of economic policy to come up with lower financing costs, with lower interest rates. But with the hibernation, it can't be done at all. What we've got, we've got high tax rates. Tax rates are high. Instead of shrinking, we increase them. We have tens of thousands of unsold properties, units, and we've introduced VAT into building land of 25%. It's what's in the blockade, which can't be sold because of high prices, and there's no other activity precisely because of these unsold ones, because it's too much offer, we're still burdening it with an extra price instead of 10% of VAT, or 5%, we're concrete at 25% then, arming the construction sector. Is that how you get out of a crisis? Is that how you encourage investment activity and construction activity, by no means? But it hasn't been considered since 1.1. we need to introduce VAT on building land by 25% automation, so we'll remember in six months or in a year that we made a mistake, it turns out in the meantime that it's not, and then we'll cut something down. You don't experiment with tax rates, they have to be stable. We have legal uncertainty of protection and property, property, and claims are one of the most valuable types of assets. The requests in Croatia are not protected, they are still in action with all the extremely correct, professional and fair but still in Croatia is a very great prospect that someone will cheat you, take advances and do no work, that when you perform his work that he will not pay, that when you have agreed to pay 60 days to sue him, when you have agreed to give the exchange he will not give after the contract and start work as long as it is possible to happen people are afraid. State-owned companies are a major obstacle instead of encouraging investment, they are an obstacle to investment. How much trouble does it take to build a substation for an investment project? Well, nobody knows who didn't. So it gets dark in front of his eyes when he has to talk about building. He gets a building permit, pays the utility fee, pays the contributions, and then the local unit says we don't have any money, the utility to bring in the plumbing, you go ahead and finance that. Well, that's what we've been saying here for eight years and no one's gonna take it out. What does a communal contribution mean if there is no investment? So let's free up that communal contribution and encourage investment, and then they'll be able to charge for it. You can make a community contribution 40%, 50%, but if there's no activity you need it. With smaller taxes, with less burdens, it's more income than with big ones, we're not going to do anything big. In relation to investment activity, you should know what is in the correlation are not certainly air conditioning like some argue, but are certainly an aggregate demand that is getting lower, available income that is getting smaller and financing costs that are increasing. Until we remove these variables that are in direct correlation with industrial activity and investment activity, we cannot expect better results. Credit activity is very important. Imagine the surplus liquid assets in the banking system is on average 7.8 billion kuna, and credit activity is becoming less and less. Something's wrong with that, but no one's responding. How is it possible, with such a small bank activity, to achieve such high profit rates? It is possible with 11.5% minus interest on liquid, ministers do so according to current accounts of 55 billion kuna, then they are not interested in investing in the economy when they have the safest and best charge of 11.5% And how much damage it does to society and to the entire state and to the government and Parliament and to all, it does not interest anyone. We can't shut down and be blind to such phenomena. If the person in charge is already blind, then we must either replace him or open his eyes, and no one else is working. On 25 February 2013, a large investment cycle and bloom was announced in Split. It's on its way to the so-called so-called. ... show, 4 large, 5 cities, Split, Osijek, Varazdin, Rijeka, Zagreb. Growth was announced in 2013 of 3% and was based on an increase in fixed capital investments, mainly state-owned companies of 11.5%. If we ignore why the private sector invested, it didn't, here's what I explained, and why didn't the state invest? So the one who vouched failed. Well, something's wrong. I quote the Deputy Prime Minister on February 25th, "The government is doing everything to push investment because they bring jobs, jobs and wages and we move one obstacle from the road. This is the way of a deep ore. "The land that is deeply insinuated is working on it." If it were a deeply isolated country, everything in Croatia would be green, and with such conduct as the vice president announced, neither does the bitterness, let alone something else. As a year passed, a law that apparently did not bear any fruit changes. We have heard here an explanation that, with all the effort, the intellectual effort failed to understand why the law is changing, I just heard what is changing, and why it is changing, it is not even explained, I have carefully read everything. There's no explanation, he's just saying, instead it's that. And why is that? It's lagging out. If we don't know why we're changing how we can know what we're going to expect from what we're changing. It says certain shortcomings have been identified and amendments are therefore proposed. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What shortages? Are those really faults? How will they be removed? It's not there, there's no explanation for it. However, most of the projects reported did not have a closed financial structure. We're changing the law because investors don't have a closed financial structure. I don't know if any economist who finished his first year of studies can understand that the law is being changed because the investor doesn't have a closed financial structure. So how will it work if it doesn't have a closed financial structure? What do we have to legally allow him not to be locked up, let him do, and we'll see what happens? And when the competition for public procurement in Croatia is one of the potential suppliers, then it has to bring a bank guarantee to participate in public procurement, and here it says there are problems, I can't close the construction, so we'll change the law. So what do we get with it? Well, the prerequisite is that it's a closed financial structure. If there's no closed financial structure, we'd better not start anything. The damage will all have, and most countries, and the damage will also have an investor because without a closed financial structure, neither will enter the business. What we heard about the opinion of the DORH, it's actually a mockery of the rule of law, a lack of resolution of the responsibilities of individual functions, of individual institutions. No matter who's normal has anything to fear, anyone if he's doing his job fair and square? For every little thing or for every procedure, ask for the opinion of the DORH. Well, a foreign investor can't be surprised that it has to be done, it's so unacceptable. A new institute for potential strategic projects is being introduced, but why is this being introduced? There is not a word of explanation, we have inserted it without explanation, but this allows construction on the marine good. I don't know what can come out of it, but nothing good, I'm afraid. The Agency for Investments and Competitiveness and the Energy Sectors and Investment Monitoring Centre are divided, but yet it does not say why, in one case, it is one thing, why in the other? Why is that now shared? Are they capacitated or re-conducted? Without analysis, it can't be experimented like this. When you spoke of Article 3 where points 2 to 6 are changed, they do not change but only changes the order by 3 points. The current point 4 was point 6, the current point 5 was paragraph 4, and what is most important changed is paragraph 3 where it was previously reported that the evidence of the investor's financing and ability is obliged to adopt when something is declared by a strategic project, i.e.... the sources of funding, are now being replaced by the bonuses, with the support structure, with the audit opinions, instead of being so simple that someone proved their financial ability to finance and nothing else. Therefore, the HDZ Club cannot support experimenting in the failed actions of this government because this change of law will only make it more complicated, not contribute to the activities...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95682	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Despite the inspired speech, we have five replicas. The first replica, the esteemed Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95683	Well, I think it's precisely because of the inspired speech that has five replicas. Replica is not resisting attitudes. You told Mr. Maric you said the same thing as Vesna Škara Ozbolt about the DORH opinions, and this law and many other laws want to put the DORH in a position to be the most important link in the investment chain. Why not the police and secret agents? Everything needs to be put on, actually what you said at the beginning, the analysis is missing what's wrong and how to solve what's wrong, let's get rid of the obstacles. However, we do not remove old obstacles and bring new obstacles. You are right and you often mention the role of the CNB. The CNB says it doesn't run a proactive policy, it doesn't lead a targeted policy, it doesn't say it's going to and whether it needs targeted inflation, whether it's going to be 1.5%. However, we know from previous periods that the CNB policy was not led by the CNB governor but by Ivica Todorovic. Whoever's running the CNB policy today doesn't know, I guess they'll find out which one of the tycoons, what the CNB is doing, what it's supposed to do, and what it's not doing, and the law says. Therefore, what Mr. Linic said before, this law will not bring about investments, he can make some obstacle. The problem is in the government, the problem is in people who need to realize what has been promised for three years, and this is another promise that will actually be an empty promise.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95684	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Reply to the replica, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95685	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, you have rightly noticed, this is not only necessary for PNUSKOK, the DORH to ask all those who can speak tomorrow. Let us then inform the opinion of non-governmental associations of various civil associations, so ask everyone for an opinion. Tomorrow they can file an anonymous report against you, if that's what we're gonna do. Let's go to the CRIME police and let them also give their opinion, and then we'll hire a certain inspector to give his opinion and we'll pay him specifically, so we can legally install him, or maybe we can invent another agency to control the legality of the law. When you talk about the CNB, and of course it is undeniable that deflation is in Croatia, it is undeniable that it is the worst economic phenomenon that is the most destructive of actions and effects, it is not responding to it. When you're looking at who's running the CNB policy, you don't know, but this is how the public gets the impression if someone's able to squeeze a tie in the governor's coffee shop, then I think they're dominated by it, so maybe it has an impact when the photo shows how tightly the governor's breathing is because at the Christmas party, his tie was tightened. And the governor who says on the anniversary celebrates the domestic national currency to hope it's the last anniversary then it should be the last year of the governor of the Republic of Croatia. And it went like he didn't even say it. And he said the other day, that the state would go bankrupt if the SDP remained in power for a year, and if HDZ came to power in two years and that's how the governor talks. But we cannot build society like that, start investment and worry about the improvement of the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95686	Thank you too, dear colleague. I have nothing to add to that. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95687	Thank you very much. You have made a lot of findings in your presentation, and it is good that there are at least five replicas because this silence is actually showing this silence that people are thinking and agreeing with you. Namely, the property tax this Croatian Parliament voted on, besides having 10,000 unsold apartments in Zagreb alone 10,000 apartments and land buildings etc. It will lead to an even more catastrophic situation in real estate and construction. Who won't allow the prices of apartments to be reduced? Are these investors or banks that are funded by investors? They do not allow the reduction of the order they also have as depositors. You were talking about trafostations, and here I remember that, and here in my county there's a school that I don't name now, maybe you don't know the church where eight years newly built school by means of the Ministry of Education stands because there's a problem that's not quite solved exactly what you're saying, so the installation of a trafo station. Who's going to give up whether the local community, the county, the town of Brod and the outcome of the long-term licenses for that substation, HEP. Well, I'm not gonna say it to a crazy house, but it really is. And here's the school and today the new money stands because it's going down because nobody moved in but here it is. And as for attracting investment, I don't know, I saw that it says www mingo here, it's a new term, and before it was a mingore... Ministry of Economy. Maybe if you changed the bingo name you'd rather have an investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95688	Reply to the replica, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95689	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, I don't think I've politicized one word when I spoke about this law and that whoever was listening could have heard the economic reasons for and against and what are the economic reasons why there is no investment activity and what should be done. And they always say so tell me what you should do. Here's the thing, it's been repeated so many times that it shouldn't be just criticism. But why should we always get hit on the head and be aware that we've made a mistake? So if you remember I was here eight years ago saying don't change that law because it's going to be harmful and I'm going to have to explain it again why you're changing it again. And I was against such proposals that, in advance, I know they won't get any positive effects. When you talk about real estate tax. Well, of course, I don't know who cares about not selling it, I really don't. But there is an even deeper problem if we introduce a new tax. We had to introduce a tax on construction land but not 25%, but then we could also cut the sales tax to 2%. So why don't you cut the real estate tax to 2% and introduce a sales tax on other assets of 3% to compensate. And imagine, you sell in one day a company worth a billion kuna and that's tax-free and you transfer a flat or a plot of 100,000 kuna you'll pay 5% of the tax. That's not how he takes care of the country, that's not how problems are solved. Change of owner when you're talking about a trafo station, I'm just going to take an example. If they don't believe someone from the government calls me and I'll give him written evidence. For the change of owner counted for 8 months and 6 times had to be gone, written and prayed for change. In one count of eight months. I'll give them written proof if they don't believe it. If things like that don't work out when someone comes out and looks at it. Imagine having a friend to do something like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95690	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Third replica, Honored Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95691	Your Honor, Mr. President. Every time in the future, but the future are obviously strategic investments beginning to look into the past. Well, as my colleague Maric said very nicely, so he did, 8 years ago, indeed, it is true, that the replica is, asking me if Maric is a replica, 8 years ago he really clearly defended monetary policy, i.e. he blamed the monetary policy of the time as it is now. But fellow Maric, since he teaches at economic colleges, he knows very well what foreign foreign investment is and he knows very well what is going on in the last two, two and a half decades in foreign investment, in Europe and in Croatia. I answered because I am both a minister and a doctor very well aware of the famous Grosman sentences Health is a economy. There is no better, stronger system that is an economy than a health system. And what happened to fellow Maric in the countries of the European Union and in the countries of South America and Asia? There were four things going on, deregulatory, depoliticization, privatization, elimination of customs. What happened in Croatia these years? Quite the opposite. By the way, by Racan's government, there was no law to encourage investment, you know that. There is no Deputy Prime Minister of the then-Mr. Linic here, he inaugurated the Law on the Encouragement of Investments, which was changed in 2006. Foreign direct investment is crucial. You know very well that they can be vertical, horizontal, that they can be greenfield investments, that they can be brownfield investments and that, according to the motive, they can be as market-oriented, resource-oriented, resource-oriented to increase efficiency. The fourth is key strategic investment. This law is a great law, complemented by experience, and this is the first law to highlight it, the first law after 20 years of our country, after 20 years of delay that finally has the word strategic investment in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95692	Thank you very much for the reply to the replica, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95693	I'm glad you had the courage to say what you said and to judge this law with great courage. Great law without any results. Great law, already two years ago,... For a year in service and so much of the problem that there is not a single investment under that law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now you say, with a promise of honor, it will be when this changes, because this is a great change. He thinks that for these findings, he really needs courage. When you talk about deregulation and privatisation, it is not disputed that you have read some books, magazines, that's what you can see, but you haven't, you seem to be dealing with the experience of countries that didn't go into crisis and that have gone in and changed politics and come out of the crisis. I see that you like to deal with Russia's economics and when it comes out of crisis and how it came out of crisis and why Poland didn't go into crisis and why China didn't go into crisis. Poland didn't privatize, liberalize and deregulate everything, it didn't. She was doing exactly the opposite. She wouldn't let the balloon pump and wouldn't let the currency clause. That's why she didn't get into a crisis, Mr. Ostović. She did not allow deregulation, but on the contrary banned the currency clause. Targeted inflation made up to 2.5%. And Russia when it started, then a great prime minister came and said enough, no one else will lead us outside, we'll lead her. After that, 8% of the growth, after they had a 10% drop. They've changed economic policy. Of course, there is a very important Central Bank in this role but it has no role in Croatia except to record the event. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95694	Thank you very much. Dear Maric, many things are laziciated, so we need to understand that. colleague of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95695	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Marić, I agree with you in your findings about state-owned companies which are as you said the obstacle to one part of the investment, I believe you will agree that this is not from today. But also on the finding of laws and agencies, we do have them for export, but, as we can see, there are unfortunately no results. And I am sure that many of us would love it and that this law produced the expected effect and that in a year it produced effects safely to praise it. What you also mentioned, which seems to me to be perhaps the most controversial provision in this draft amending the law, is to facilitate investors who do not have a closed financial structure. The question is, then, how to reach the desired goal, and this is a fully realised investment because only such investment can, of course, lead to job creation, or it can lead to a step forward. And on the other hand, it seems to me that relief to those who, at the beginning of the journey, do not have a closed financial structure can open the door to malversion. So these are the problems that need to be spoken of in public. And as for the DORH and the excessive involvement of the DORH, which you have spoken about, but also many others, the fact that excessively always involving the DORH means on the other hand and excessively removing responsibility. That's one of the problems. The fact is that many people today who do their job with honor and integrity are afraid to sign and fear making decisions. That's a fact. However, if the decision is based on laws and is based on the Constitution, then there should be no fear and people whose duty and obligation is to make decisions and ultimately sign decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95696	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95697	Thank you very much. My colleague Kosor, you have noticed well with this, so I purposely pointed out that it is unnatural that the law is adjusted and discriminated against others, and there is no closed financial structure because this law discriminates against smaller investors. And now imagine, one who doesn't have a closed financial structure, but is a strategic investor under this law, and someone who has an investment of 100 million kuna and has a closed financial structure, but is not a strategic investor under this law, then does not apply to it, to this. Let someone from the ministry prove to me that in any European Union country there is a law that guarantees such privileges to an investor for whom he has not secured a financial structure, I will raise my hand for the law. But there's nowhere to go and no one dares to do such a thing but you, that someone who doesn't have the money to bring in investments that our contractors and subcontractors do, do the job and then stay unpaid. That's what's going to happen and it's meant to happen. Because the easiest strategic investor is under that excuse to hire everyone, to raise an operation on your feet, to make all the happy and big jobs, but when the charge comes, we're a little in trouble, we can't pay you because we didn't have a closed financial structure at first, but the job got. Who's gonna stay in trouble? Domestic performers, poor co-operatives as always, as always, always short-sleeved. And when you were talking about state-owned companies, I don't want to generalise or ever generalize, but there are these outbursts in state-owned companies and local self-government companies that need to be eliminated. I've never drawn and drawn a line between the government and the government. Economic policy, economic policy of the state, but it seems to me no matter whose government it was that it was not changing, and until it changes Croatia it will not be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95698	Thank you too, dear colleague. And the fifth, last replica of your presentation, the esteemed representative Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95699	Your Honor, Mr. President. Comrade Maric, I agree with everything you said, except that you shouldn't write it like that to the DORH or that you don't need the role of DORH, you know what you said and the other participants are kind of breaking up about it. I think this is necessary at this stage, I think it is necessary for the DORH to have a role to play in protecting people because unfortunately the overall relationship in a society based on Phariseeism, hypocrisy, lies, demagogy has led to the fact that managers have become persecuted beasts. You're a thief in advance if you start doing anything. He wouldn't have worked if he didn't have any use for it, it's basically one duck. The media has crucified you in advance. You've been declared a thief in advance. As soon as it's seen that something's done, there's a thief, it's a thief. And according to an anonymous police report, the police are coming, the DORH is coming. In particular, in Split, I worked maternity, investor government, I have no right to sign a lip, only in the heat I won that the government makes a decision to build a birthplace. I've been reported by Kerum Hopkok, the jump comes to arrest me, what, die, how. What I've been through in that process, I won't even tell you. So unfortunately we've led things to absurdity, the state and management are blocked. How are we going to unblock it at this point? As part of this replica, I can't say everything I'm supposed to say, but it's blocked, people are threatened, they're really threatened. So who's going to go to Remetinec now to the DORH, while they've been testing you for a year and what I know there, and neither guilty nor debtor, each one has a family.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95700	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95701	Comrade Marasović, I absolutely understand why you are saying this, and I might agree that the law and investment activity should not be observed in the long term. What you're saying justifies it because it's such a situation that it turns out it really does. Well, every day anonymouss suffer the secret services of the president of the state, the Prime Minister, there's no telling what kind of pressures. But the opinion of the DORH on each individual situation will bury the DORH and will not work. They do anyway, they're full of work, and in their role and function, they're not meant to have this job, and the opinions they give are ambiguous. This did not guarantee that you would not, even if you acted according to how you interpreted the opinion of the DORH that you would not one day and answer. When you're looking for, which is even more dangerous, you're looking for the Ministry of Finance's opinion as to whether or not they'll be treated in a tax way, they won't give you an opinion, but if they do, then they say they don't have a commitment. I had such a case in my practice where I ran a state-owned company, where I begged 50 times to write if it was any production or not. When they said there was finally an inspection and said our opinion wasn't worth it. Well, we can't work like that! My colleague Linic remembers that case. That's not how it works. We can't. And when you were talking about management crisis and management that's a different management structure, then there wouldn't be so much need to ask for an opinion. But when you put inexperiences who don't have enough knowledge or experience, they're in fear of everything. A man who knows and is honest and who can read the laws of what he has to fear and cannot prevent anonymous applications. But what is most neglected in Croatia is macroeconomic management. There is no college, nor does anyone talk about it, nor does anyone know what macroeconomic management is, and it is most endangered in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95702	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We will continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Independent Representatives Grubišić – Cain and the Honored Representative Damir Kajin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95703	Honorable President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yes, when we look at the economic trends that everyone has talked about almost to one or almost all of them are negative. And the last chance I see it, I don't have to be right about this income bill that could possibly increase consumption. And secondly, the VAT Act for small businesses that should pay taxes at the charge rather than at the invoiced price. Income, however, workers will likely be taken through new taxes, and eventually we may have greater damage than the benefit that could have been rightly considered. Secondly, we're all asking ourselves what strategic investment is here. We can talk about this normally what the law knows, investments over 10 million euros etc. There are certainly interesting elements in this law, but even more interestingly, there are no relevant investments in Croatia. Or better yet, we are not able to stimulate these investments, nor attract relevant capital, nor are we able to create a climate for investment. It has been three years of this power, and we can conclude that Lithuania, or Greece, is worse than we are. The average available household income in us is far above the European average and it fell from 972 euros to 850 euros in 2012 and in 28 European countries, clearly that we cannot compare with Austria, Italy, I do not know Germany, the average income of the household but I speak in all countries together is 2161 euros. In one word, when we talk about this barometer of Croatian social society, it means the quality of life from before 2006 or 2007. We now hope Europe will pull us back. I spoke yesterday, not gentlemen. So far, we've paid $5.4 billion. I'm just reading the headlines in a newspaper today, and we're pulling 3.7 billion kuna. One word down, we're 1.7 billion kuna. I can't even believe it. And now we all hope to save this Junker fund, where the Republic of Croatia has replicated 68 projects worth a total of 19.2 billion euros. One Germany, the great Germany, is how many 50 times bigger than us the circus has applied for 89 billion euros, Italy for 82 billion euros. And right now, they're being published amongst other things and the data that these projects are about. So there is, and let's say, something to start monitoring the Križiste highway – Žuta Lokva, Beli Manastir highway – Osijek, road link of southern Dalmatia I don't know probably Pelješki bridge, state road around Rijeka, bridge Gradiška etc. etc. And what I can't believe here is the Deputy Minister of Istria. I'm asking myself a question, so where's Istria? Well, apart from Plomina, we're just like a single reservation, we're nowhere to be found here. We can possibly join some regional local sewerage projects where a sum of €3 billion sum is given or some venture capital funds to invest in small, medium-sized enterprises. We can't get through to the e-school program and clearly that's where this unfortunate Plomin C thermal power plant is. No port of Bršica, no port of Pula, no railway in Istria from Buzet down to Pula or Lupoglav – Stallija, no tunnel Učka, railway clear connection to Slovenia etc. Yesterday we had a meeting of Croatian businessmen and they also, among other things, under quotes as much as they can demand ultimately, is the second story they say in reforms as if the first year of the term of office was clear. If that's gonna happen, it's not gonna happen. However, such a situation as it is with the great businessmen is nothing compared to these small investors. And I claim that they are the priors in the worst position at the moment in the Republic of Croatia. Maybe they're in a worse position than the workers who work with them. I also agree that there are no small ones if we don't have large business entities, but where's the problem? Our country is expensive, from the crisis here in the upgrade, so since 2007, another 22,000 people have been employed. Of that number 7,000 in local self-government, this second one in utility companies, state, schools, is not a problem now, hospitals etc. In the County of Istria, for example. The average salary is 8100 kuna, in the real sector 5500 kuna. I don't have anything, let's make it an average and 10,000 kuna, but there's a smaller number of employees there because I'm sure everyone else has nothing to do. What's interesting here, among other things, on page 3? Here you've all mentioned this problem more or less or less the apostrophe of the DORH. Yeah, and there's really a question of whether to include DORH with all this in this law? Or should the DORH control, monitor, and not participate in everything, so I don't say that I amnestize someone in advance? The opinion of the DORH is one of the unnecessarily, for others it is simply necessary. I don't think it's theirs, as my predecessors said, and Mr. Maric and Linic, that it's not theirs to interfere in every business process. Let them monitor, not let everything under quotes pre-amnesty. Although I agree with the problem Mr. Marasovic spoke about but also with Mr. Maric, who said I received a positive opinion and finally had to say the processes that led almost to the procession. Me on the other hand, for example. I know about the EVA case when no matter what was in force, let's say the Law on the ban on the sale of agricultural land in the DORH gave consent to those transactions. The law was in force for a year on the ban on the sale of agricultural land, they give consent for a year or two afterwards to individuals who bought hectares and hectares for kuna, for example. on those hectares that they paid 100 or 120 thousand kuna and signed mortgages of 350 thousand euros. So what now? Yes, I agree with those who say or say that the DORH also needs the DORH. No one here thinks that there are only saints in the DORH, no one thinks they are in Croatian courts or that there are judges and that everyone is as blessed as no one thinks or claims that in politics everyone is innocent. But nicely enough, let me be based on the new Income Act to start an examination of the assets of each of those who are in politics, who are in the DORH, who are in the police, who are in the judiciary, who are notes in the economy. Either we sign off on the basis of our 20-year-old, or I don't know how many amnesias a total amnesty is, and let's say from tomorrow, honestly, who's been bailing out, and whoever we catch the day after that, we're just gonna "snap" under the quotes for the head. But I would never agree with that principle. I just don't stand for it, I'm up for the other thing, let justice be done, and let the world fall apart under quotes, but to all of them the same. I also agree with that remark that Mrs. Ozbolt mentioned here in Article 2 if I am not mistaken, meaning a potential strategic project within the meaning of this law is a project that can be realised on properties over which the Republic of Croatia has a majority co-owned share, etc., according to the state of the land books, that we have a problem under quotes "indimension" or entered into land books and catastrases and that this leads literally to one disaster. The fundamental question is the same fee as how to determine the same? Okay, the court experts will say. Price, natural restitution of damages. Of course, investment can't wait, but when it's in my real estate, it's for example. A country with one-quarter, one-fifth, one-third, I can, under quotes, "separate" the state by the same criteria that the state will "separate" under quotes or take the land of me? There's always the state of the one who's pushing and who's clearly clutching. Between the interests of the state, pardon, investor and my right to own this other I think there must be sanctity, clearly to a certain extent but for both the state and this small owner. I'd like to, for example. He also liked to know, for example. has any strategic investment, for example, been realised in Istria, in the last 3, 4 years that I know it's not. Come on, Luksic took over now a few months ago, but I'm sure he took over, nothing will build or work there. Končar entered Barbariga, Dragoner, Katarina, Monuments again nothing was realized there. And who's controlling it? If only these projects under quotes of "strategic state interest" were realised. Responsibilities are transferred to each other, nothing is done, no one is employed, nothing is created. Who's holding that? Among other things, I say this racket. Two hundred thousand kunas were paid by a Jupiter fund, a list asking for 500 thousand euros from Maria Captain who wanted to sell the country to Israel's brother, Shimon Peres, 600 thousand euros, etc. This law, especially in this election year, will not bring light to this end of the tunnel, but as I know, in this dead year for investment to paraphrase Mr. Linic he told that term to the dead year for investment perhaps this law is good and it is time to adopt it. But in this kind of Croatia, it is not worth investing in. Yesterday I was in Lesnina, never mind, empty. Every center is empty. People don't have money. Only when the standard rises, foreign investors will come here and start doing something. And that's just the point. Who's going to invest when everything's under the quotes of a coat? How many hotels have been invested in 24.25 years in Istria? Maybe three, four new ones. Somewhere else in Croatia either way or worse. To the factories? Which factories? In one Rockwool, in Plomin B if I'm not mistaken in '96, '97. 300 million euros and that's about it. The most serious investors were in the money laundering of HYPO Bank, Zagorec against which certain processes are now going, but also some teams from Istria. I don't just see a lot of good when it comes to this year. We all rely on that state spending, or investment, but we see that HEP has not invested anything, highways nothing, roads anything, water supplies are also doing every honour as far as it is concerned, the EU is financing our money, not theirs. I said we gave 5.7 a withdrawal of 3.7 billion kuna. Local self-government plus community service nothing. We have in Istria for festivals 30, 40, someone says 50 million kuna, the festivals are out in a year, and in a place in the retirement home there are three, four, five, or I don't know how many years. Foreign investments are gone, small businessmen are on their knees, large takeover as a rule existing systems I don't know Istria tourist, Agrokor has taken over Mercator's every honour, Croatia's insurance has taken over TDR or Adris anyway, it's good to at least save something. But it should also be recognised that the crisis is also in some of our neighbouring countries, in one Italy, Slovenia. Austria, Germany is out of it, but we are small, we are simply uninteresting to them. On the other hand, we're not going to do anything, the state, the local self-government at this point are scared, the structure is complicated, fragmented, politicised, and I think that the economic activity in the year before us will be smaller than bigger, and without it there will certainly be no growth. But maybe let's go to this dead investment year, election year maybe it's good to have changes to this bill so let's see when we're going to next time or who's going to participate again in the changes to the existing one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95704	Thank you very much. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95705	Dear Madam Vice President, my dear colleague Cain, I simply couldn't resist contacting you on this matter of yours regarding the state's attorney's office. You pulled some parallels about what we talked about here earlier that it might be unnecessary to regulate the role of the state's attorney's office in this law. I agree with that. However, you can't say that the state's attorney's office should oversee these projects because if the State's Attorney's office starts to monitor something then it goes in one completely different direction. I believe that you have misrepresented yourself when it comes to this case, but the state's attorney's office according to these investments, but when it comes to what is in the jurisdiction of the State's Attorney's Office, it can give opinions on the acquisition or availability of real estate to the Republic of Croatia, owned by the Republic of Croatia. On private investment, I don't think the state's attorney's office should be giving any opinion and I think it would be completely wrong to intervene and ask the state's attorney to give any opinion when it comes to private investment. The responsibility of the state authorities, the responsibility of the local administration must be such that they can have the courage to sign the contracts themselves without prior request of the State Attorney's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95706	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95707	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Cain, you were talking about agricultural land, and surely the agricultural land is immensely important in the strategic branch as agriculture is mentioned, there is no speech. And we know that agricultural land is under that old law that when there's a lot of things on local self-government there's been a lot of these remarks, that significant areas are put into operation. Meanwhile, we know that the agriculture minister's regulation on the ban on agricultural land has come. Of course it slowed the whole process and now this new Agricultural Land Act has been passed. But what happened? More than modest effects, that's the problem. And even more dangerously, what's now being confirmed in the Lipovljani municipality, I think we've had the freshest example now, the freshest example of no OPG has been given in that part of the possibility, any OPG. So it's confirmed that our thesis that they're the greatest, most powerful when they're going to fight to bring these down to... This is not a contribution to the good development of agriculture, this is not a contribution to the strategic branch of agriculture, and I am afraid that this will certainly not be such a bad and bad situation in agriculture to improve and improve. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95708	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95709	Look, this time we're getting along, but even though my intensity was, it was about something else. Agricultural land is a huge resource, a huge potential that needs to be put into operation. The peasant needs to be given everything, I'm clearly talking about giving the farmer land to rent, letting him sell I don't know under the barn or some real estate, but he needs to get the peasant out of the speculator. What happens in some regions where individuals for 1 kuna come into possession of dozens of hectares of state agricultural land. After that land is re-scheduled, detailed plans are urbanized, so what they bought for one to two kunas resale for 100, 200 or 300 euros, speculation is, in this state, not to participate, the DORH should act, let alone that this kind of behaviour is amnesty.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95710	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95711	Dear Madam Vice President. My colleague Cain, something else about the DORH. A colleague Linic said nicely that in every job, especially investment, etc. It is impossible to predict all situations and problems that will arise during this process. Management works in at least 10% of the gray zone and has to make decisions. I respect everyone I respect every one of you who says you need management to have courage. It's no big deal if you end up in jail tomorrow. The state can't work on the courage of someone because courage can be madness. Well, there's no courage here for most of us to say what he thinks and most of us to keep quiet, let alone make a decision to sign something he's going to jail for tomorrow. And the DORH is laughing at us for sending him whether this is legal or not, the state is blocked for some part of it, and we need to find a way to unblock it, but the state isn't blocked just because, rightly stopped crime investments, it's partly stopped, it's a good part of the gray economy, management is stopped because all the thieves, like us politicians, we can defend ourselves, we're all thieves, liars, etc. But it's not for DORH, but when he signs something, he goes to DORH. Private investment from the domestic capital of 130 billion has been stopped, and today, what is the topic, large investments have been stopped by the government's policy. Until the overall government policy changes, these are only small cosmetic changes that I can support, but they were not the reason why... this big project, but the overall government policy that needs to be completely changed in order for major projects to come and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95712	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95713	I went even one step further, so I said the same thing, although every year we get reports from the state's attorney general, that the DORH itself should be controlled in some way. I also said that no one thinks that the people who work in the DORH are all saints to each other, as are not all blessed in courts, as all who are in politics or economy are not innocent. I don't think this law should involve the DORH, to control something, to monitor something, to give opinions, if that's not the only thing that makes them think. However, sometimes these opinions of someone only or some of them amnesty, but I agree the same that we live at a strange time and that few who today have any courage to invest in the Republic, fearing, not only for the return of capital or for the fertilisation of that capital, but even more today, people are afraid for personal freedom, and we really need to change that climate, we need to send people a message, work, pay the workers' wages, pay taxes and my God, and also get rich, why not, but in these circumstances, in this climate of social, pre-election relationship within political life, I'm afraid that anyone will invest in the Republic, let alone someone on the side.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95714	Darko Milinović, replica. Comrade Cain, turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95715	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Unfortunately, in this country, since the investment, there are no strategic investments, there are all witnesses, there are no strategic investments, there are no basic investments that would in any way guarantee or at least stagnation of GDP, and we have a continuing decline of 12 months. What is important for any investment, let alone strategic investment? Legal security and political security are essential. Come on, we can also talk political security one way or another, we have a lot of hands in the Parliament, so it kind of dictates that political stability, but a lot of things are indirectly affecting investments, and that's where legal certainty is most important. Any investor who comes to invest anywhere he counts with a certain profit and therefore invests. No one's investing to lose today, tomorrow. Then today there's one tax, tomorrow there's another tax, then today there's 15% contribution to health care, tomorrow there's 13%, then there's a dividend tax, and then there's a retroactive dividend tax, and every investment is like a deer in the woods, every forest, it goes away. So she goes to Serbia, Montenegro, goes to Serbia, and also when we look at the budget, one of the most innovative budgets, economic growth of 0.5%, and we plan to drop the number of employees. These are all things that affect investment and the spoken word publicly. In a town in Croatia, not to mention his name, the mafia is ruling the judiciary. What normal investor is coming to invest in this town? Or in Istria you speak the mafia, the mafia, you call, so... in peace of your... you see, gather that data, give it to the DORH. You are publicly speaking to the mob, the mob, so who will normally come to invest if we don't have the responsibility for a publicly spoken word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95716	Thanks, buddy. Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95717	When we talk about Istria, all that DORH data has, the other thing is whether it does something or whether it will. It is likely that Istria will not remain spared some of the processes that have showered some other parts of the Republic of Croatia, or perhaps someone has pulled the line for the last 7, 8 days between Istria and Croatia, so perhaps nothing seems to happen. I would even dare say the same today, to fight corruption is not even important, and therefore the future of the Republic of Croatia, for some social change, morals in society are not as important as the president of the state, nor this Parliament, nor the Government, nor these cowardly media as the DORH. However, I dare say that the DORH is becoming the last line of defense in these Croatian areas. When you talk about the economy, we agree more or less, since the first recession year of 2008, we haven't moved, unfortunately we're tapping in place. But I disagree when you talk about political stability. In political stability, something else is far more important than most hands in this House, which is that there are no coups with non-democratic systems or funds in the Republic of Croatia and so much we can say that the legal structure of the Republic of Croatia is stable and that no one will be able to abuse it outside institutionally. Yeah, for inciting the crisis or for this moment where we found ourselves today, so it's not just the state that's responsible or local self-government, and we're responsible, maybe we're even higher than our mentality because we're simply not going to do anything. Yes, individuals today, especially from the domain of public authority, are frightened, the structure is too complex for us. Individuals are simply afraid that some work from some earlier years will come on the charge, even though I think until it's cleaned up... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95718	Thank you very much. On behalf of Croatian laborists, colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95719	Dear colleagues and colleagues. As a result of this proposal, the law also developed a debate as to why Croatia has no investment. Reading the bill, I concluded that the only problem in the procedure that leads to some project being declared a strategic investment project. If that's the case, we'll see by the end of this debate. And I will remind you of the debate of fellow Marić, who is an investment mood that has really nothing to do with air conditioning, depends also on the macroeconomic environment and state in a country. Perhaps the fact that we do not have enough investment also affects the cost of investing in Croatia, what is the price of investment. It may also affect the deflation situation, and interestingly, when he mentioned the national currency's targeted depreciation, no one dared call fellow Maric a demagogue and a populist, and ten times in this House we tried to warn the ruling majority that co-operation with monetary authority and serious change of monetary policy exiting from the economic crisis would be almost impossible to achieve. But there is no discussion, no hints, and there is no such feeling in Croatian media that it can be written and spoken about. I would single out the stability of the tax system, at the end of the day, how long the tax model lasts. And any authority that will understand the importance of the sustainability of the tax system for investors at the beginning of the term of office will determine its tax system and say for 4 years we will not change anything in it. This law does not define any of these categories, an investment environment factor. I would say that I can freely conclude on this example that Croatia is paying a tremendously high price for unprepared entry into the EU. This is also shown in the ability to use EU funds, this is also shown in investment, this is demonstrated by the loss of jobs only in the first year of membership, which is unfortunately measured by 60,000 lost jobs, this is measured by the fall in purchasing power, blocked citizens and entrepreneurs, and this is only the consequence or evidence that we have not entered the EU economically and economically ready. When the draft law was in the government last July for a second reading, the prime minister called the law revolutionary. After a year, the government fixed it, I would say, that the government is fixing the revolution, and that reminds me terribly of that ongoing revolution. Because if something revolutionary was prepared in July 2013, and now we have to fix that revolution, then obviously it either went wrong or went wrong. But what bothers me very much, the 18th August of this year on a journalist's inquiry why this law no longer yields results, the Greek Deputy Prime Minister said that in the government they have seen certain shortcomings in that law and added, I now quote: "You cannot change that if the Parliament does not meet for two months. You can't, there's no way, so we have to wait for the Parliament to function and we'll have everything ready, we actually have it now." So, the 18th August of this year, the vice president of Greece said they have ready to amend the law without being able to change it because the parliament is not in session. See the date on the bill when the government referred the bill to the 26th November procedure. So what were they doing from the 18th to the 26th? He's traveled so long from the government's bill to the Parliament? The parliament was ready to discuss the law in September, we are now in December of the month, so in August, Vice President Greek says the government is bound by hands because the parliament is in session and cannot change the law. I'm sorry there is no Vice President of Greece, but please tell that man to make more serious statements and some of the problems they have caused themselves do not attribute to the Parliament. In a rather difficult way, there is data on the effect of a year of law. In the light of the assessment of the state of this law, nothing. A little something was said here today, and based on the requirements only submitted to the resolution ministry, the three projects that were included in the status under this law are Plomin C, 6.3 billion, the Regional Waste Management Centre Piškornica 760 million and the Container Terminal of Zagreb port 1.6 billion. The list includes projects LNG 3.5 billion and the reconstruction of the Mali Losinj runway, which is 12 billion and 400 million in total... 8 projects are ready to refer to the commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How long they wait for the official response committee to be directed, unfortunately it did not say, how long they were already ready and 19 in the phase of the administrative check. That's a total of 32. So in a year and a few days 32 projects were processed, of which 3 were completed. What do we know about these 8+19s? Nothing. I've been looking further for information on these projects, and I've got an answer. It's all classified. It's secret. I, as a parliamentary representative, must know absolutely nothing about it. But we have to support the amendments to the law because the procedure is guilty because the government wasn't faster. Okay. Secret projects and I have to vote to amend the law, and then these secret projects that we can't get any information on will be implemented. You remember Dina on the island of Krk, you remember the agony of that company and some strategic investor from Turkey,... Something like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 5 million euros in state guarantee, where is... And where is 5 million euros? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Has anyone from the government ever answered that question? How the project ended and whether Croatia is at zero or at -5m euros. Here's a public call for anyone who knows to answer that question. Do we have another problem that investors are welcome in Croatia primarily from the EU area. They are a little harder to pass outside the European Union. Are there any interested investors in Croatia from Iran, for example?? Any investors from Qatar, China, Kazakhstan? There is. And who do we have to ask first or whose blessing do we first have to get when these investors enter Croatia? Whose blessing is needed? European Union? Someone, some gray eminences, some of our strategic partners who are extremely high in diplomatic pressures on Croatia do not allow investors to receive if there are other interests, that is the same truth. And two, three weeks ago, diplomats from a foreign country came to the Parliament for talks when they heard about the possibility of entering serious investors from Iran into Croatia. And they were very interested in what was said at those talks. It's our sad fact. In the existing law, even the acquisition of ownership rights over agricultural land, forests, forest land and public roads and maritime goods was not enough for serious investors, not even the right to acquire property over property defined by the Constitution in a way that alienation cannot be done. Even the right to expropriate private property over the land that the law has in itself was not enough to launch larger investments. And now two new articles are coming and I think only those two reasons are present for changing the law. The first is the Republic of Croatia has most co-owned parts according to land books. Not that the owner's registered, but majority co-ownership. This change is due to the Croatian highways and the possibility of giving in monetization because they have only now realized that Croatian highways are not fully included in the ownership of the Republic of Croatia in land books, some shares in general, and that this provision does not introduce monetization would not be possible under the law. That's the first reason we've changed the law. The second is that within 60 days of the project being declared a strategic investment project by the State, the creditor, evidence of the secured financial assets amounting to at least 10% of the total project value, including the bank guarantee or deposit for a period of 10 months. This is the second reason for changing this law where, apparently under the pressure and blackmail of some investors, Croatia must give way to the fact that the bank guarantee is in debt, currency or deposit only 10% and only for a period of 9 months enough to obtain the status of a strategic investment project. All the other changes that are in the law are simply written to hide these two reasons. There will be more changes to this law because there will now be pressures on the process of changing spatial plans, then there will be pressure on the protection of the environment, that is, to ease the development of an environmental impact study, which will then be declared in that second phase by an additional problem why we do not have investments and we need to give in too. In the first phase, it was going to go to the financial part and then it will go to further liberalisation of changes in spatial plans, environmental protection and environmental impact study. Such experiences unfortunately have other countries that are in a financial situation as well as Croatia. And if the procedure isn't the reason for the absence, the proof is the next quote. He said Minister Vrdoljak here for this pay phone when the law was on second reading. The following entry is added: The procedure has the task of establishing all the necessary processes, the competences of the authorities in which the appointment of responsible persons will be taken over by the competent authorities, the obligations of the State, the regional, regional or local authorities, the obligations of the investor and the dynamics of their enforcement. It means a completely clean picture of the deadlines, which responsible persons, which bodies of the state administration should do. Since no body has been subject to questioning the responsibility for non-compliance with the law and procedures since the law was passed, it is easy to conclude that the procedure clearly had no problem but that the law should be amended because of the monetisation of highways because the Croatian state is not registered as owner of land books and to loosen that part of the law spoken in the investor's obligation to provide financial resources for the implementation of the project. These are the only real reasons for the amendment of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95720	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95721	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Lesar, I agree with you that the data you presented on the number of strategic projects declared, and there are only three in 13 months when this law came into force, speaks sufficiently of the importance and importance of this law. In fact, it is unimaginable that this law that has been so loudly announced, that in just one year only three projects have been declared strategic and these projects that have already been largely implemented and for which documentation has already been reached, especially when we talk about the Zagreb coast in Rijeka, when we talk about TE Plomin and when we talk about other investments that have already been indicated that they have been asked to apply to the list of strategic projects. I will repeat what I have already said many times, this law makes sense to me at the start of a government's mandate when, before any obstacles are detected, barriers that prevent investment in Croatia. But in this session of the Parliament, we have passed a series of laws that could simplify the procedures that would facilitate investment in Croatia, and not by one law, to tackle certain legal obstacles that are in individual laws, and then to derrogate them. It would have been better if the government had said at the end of the term we had changed a series of laws, laws on ownership and other real rights, the Law on Maritime Goods, the Law on the Land Book and other laws defining the investment climate in Croatia, and then there would have been open roads for investment in Croatia, and not in this way when the law as we have seen it has not won any success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95722	Thank you. Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95723	Comrade Bačić, you are now both Plomin C and Piškornica and this terminal port of Zagreb are projects that would otherwise go regardless of this law, perhaps somewhat slower or harder. So it's not about new investment projects, and that's why I mentioned the problem when we're looking for information we just can't get. And to demand support for some change or for some law without first serious analysis of the effects of the existing law, but also data or an assessment of investment for these changes that are required is quite irresponsible and then I ask myself whether this project, strategic, investment projects are taken seriously by the government itself and the proposings themselves, or whether it was simply that the already existing projects only get acceleration, rather than new projects that should be entered into Croatia. And I am waiting for an answer to the question why Croatia is constantly working under hand and under hand, towards potential investors who are not from the EU area, and we are constantly going to ask someone else for an opinion, and we are not deciding for ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95724	Nenad dances, replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95725	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your discussion, you mentioned a strategic firm on the island of Krk, which is Dina and wondered what happened to 5m euros in state guarantees issued by the state to a company. I don't know your answer to your question, but I can tell you all of us here in the assembly and in public that this firm Dina is on the island of Krk in a catastrophic security condition. More than 1100 tons of dangerous chemicals are stored in tanks, and in what state is the fact that on the island of Krk in the places of Omislje and Njivica, beautiful lenses are distributed which talk about a plan of treatment in an extraordinary situation with chlorine. So there's been such a situation that the municipality's chief is already taking care of the population and if something is not done urgently with these facilities on the island of Krk, I'm afraid there may be catastrophic consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95726	Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95727	This is another possibility of a project... and perhaps even to seek support from European funds. So on Krk, the head of the municipality shares the leaflet to the population how to act if DINA Petrochemy Omisalj and their tanks fail. Here, print in 10 world languages per million copies, so when the tourist season begins, that every tourist gets instructions about how to act if there happens to be a disaster in a tourist area such as Krk, but also that church belt, Rijeka and on the other side of Istria, so that the foreigners in time, tourists are informed about the dangers that are near.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95728	Mile Horvat, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95729	I thank my colleague Lesar. You have moved me to this replica with your conclusion that it is obvious that investors are mostly welcome from EU countries, and you are asking why only they, why not others. I find that there is an even worse situation with countries in the environment, so the most undesirable investors in our country are investors in the environment. So let's not underestimate them. The fact is, let's say from, the most undesirable investors are from our neighbouring Republic of Serbia. But it is also a fact when you were talking about the country that many Croatian companies have bought thousands of hectares of land in Vojvodina, and at the same time it is an undesirable thing when it comes to the reverse process. So there is no case that something similar happened in Croatia, or that an investor from Serbia had a chance to invest his capital here. Of course, there is a factor and expensive investment, more expensive than in the domestic state, or in Serbia. But of course it's both a factor and some unfavourable environment of business that we created according to these relations. I also agree with Mr Linic's findings as well as with you that this legal framework will not solve the idea that should be solved. A string of factors is beyond limiting factors, beyond this law. Let's not mention that often the fate of large projects depends on the opinion of local people, conservative people, people and protection of cultural goods etc. which are a priori in the beginning very reserved according to some new objects in a certain environment. And if these facilities can be a very good source of big and new investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95730	Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95731	Comrade Horvat, I am pleased that you have noticed that we are doing a rather strange selection, I feel free to say similar investors in Croatia. In part, and these problems that you mentioned this similarity are determined locally at home alone, and when it comes to investors from beyond this part of Europe, then someone else does so for our account. So these days we had opportunities to witness that everyone in Croatia was supposedly happy when the president of Russia announced that they were giving up the South Stream to bring Croatia to the top of the energy hub for this part of Europe. They said it was very good. The EU has made every effort to obstruct the South Stream project for geostrategic reasons, but has forgotten to say that the northern flow with which Western Europe is supplied with gas was not a problem. And when they're done and when Germany and France have secured gas supply with two alternative directions, everything's fine. But when this part of Europe was supposed to have one of the supply lines of energy gas, then the EU's interest was ahead of the national interests of the Member States that should have any benefit from it. And what's worse, in the name of Croatian diplomacy and government, we could never hear a single attitude, not a single message, not a single interest. And as far as the terminal is concerned, for the gas ink on Krk, you will eventually see it will fall out so that we will have to finance it ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95732	Darko Milinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95733	Thank you very much. Well, I think we're a country of absurdity where, I don't think there's a country not in the EU but also a wider country that has so many limiting factors for any investment again. Well, I mean, and one of these is what you say is secrecy. So, you've been looking for information about strategic secret investments, then I guess secret investors should come forward, and we shouldn't be surprised that it affects investors too, that secret too. We don't need to be surprised, but the other day, we've asked the parliamentary representatives to provide us with a real state of health. I'm saying now we have over three billion kunas of total liabilities, between 8 and 10 billion kuna. We can't. Parliamentarians can't know that. And it affects investment, but they listen to people. Investors must be tracking the country they want to invest in. And now look at one absurd. I remember, here's the government where I was a member of an investment has fallen off because the Environmental Impact Study has shown you watch this now that this project will affect the afternoon rest of stream cancer in that city. I didn't believe it. I went to read it. And then only in this country do we miss the absurds and now we're doing an impact study, so if Apaurin could influence that river cancer a little rest in the afternoon, then we'll pass a strategic investment for that city. We've got that kind of data, I've read it. I didn't believe it. Here, therefore, a river, river, or river cancer could not rest this afternoon and behold the wonders of a fallen investment for that city. It's a land of absurdity. So there's no investment for that kind of banal reason. But what is important in a political sense if we determine 3 or 4 important strategic projects, then we must make further efforts in this Croatian Parliament to make it a strategic interest both of these governments and the next government And those governments there, because the next government will come. [[Thank you very much.]] This is a strategic investment... And then the second one will say that strategic investment is I don't know the hydropower plant in Kosinj at my place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95734	Comrade Lesar, you haven't called. On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95735	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In the Croatian public, perception is created and, of course, it comes from debates in this House that there are no investments in Croatia and that investors implement their projects in the surrounding countries. According to preliminary CNB data, direct foreign investment in Croatia in the first half of this year was 2 billion and 170m euros, which is 4 times more than last year. It's probably the result of an active policy of increased activities and measures to attract investments by the government of the Republic of Croatia, whatever you're talking about. Also in the portfolio of the State Agency, Investment and Competitiveness Agency there are around 150 investment projects. There are 109 investment projects in the various stages of realisation, and their total estimated value is around 7.2 billion euros and is expected to create more than 16 thousand new jobs after the realization. Also, the State Agency is involved in investment projects helping to find a strategic partner and we are currently talking about 41 investment projects totalling 1.7 billion euros. Let us not forget that we also have the Law to encourage investment in improving the investment environment that has also encouraged and resulted in this way in the work of this State Agency, the Government of the Republic of Croatia to increase competitiveness, encourage, attract and implement investment projects. So in 6 months, we have two billion and 170 million euros in foreign investment. Four times as much as the total of a year. Let's move on. Realized projects via the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, so we have not yet reached strategic projects this is what is done parallelly, pharmaceuticals 300m euros, production of 569m euros, tourism under way 5 billion euros, service 772m euros. So at different stages, 7 billion 170m euros are under way. When we talk about the structure of investment projects towards the country of origin in these 7 billion, 45% is Croatian domestic investors, the other 55% is from the EU and the other half from other countries of the world. So, when we talk about investment, we don't just depend on strategic investment, they're extremely important, so there's this law, too, because since it was a new law, since it was a strategic law, it's a very important law, and today and tomorrow, there are shortcomings, and it's clearly and openly saying that we have certain shortcomings that make it impossible for us to realise certain projects. Because after the 62 projects were registered, 28 of them private, there were certain problems to be realized as planned. And in parallel with this, these projects that are in the Investment and Competitiveness Agency can also partly be projects that are in strategic investment and it can be seen that it is not possible to solve these projects so quickly, so high-quality in a way that we want not only competitively but also to realise these projects. Whether this law ensures, it is also said in the introduction by the deputy minister, that it makes it easier to enter into a strategic project related to the insurance of financial resources. So it's being discussed which is an investor that can't provide 100%. So when projects are done that are in phases, they're big projects, then he can't realize a project that's being implemented in 5 or 7 years immediately, he's going into phases, and that's why he needs to give the foundation that's important to show that he's relevant, that he has the power of capital, that he's being monitored by banks, that he's being monitored by funds, let's not forget that there are funds that are even more important in these segments than just banks and that he can prove his ability to enter a strategic project. And then there's one key thing, other than transparency, so the government makes a decision and is published in an official messenger or in the National Journal. So, no secrets, it's all clear, everything is transparent to everyone, your own public, not just certain individuals, is in this House of High. Then it is 60 days for a project preparation and implementation agreement with private investors. This agreement, as well as any contract, is essential for the implementation of the law, for the monitoring of this funding which is missing or not delivered in 100% of the amount in quotes. And that is the key contract that we all together or our position and our opposition, the public, must know what it is and these are the conditions and security for the state and for the private investor in mutual rights and obligations. And under that segment, it's no wonder that the State's Attorney's Office is this segment, an institution that gives an opinion. Because since practice is in our country, so as we listen to so far debates about mistrusts, then obviously, that's the situation, we live in such obvious times, so it's better for the state's attorney to give an opinion right now than for the government to report to itself tomorrow to prove that everything's okay. Because we're getting to the absurd. I know you're nodding your head, but that's a fact, that's the fact that various applications are piling up, so then we're talking state's attorney's office can't work because it's too crowded. Yet here it is at this point about 62 projects that have been reported strategically. So, this is not about thousands, and this is about extremely important projects, because when we talk about strategic projects, so I have to remind myself, so it's about production processing activities, it's about development innovation activities, it's about business support activities, it's about high value added activities, activities in the energy sector, infrastructure activities and activities in the agricultural sector and the fisheries sector. Therefore, this technical detail whether, whether or not, it is minor at the moment, it may give added value, security in terms of implementation, quality of the agreement because the agreement is crucial, not only the government's decision, an agreement that defines a mutual commitment contract to make the more quality project go away. And the state, with that agreement, is making an additional commitment to the law. In the right way of responsibility that's being talked about, the terms and answers given, the analyses to make the project real. So, the state, the Government of the Republic of Croatia takes responsibility to speed up projects. And these changes, technical changes other than this we can't say technical changes, reduction with insurance 100% to 10%, that's a fundamental change, but it's related to what I've said is still an agreement and a certain phase of projects. This is what these amendments and additions of the Strategic Investment Act bring. I believe that most of you will support this law as well as the Croatian People's Party club, is it only supplementing the life and need of projects to be implemented and my investment introduction I think is clear enough and transparent enough to invest in this country and that the government has ensured good work competitiveness and attractiveness for investors. What's most important to the locals first and then of course to the foreign ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95736	Petar Baranovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95737	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My fellow Gjurkovic, as a man of the people, I create my perception with simple methods. When it comes to investment, then I've got a signal for investment number of building cranes, but you're on the road, so you're looking at them, there's no cranes, there's an investment or there's no cranes, there's no investment. And these cranes have become as common in Croatia as that car from the big American parks. So you'll find it very difficult to see a crane that is a symbol of investment. As you like to play with numbers, so you tried to play the same game today in yesterday's government's procedure that spoke about the strong growth of exports to Croatia, so you also talked about the strong growth of investment in Croatia, so you said probably very precisely and precisely as an economist that four times the amount of investment this year compared to last year. You just forgot that this level of investment last year is the lowest possible recorded in the last 20 years in Croatia. And you did not refer to the fact that on these fantastic 2 billion and some foreign investment in Croatia, in the same accounting period in neighbouring Serbia, which is not a common part of the European economic market, the amount of investment reaches 15 billion euros, i.e. 6.5 times higher than in Croatia. That's what you forgot to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95738	Srdjan Gjurkovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95739	Dear colleague, you say I play with numbers, I don't play with numbers, this is why I said the preliminary data of the Croatian National Bank directly on foreign investment 2 billion and 170 million euros in 6 months. So we had another six months of a respected colleague. I do not want to compare the Republic of Croatia with countries in an environment that are not in the EU and do not have standards for investors and standards that we talk about when we talk about the Strategic Investments Act. These are high standards, controls, and land availability, and using the means of entrepreneurs. I respect every country and their decisions, but standards that work in the Republic of Croatia protect citizens and not sell out land, but make decisions. Here's today's debate is whether the DORH has to give a contract, whether it has to give an opinion on the contract. Yes, because it takes care to protect the interest of the Republic of Croatia, to protect the interests of citizens and to protect the particular interest of property when we talk about it. Therefore, if there were fewer investments last year, then it can be said that this year was obviously the year in which it succeeded and proved that this government knows what it means to be a competitive country, what it means to be a partner to entrepreneurs and what is important in this data 44% of entrepreneurs invested, they are from Croatia. Because it is the key to development in any case, and foreign investment is always welcome to continue to be encouraged.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95740	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95741	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Gjurkovic, I claim that this law has changed nothing significant in the investment climate over the past year, nor will it change anything significant. And I argue that for the reason that in a year of its implementation, when it was intended to win the success of all three projects were declared a strategic project of importance for the Republic of Croatia. And that's what two indicators testify to. The first is the fact that they are not only three projects, and the second is that certain investments are carried out in Croatia, as well as in my county, and they did not even claim to be included in the list of strategic projects, but were implemented without this law and these investments were carried out. The investment climate in the Republic of Croatia can only improve the stability of the legal and tax system. In the past 20 years, the income tax law has changed 17 times. The same number of times the profit tax law changed. Almost as many times the law changed, or VAT rate. The VAT Act, the payment method and the VAT rate were amended. On the other hand, the investment climate in the Republic of Croatia can encourage the resolution of property legal relations, a regulated land book and a cadastre above all. These are the reasons why the investments in Croatia are lagging behind because the investors for these reasons that I have told you, which is a unstable tax system and on the other hand unsettled property legal relations cannot be established by a building permit, cannot quickly find and realise their investment. And if it were so best to testify to you and to the fact that exactly the investors who have and for which investments are settled property legal relations and exist, it was adopted... documentation, they could also according to that law that was previously in force, all within 45 days of their investment very quickly begin to realise...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95742	Thank you very much. Srdjan Gjurkovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95743	Dear colleague, thank you for this replica. You said one important and key thing that we can't hear on this side, and that's whose truth it is. Investments are being made without this law. This means that we have succeeded in the efficiency of both public administrations and the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, that projects are implemented without being strategic because we are open, strategic projects are linked to complex projects in which, without the help of the state, they are difficult to realise.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95744	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95745	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Gjurkovic, I do not dispute that they are and I am glad to hear the information that 4 times the investment compared to last year, that's good. However, I will only remind you that we should be a little more ambitious in this year when it comes to investment because 2 billion compared to some other countries of our environment are not much for Croatia. One Montenegro had 2 billion on only one investment to build a mega-yacht marina, only on one investment. Therefore, there is much work to be done, but operationally in order to carry out the investments. We can change the law like this every year, we can spot problems, we can spot shortcomings, we can change the law again, and when it comes to realisation, we keep falling. I repeat here, you can't keep covering yourself with the state's attorney's office when it comes to contracts. In this law, you extend the jurisdiction of the state's attorney's office for which there is absolutely no obligation to act. And I think it's a completely unnecessary thing because the responsibility of the head of the state administration, the authorities of the state administration, whether the ministry, whether the agencies, any county or any other body at local level, must have the responsibility to put the signatures on contracts or agreements. Therefore, not all can be what constitutes the jurisdiction of the state's attorney's office when it comes to the availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia. The state's attorney's office only gives consent to such contracts, not to everyone else. Therefore, I return again, no government has succeeded...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95746	Thank you very much. Thank you. Srdjan Gjurkovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95747	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, when you say in that country with 2 billion euros, only one marina made, then it would be fair and fair to say that the conditions under which that marina worked are conditions under which it would certainly not have gone to the Republic of Croatia, that we have half off the Shore trade without paying taxes on certain derivatives, etc., etc. Therefore, we have other instruments and measures of the Republic of Croatia that we encourage foreign investors to invest, to have benefits both in employment and in reinvestment of profits, but not in a way that we exempt them from certain tax laws. At this point, the licenses are 4 billion 396m euros in potential investment, 90% of which in tourism. I suppose with this law too, that next year the stone foundations, but also the first digs, because we're tired of rock foundations from HDZ's government, started and started. 6 months 2 billion and 170 million kuna this year shows that the investment cycle has started.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95748	Rajko Ostojic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95749	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, we're all subjective, and here and there we count cranes, I hope, when we're passengers, not drivers because it's hard when you drive along the highway and count cranes, but as Mr Gjurkovic said very clearly, the figures are objective and.... So, FDI '97. $543 million, 2003. 1989, immediately after the change of power in 2004 billion 179 million, 2010 record, but negative, $394 million, and now said Mr Gjurkovic these are data available to all of you Google, check and definitely as Mr Gjurković initially said these changes of the law so the law with these changes will lead to boom... were they greefield investments or brownfield investments, regardless.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95750	Srdjan Gjurkovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95751	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I would just like to reply that when we talk about competitiveness and investment in 2013 41 parafiscal imposition of the total value of 318.6 million kuna was reduced. From January to August 2014, 7 items totalling EUR 57,2 million were reduced or abolished, and 9 additional items of the total amount of Kuna 119,52 million will be reduced from September to December 2014. Total 2013 2014 reduction or elimination of 57 parafiscal burdens totalling 495 million 443 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95752	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95753	Thank you very much. My colleague Gjurkovic, I have listened carefully to your presentation where you have indeed tried to defend what is main and content in this new legislative proposal, which is that 10% of the financial structures of strategic investment are secured. Namely, what does that mean? You say you'll be working in phases, and then over time you'll be providing money for another, third, fourth, I don't know how many phases or how many years. And led by the experience he teaches us in these 23 years of existence, we see that this leads us as counterpart Ostojić said in boom, but boom indifference. Namely, what's going to happen? You have examples of the hospital in Blato, here in Zagreb Blato, you have from the previous state of Obrovac, etc. These are examples of investments, mainly in Blato, which has not been closed financial structure. It will come to the conclusion that contractors and subcontractors will not be paid because there is no financial structure, there will be an increase in liquidity, we will have what we have today. In my view, the strategic investment is any one that brings new jobs but in production activities, therefore in an activity that has added value that will generate added value. And besides, we've all forgotten here that the barrier that blocks Croatia's larger investment, and that's what investors are going for, and the kickings that we're looking at and listening to, and that's the IMT password, and that's if there's me there. So when the investor comes and hears that IMT mostly gives up and goes to other countries where there is no IMT password. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95754	Srdjan Gjurkovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95755	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a chance to welcome high school students and teachers from Split. So, a respected colleague of yours, you've hit some kind of memory from some system. So the job is the risk of the one entering the projects having a particular private risk. If he works in phases of the facility, if he works six hotels, he works one by one. Why? To reduce his risk and he provides funds at stages. Is it perhaps Srdj, whether it is another project is the most projects in tourism and it needs to be provided phasely. You today when you come to the bank or build or as an entrepreneur, you are controlled by the bank in phases, controlled by you and by the state if you go through HBOR, whether you have invested funds and cannot withdraw a new tranche and you will not be able to unless you have paid your suppliers. Therefore, these stories of yours are not true because they are not feasible at this time. That is why we have raised the standard from entering the EU and for our own sake. There's no spending money the way it was done, or maybe you at the HDSSB would be happy to keep doing it. I'm not defending this 10% bill to defend him, I'm arguing because that's what life has shown, because time has shown. And the number of these very quickly will also be seen potential but also these strategic investments that knock on the doors of the government's decision well depends in the first row on the amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95756	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95757	Thank you. Well, to be honest, I just can't believe what we're getting from this government, and especially from the Ministry of Economy on the table during your term, just from worse to worse. You for this bill of law and these amendments to the law introducing an agency into an administrative check without time limits when it will need to be carried out, introducing the State's Attorney's Office into the process, changing the financial regulations, so you will not lead to the growth of investments but also this little strategic investment that has them will probably not be realised. I don't even understand what's going on with you. So if those agencies don't have anything to do, then shut them down, and at least we'll save something in the state budget if we don't need those agencies, and if they don't have anything to do, then we'll shut them down, and that's how we set them up, and the goals didn't come true. And on the other hand, this story of investment, we all know that investments grew during the pre-recession period until 2008, that the growth of these investments was almost exclusively related to the construction of shopping centres and that these investments did not bring real jobs to the production and growth of the Croatian social substrate. So let's not look at the amount of money. And I really don't agree with you here, we don't need to look at Serbia or Montenegro, I don't know what applications, but let's look at the growth of the number of jobs and focus on Croatian production. And it didn't help Croatia much by bringing IKEA, IKEA into Croatian investments and getting another shopping centre that is selling to Croatia, selling foreign products and Croatian production is failing. Let's see what happens to Croatian employment and why today we have 40,000 employees less than we had before. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95758	Srdjan Gjurkovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95759	A respected colleague, therefore, is currently investing about 900m euros in production. This Strategic Investment Act, this supplement provides large investments for capital investments. But what has not been said so far, here I am taking advantage of the opportunity of replicating you and I am glad that in some segment we even agree, interestingly that every investment and every strengthening of large companies is dragging 4 to 8 new jobs into small and medium-sized enterprises. So these are statistics both theoretical and practical. And that's why this law and these changes are important. And they're always important when they're life, when they're not just to change things, to buy time. In the debate, the implementation of this law has been made clear, we have seen, we change, we need to react, we wait that we can realise certain projects not of small value. And what's important, what we've heard on this left side of me, or the right opposition, is that they accept that investments go without strategic ones. And that's this key message to me this day. As for the debate about taking you or Slavonia and doing all of this together, this government, and a respected colleague, remember the Regional Development Act. So how many municipalities and cities in Slavonia have entered now after 23 years of injustice to get the opportunity to get the funds where they deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95760	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Ivo Jelusic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95761	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with Associates, Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have a relatively small change and addition of the law, and we see that we have a very strong debate and a lot of debate. And I would even dare say from this debate so far they are not so controversial about these changes and additions and around them there are no more disputes than there are more debates over the situation in general, about strategic investments, about investments at all, about the country's economic situation at all, what is understandable. Otherwise, when a law is passed and after a few months or a year, such as in this case, changes occur and additions are often said in itself, so it is not good, why within such a quick deadline. I must say that in this case it is not disputed, however, in the case of a law like this that is specific to the law, if it is necessary now, I can say if it is necessary to make changes and supplement them in 6 months, in a year if something is found necessary, it should be done because it is simply in the function of improvement, not only of the law, because it is not the law for the sake of law, but in order to enable and facilitate the investments that we urgently need. Of course, this whole law does not just change and supplement and apply it from the fact that none of the existing laws are derrogated, that no one is favored at the expense of anyone else, at the expense of any existing law or contrary to spatial planning that some units of local self-government or state have. Therefore, by respecting all the regulations just to speed it up a little bit because we are aware of it all here and beyond that the unsustainable or unsupervised or irresponsible administration at all levels is in the good part of the brake of even certain projects. This law is on this track to unblock these brakes and to make projects of good faith, with responsible behaviour of all, at all levels, administrations from the lowest to the government give their pain to invest as soon as possible and to happen. Will these changes and this whole law contribute to that and ensure that it comes to... It will not in itself, but it will certainly help, and every help in this sense is welcome. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have seen so far from the presentation of the deputy minister from the debate that yet certain shifts have occurred so that we already have 3 projects that have been declared strategic, two are in the process of declaration, 8 is ready for commission and about 20, a total of about 30 proceedings are under processing, in realisation. Therefore, if all these 30 projects are dealt with positively, we will indeed have a serious increase in investment. What's new about this law? So that the financial structure is treated differently, so not that the entire financial structure must be provided or closed for the whole project but that when the project is declared by the Government strategically to deliver within 60 days an appropriate instrument that will guarantee that for... % of the value of the investment to be secured, that the financial assets are secured. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's okay. Because you can hardly expect someone to already have and secure all the funds in the first stage, or at least to ensure that they can be clearly shown and proved, etc. Secondly, it is to include investment and competitiveness agencies and the Investment Energy Sector Monitoring Centre, which is also fine because we expect, because this is their task. And therefore it is necessary to use their capacities to help those who have personnel to process the project go more comprehensively, wider and faster. It is also not disputed about the plots that are owned by the state or local self-government units, that if the spatial-planned documentation provides that... the relevant project can be resolved to go if the state is the majority owner or unit of local self-government, to call a public offering to seek out the best bidders. I think it's also a good thing that in this way you offer yourself if you have something, not just waiting for the investor to find the right space where he would invest and what he would invest. What a bit caused here is a struggle, it's about the agreement of the DORH on the very text of the agreement. Given that within 60 days of making a decision in the Government, it is therefore necessary to give its consent to the agreement and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the DORH, I believe that it is sufficient for each of them to comb, look at, and in this regard to be manifested and give their opinion. Therefore, I hope and believe that this will not slow the procedure, but that the state and the general public sector will, therefore, protect more. That's for sure, and in that sense, I don't see much of a problem. What is clear from this debate, therefore, is that there is largely no dispute as to the changes and additions of this law itself, so it is not disputed. There were several speeches about the situation in general. Of course, the situation is not good, we are not satisfied, regardless of the growth of investments, regardless of the progress we have made in terms of the economic situation and the state of investment in the country we are not satisfied with. That's clear. We've been six years without GDP growth, six years in crisis. Otherwise, lately, there have been a few months, a year and more, and here in the assembly in general public debate and in the media it is said that we are already here 12, before the 11th quarter of the stagnation that there is no GDP growth. It's like we've had growth before, like we've had growth before in the past few years. If it really were just so that we don't have GDP growth just these 12 quarters, that would be great. This means that since the crisis started, Croatia would have had a total accumulated 3% GDP drop, which would be the lowest decline across the European Union. Unfortunately, Croatia has a 13% decline in these 6 years since the crisis has been going on, but everyone has continued to avoid saying that we have a fall back six years than only these last 12 quarters so that there is no saying that it has confessed or tried to play on forgetting that the crisis was before, that the fall during the HDZ government was even greater, that the decline in their 3 years of crisis was 10%, and now it's 3%. It's still a big, big difference. So, what am I saying? If we had been the problem of the collapse of GDP in these three years, or in these 12 quarters, which happened, and had we not had a fall before, we would have been in a much better situation, we would have the smallest decline in the European Union. However, in order for there to no longer be a decline in GDP, it is also necessary for more significant investments to take place, to have more serious investment growth because GDP is affected by both investment and public spending and personal consumption and exports. Here's the export we see continuously from month to month growing which is encouraging. We expect that by changing the income tax of these billions of 800, 2 billion that will remain in the pockets, in the hands of the citizens, to spend them, to increase personal consumption. We hope that this law will also contribute to the growth of investments. Therefore, everything goes in that direction to break off the stagnation and move towards more serious development and to move forward with GDP growth. Of course, we're used to having GDP growth for years. From 2001 to 2008, we had an annual growth of 2 to 5%, but now there is no, partly because of the crisis that is in Europe, and partly because of the wrong concept of work, so if you want to, and because of the wrong investments we had during that period. A good part of our GDP growth in those years 2001-2008 was based on investment, primarily public infrastructure projects in the public sector, which we are experiencing as a problem today because these investments, of course, cannot give back money quickly, nor are they realistic, but they come as a serious burden in terms of public debt. As for the private investments that were also tumultuous at the time, the good part went, and above all there was reinvestment, and the wrong investment mainly in the real estate business that also appears to us today as a boomerang. Many companies and which did not have a basic activity invested in a real-estate business that is presently a problem for them because they were doing it not from trade capital but from loans, expensive loans that can't breathe today, and which put their basic activity at risk today because they went into something that wasn't their activity, which all went into real estate business and then brought high growth rates, but today it appears as a problem and today's problems... the economic downturn is the result that we then had unreal high or wrongly built GDP growth. So if there's going to be a significant increase in investment, I believe it will. There are, of course, inevitable, except for public investment and private investment. Here were today words about it, of course, that if the problem continues to be pessimistic or to scare investors that whoever is crazy to invest today in such conditions in Croatia because today it is simply trying to say in all ways that it is absolutely unstimulative to invest in Croatia, of course it creates an atmosphere that is not at all suitable for investment, which is not suitable for development. Some do so because they are in opposition, so it is their job to criticise, not realizing that they are causing serious harm not to those who are in power, but to the entire state. Of course, the problem is also great in the poor work of the administration at all levels from the lowest, from local to state. And I would dare say that the administration is doing its job as it is. A good part of this law or I won't tell the whole law, but a good part of the law would be lax, unnecessary. We simply have to admit and pass a law that requires people to do their job, to work up-to-date, responsible, because so far, unfortunately, that has not been the case. Thus, in this sense, this law prescribed stricter deadlines only to force someone to do what would be normal. Is that gonna happen? Probably will. If we don't do what this law says, it certainly won't. So this will certainly help. Is there going to be any further problems? Well, it probably will. Look, if, for example, someone in the local self-government unit is not in the interest of supporting an investment spiritually, whether or not this law can be made more difficult, regardless of who has an orderly permit, it goes into the project, pays for a communal contribution from which the infrastructure should be financed. If the local unit is obstructed or slowly constructs the infrastructure of course that the project cannot be completed, then it will not be completed. But well, the law is just a basis, and everything else is on people who need to do it. And in any case, these amendments and the additions to the law are progress and are improvement and will certainly allow as much investment as possible, and without investment, without investment, first of all, but also in the public sector, but first of all, besides private capital investments, there will be no more serious growth of the gross social product because it is not just the case in Croatia, it is everywhere. And I think this law and what it seems is a valuable effort that I certainly hope will give the results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95762	And now we're going to listen to the replicas until we break. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95763	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague Jelusic, no one in this assembly, so no one in Croatia is against investment either. Investments are the ones that can boost the economy and any law that goes in this direction is welcome. I argue that this law will not contribute significantly to the improvement of this investment climate if it is not entered into certain laws of lex specialis that treat certain activities and that is where the barriers that prevent investment are detected. Well, I replicated after you said that this law does not derogate any other law. And I will now list the two laws that derogate this law. First, Article 27 of this Law provides for the Law on Spatial Planning, for example, if the spatial plan of a unit of local self-government provides for the work of a urban planning for a strategic investment project. For any other project that has not been declared strategic, urban planning should be done. It's on the trail of that Latin proverb that's allowed to God, not the ox. And the second law to be derrogated by this law is the Law of Marine Good and Seaports. In this law, it is prescribed that concessions for a strategic project can be given for 99 years. And this law requires the government of the Republic of Croatia to do so. The Law on maritime good and seaports stipulates that concessions on maritime goods can only be granted by the Government for up to 50 years and over 50 years with the previous consent of the Parliament. Therefore, a strategic project does not require parliamentary consent. Therefore, a strategic project does not need parliamentary consent when concessions are given on maritime good, and as prescribed by the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. Therefore, it is not true that you said that this law, this law, derogates two important laws that prescribes that something that can be implemented for strategic investment cannot be declared for any other investment which may be the same strategic one simply is not declared within the meaning of this law by a strategic project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95764	Thank you. Ivo Jelusic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95765	Comrade Bačić, this law of course needs to and must speed up procedures and processes, in that sense and the ones you were talking about. However, it does not bypass units of local self-government in which spaces will occur, which are defined and which should be defined, so what will be agreed on there. They're involved in the whole procedure. So he'll be able to tell if it's in their interest or not. They'll probably normally say it's their interest, because if it's not in their interest, no one will force them to do something that's not in their best interests. What comes out of all this debate, not today, but otherwise, and to me it seems unnecessary, is that here it's like someone's goal is to do something that's kind of a marifetteluke, something that's going to be in secret, something that's going to happen to someone. Well, at least all of these procedures, all of these procedures, all of these projects will be publicly exposed. It is known exactly what are the names and last name of the companies, the number of projects, and the whole public has insight into it. Therefore, everything is absolutely transparent and if someone thinks someone is comfortable in the way they shouldn't, illegally or in this way, it's an opportunity to react to it. I know that the public is a good part thanks to the behaviour of the previous government a little smokes on the cold. So, when a good part of things went exactly to suit someone rather than to realize the general goal or the general interest here is not the intention. I know that maybe it's not clear to you from the opposition and it's not, it doesn't seem. I think someone might be doing it this way. But we're going to try to do it honestly and responsibly in the interest of general interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95766	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95767	Thank you. Well, buddy, let's get you to explain it to us one more time. You said that the amendments and additions to this Act would unblock the brakes and speed up the process of strategic investment. Another step is being introduced in the process, which is the administrative control of the Investment and Competitiveness Agency... for private investors without time limits in which that administrative control must be carried out and the procedure shall be forwarded further to the following. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How by introducing additional steps into the process, therefore in general, you will speed up the process and unblock the brakes when in fact changes and additions to the law are here you introduce additional steps that are actually in the process that this investment must pass. Well, I don't know if we've read the same changes and additions to the law. So from all these few of us actually altering and supplementing the introduction of additional administrative barriers. And that administrative supervision is not defined within which period must be implemented and within which time limit they must forward the subject further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95768	Ivo Jelusic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95769	Well, my colleague Djurovic, I don't see, I don't know where you saw it, that... or the agency that are the extra stairs in that whole business. So they're just another tool, another one of the places where they can solve it. Therefore, that everything is not to be processed, that not every subject must not be processed in the ministry but may also be in the agency... It is therefore not an additional one, but a parallel one or one that will help speed up the procedure rather than stop, not to return existing laws to another institution or institution that will do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is simply a real improvement. So we've expanded the circle of people who are now going to be able to process objects and that's just speeding up, not slowing down procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95770	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95771	Your Honor, Madam President. You said two things to your colleague Jelusic, that it was the administration's fault for all this and others, but before it grew GDP. What are you talking about? You know what the state budget was in the war government? It's exactly what the government deficit is today. And now you know how long it's been since '92. It has grown to this day, what the state budget is today. So how come he didn't grow up? It was a shopping mall, and that was what the people needed. It was the money of the state, but no problem. The highways were working, if they came more expensive to me, I'm sorry I should be punished if someone was building more expensive but it brought multiple benefits. Dalmatia has repeatedly returned, the prices of the highway possible and the theft of the money it received on the highway. Now, what is the problem today is there is no investment from counterpart Jelusic. Because it's not the administration's fault because the administration is implementing the laws that we're making here, the Parliament, and we don't bring anything here, but the government determines what needs to be passed, so the government is guilty. And we have to solve this problem. To get a government that knows what it wants, as it will, determined to be, has support in the Parliament, has support in the people and needs to be done. How are we gonna do something if the Prime Minister says we're not gonna do anything this year, do anything about it? So who's coming here to invest? And we know what the situation is now and what the investment climate is. And the Prime Minister says we won't this year, so when are we going to work? And now the state should be turned upside down in a positive sense, in terms of administration, to bring investment. That's our main problem. The problem is in our mind, the problem is in our consciousness, the problem is in our souls. It's like we're waiting for that street to start extorting these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95772	Thank you very much. Replication response, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95773	I am pleased to see more and more self-criticism with you, although she is not very much dared to say in public and completely. You said the government was guilty, of course the government was guilty while you were probably thinking about the former government that contributed to the 10% drop and it's three times as guilty as this situation we're in. I'm glad you're blaming the government, though you don't dare say it out loud and clear that it was your government, but here I'm going to help you detect the problem to the end. Yes, governments are generally guilty, each of which is proportional to how much the contributions grow or fall in GDP, yours has contributed 10 percentage points, ours for 3, so yours is three times the blame. And I'm glad you admitted that, too, but you were not allowed to say the name of that government to the end. As far as expensive projects are concerned, you said well that expensive projects were being done, more expensive than needed because this contributed to GDP growth. Well done. That means it could have gone even more in, it should have scared the tunnels 4.5 times and not just twice, and it would have probably contributed to GDP growth again. Strangely some theory that I disagree with, I think that public money that was supposed to be invested in far more investment than one investment that was too expensive or a few investments that were too expensive and that didn't give what would give a few investments parallel to working for that same money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95774	Rajko Ostojic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95775	Thank you very much. So the numbers are objective, clear, so I'll repeat them. Thus, GDP growth and growth, i.e. the investment of foreign direct investment in English FDA. So, in 2003, foreign direct investment a billion and 989 million, 2010 record low 394 million and now $394 million. It's about dollars all over the world in the FDA, and in 2014 in the first 6 months 2 billion 170 million dollars. And on the other hand, the decline in GDP, so by 2010, as counterpart Jelusic said cumulatively up to 10%, and now unfortunately up to 3% cumulatively. The law is good. Why are we changing it? Because of the experience. I will repeat, for the first time, that strategic investment or strategic investment projects are mentioned in the title of one law. For what? Because of the experience. He was gone. That's why these defeating results have been for the past 20 years or to paraphrasise Nietsche who said better grams of experience than tons and tons of theories. That's exactly what we're seeing. There were tons and tons of theories, action plans, strategy, no experience or will or desire, irrelevant. A gram of experience is better than a ton of theory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95776	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95777	Thank you very much. Kolega Jelusic, a colleague of Đurovic, has been replicating the roles of the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness and the Energy and Investment Centre, so AIK and CEIK as it likes to say it briefly. It seems to me that including these two agencies and giving their meaning in the process of achieving investments in the Republic of Croatia is, in fact, slowing down. And going through those agencies slows down the investment itself. So it could be said given their role so far and that the investment is actually very little, that "A unemployed pop and a goat crosses" and the two agencies that will be involved in the process of approval of investments. You also said that opposition is bad, malicious, and that it observes this law. It's not true, where you're lucky that by making arguments and counting investments, you can shut your mouth and make arguments that we can criticize. Well, we'd love to have a lot more employees mostly in new investments if they come, thank God, so who's against it. And when you talk about local self-government and therefore urban consent then tell me if your strategic investment is one of the three that you have a thermopower plant in Ploča did the City of Ploca and the County of Dubrovnik-Neretva? You're saying that in agreement with local self-government, you won't be building anything against the interest of local self-government. So do you have this agreement and has local self-government and regionalisation come to terms on this project, a major project of the coal-based thermopower plant?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95778	Thank you. Ivo Jelusic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95779	Comrade Grubisic, you obviously from the HDSSB insist on resisting something that is not going. But I will answer to you as well as to my colleagues, Djurovic. Therefore, inclusion in the procedure of these two institutions, so the CEI and the agencies are not slowing down or setting up procedures, but we are introducing another parallel entity, so not in the hierarchical below or above, so it's still new, but it's parallel that will be able to process projects parallelly so that it doesn't have to be the ministry. Therefore, it is helping the ministry to in terms of human resources, etc. So there's one more place to do business. Therefore, it is only an aid in business, so it is no new procedural trap. About that, about entrepreneurship and the climate, you said you were looking forward to it. Well, I'm glad, I think every citizen who wants it well and thinks this country should be happy when there's an investment, when there's progress, when something goes forward. But let's not, that's exactly why I'm talking, persistently spreading one climate of hope, that nothing in this state is right, that in this country can't work, that in this country we shouldn't work, etc. I'm sorry, but you were told here this morning for entrepreneurs that the mob or criminals are something like that. So in such an atmosphere, who will normally come to work and invest? Therefore, you yourself contribute to the creation of such a bad atmosphere. I'm saying exactly that, let's not say what isn't, let's not say things are niggers but what they are, let's go say things the way they are to open up investment space, for development, etc. In the very... capital is a frightened animal, he doesn't go where he's insecure. If here at the Assembly Speaker and at this table he says that entrepreneurship is equal to mafia and crime, which is crazy to come into this country and invest. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95780	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95781	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, in your debate, I agree with you when you noted that we cannot agree globally with this situation that we have in Croatia and the 0.5% GDP decline is very warning that we have to work harder. But you mentioned very well the link that 6 years ago was 7%, so 5%, so 3% and that drop almost 15% is not easy to solve in 2 to 3 years. I agree with you and with the conclusion that it's our job to be really proactive, if we have to pass laws after six months, I think that if we should and every month we go to change the laws just to enable a better investment climate in our country, better economic investment. And that's where we attach ourselves to what you've just mentioned in your debate why there's no warm support for all of these economic development measures? Why is there more liquefying for failure than proactivity and pleasure? What you said was that first of all, support should be started and best done by local and regional self-government. There is a foundation for all the foundations of development, and who I really must say that I fully support all these measures and we really are mayors, the mayors are doing everything we can to bring in the businessmen, to increase investment in our area, and there is the ministry and everyone needs to help us. And what's also said with the government itself and the ministry that they are the most responsible, and are they the only culprits? In Croatia, we also have universities, chambers, institutes, and academics and yet we all need to give the best solution for Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95782	We'll listen to another club. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95783	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister and colleagues and fellow MPs. I have to be quick, since Madam Vice President announced a break after the replica, but here I have 9, 10 minutes left, I won't be real long, I won't use all my time. Thus, the HDSSB club will be as it was against that first law and against these amendments and additions to the Law on Strategic Investment Projects in the Republic of Croatia, because it is precisely from replicas that we will be against it. So, in this legislative proposal, there is some way to say perhaps minimal changes in relation to the first one, and this is the introduction of the role of the DORH in giving an opinion in any investment that would be strategic. I think it was here that the DORH was already overcrowded with cases starting with a survey of crime and corruption, and to other catches that are in administrative disputes and other disputes in the Republic of Croatia. Maybe we should turn on PNUSKOK and help out like these two CEI agencies or what's called AIK as... to include PNUSKOK to help the DORH and to help the ministry together to decide on major strategic investments in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, no one is against major strategic investments, they say there are 3. I think it's a LNG terminal they say the land has a Hypo bank so nobody's saying anything about it, how the Hypo Bank will pass with its land and how it will blackmail investors and the Croatian state, I don't know. Thermo power plant Ploče, also another investment large, strategic, on coal with the poisoning of the Neretva Valley, which was declared not by me, but by the ecological associations in the Neretva Valley. The Dubrovnik-Neretva County, the town of Ploce and everyone else, so it's consistent with the units of local self-government because it'll bring great breakthroughs to the valley of Neretva and maybe we'll have black Mandarins to mutate and we'll have some benefits maybe. For me it is a strategic investment and for our club every one that brings new jobs into the activities that are productive, so added value if it stays, strategic investment is any one that would bring the production plant into any of the business areas that we have and which are unused by the ministry, let me say, written down and, some of them, I'm not talking about all of them. In Brod-Posavia County, we have 18 entrepreneurial zones, only 3 are active, 3 are alive, 15 is not yet alive. So if that were different, then maybe even a law like this might not be necessary. Although the situation with investment is in the world at the time of this so-called recessions different than they were six years ago. But money has, for sure, money, money available, but what does it cross investment and investment in Croatia? Of course that's the instability of the tax and legal system, we've heard here how many times the Tax Act has been amended. Then, both clearly and on the rate of contributions, then unsettled, still unsettled land, even though we are before we enter Europe that we will take care of land books, catastra, all this is not yet settled. The problem of corruption that exists between some and some, I did not say that all entrepreneurs are mobs, as my colleague Jelusic says, but I said yes, and in the end why and where does corruption even arise? You shouldn't even say that there is, which is this, a state without zero, is, declared zero tolerance to corruption, but unfortunately it's not because we have a scale of corruption all over Europe, so we're in the first place back there, so we're the best at it. So, all of this together says that those investments that were drawn in 2010, when Jadranka Kosor and her government brought an investment and investment programme of 14 billion euros or more than 100 billion kuna, including Kanal Dunav-Sava in Slavonia, unfortunately there is no word or interest in it, is more interested in it, some small funds are being invested even though this channel has more purpose, it is multi-purpose, it is beneficial for agriculture and for irrigation and for sailing and the merger of Danube and Sava, which is probably the centuries-old desire of our people and the ideas of our people in Slavonia. When we look at what we have proposed the EU for those Junker 315 billion euros, 77 projects, I would say 72 days on my heart lies a wound and out of these 77 projects we have received an assessment that they are not prepared, that they are not in a phase where projects could be said to exist, that there are solved property legal relations, that there is both a building permit and everything that should be needed for the EU to accept the project. We have here today a statement, which is why the European Commission is not giving a very good assessment of these projects proposed by Croatia to the EU. So how will you foreign or domestic private investors invest in the Republic of Croatia if the European Commission is talking about something like this? So, all in all, not to be longer and to be consistent, as I said, the HDSSB Club will not be for this amendment and the addition of the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95784	Replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95785	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So many times today you are colleagues of Grubisic, and you mentioned units of local self-government and their significance. We are pleased to hear that they are significant and there is certainly no leader, not a single unit who does not want to invest in its own field, which does not want economic progress, which in any case is welcome and everyone welcomes it, but of course not what is harmful to the environment. Of course not what's harmful to people's health. So we have an environment one of the most preserved in the wider European environment and now we should sort of... that's good for us. This should, of course, respect the opinion of local self-government units and respect these warnings seriously. But there is also a need to strengthen local self-government units. These latest developments with regard to these, therefore, revenue cuts, certainly do not contribute to this. Many units have projects for rural development measures, I keep talking about it, they have projects that are strong and they wait, but there are no competitions. These are all the things that are important for the creation of infrastructure, of course, to create a good environment so that investments can be made, and this does not contribute in any way to strengthening local self-government units, which we see as the main thing in all of Europe to strengthen them, to be quality, to do what is right and, of course, to keep the population in these areas. Well, unfortunately, we witness our sad situation in rural areas where there is potential for agriculture, growing demographic difficulties, and this certainly doesn't contribute well. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95786	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95787	Thank you, dear colleague Milinkovic. In fact, this law testifies to a highly centralised state that can order any unit of local self-government if it is any investment, regardless of the urban conditions of existence, the lack of it will be built there. So I also said the example of TE in the Tablets, sometimes as they say Cardelieu or as it was, so Alexander's question to God is, today they're boards. So regardless of the ecological standards Europe has signed by joining the EU. In the absence of investment, it has become a major strategic investment in coal. At sea and everything on coal and Plomin and Ploče, just to make one of them in Dubrovnik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95788	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95789	Col. Grubisic, in his truly picturesque debate, how you usually have, so that he moved from Eisenhower to the wounds of the heart, that you mentioned that for you, any investment is strategic if he opens up new jobs. I'm reading this one intentional misunderstanding, so this is really about strategic projects, about strategic investments. And here in the law is the definition that these are strategic investments, so these are all those investments that are nominally weighing more than 100 million kunas. So these are investments, which are more important to me, which change the economic structure in terms of strengthening both the energy sector and the transport and environmental sectors, etc. So it is important that precisely for these huge strategic projects that change the economic structure that the government moves or eliminates obstacles to their realisation. And what is also important, given that these investment projects will extend through several mandates, so their realisation is long lasting, it would be very good for the next government to support all these strategic projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95790	Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95791	Thank you very much, dear colleague, for your replica. It's very good. So the government doesn't move the barriers, it sets new barriers. So the role of the DORH, I said to PNUSKOK but the role of these AIK and CEI agencies is therefore the Energy and Investment Centre and the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, which are involved in the investment assessment process, is a new obstacle, an administrative obstacle. So she has to go through the hands of those two agencies and the DORH others, as assistant in the ministry's decision-making process. And as for strategic investment, if only money and money investment is the only measure of strategy, then I have nothing else to say, I would disagree.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95792	We'll continue at 15.00 hours. The first will be counterpart Petar Baranovic. It's a 13,28 o'clock meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95793	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the People's Party Club, the New Wave Petar Baranovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95794	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. A few comments related to this new law, perhaps more with the topic of investment in Croatia and the feasibility of strategic investment that has been going through the debate and going quite broadly. We do not consider in the club, nor do I personally, that the Strategic Investments Act is an unnecessary document, quite the opposite, we consider it necessary and any legal framework that really promotes the investment climate and makes it easier to make investment in Croatia desirable. Similarly, we do not find it naive that any new law that has been passed should be so impeccable, that it can be so immaculate that it is perfect and not subject to change. All the laws experienced novels after a certain time of practical application and so on. However, this law also mentions some points that opened the debate this morning, so I also hold on to the need to comment on some things. For example, the DORH, the opinion of the DORH, the mandatory opinion of the DORH and the involvement of the DORH in such procedures as investment planning. The DORH is an institution that should deal primarily with crime that occurs when it comes to investment and projects. We keep our opinions on the DORH, and we actually think it's a kind of brake. It has been shown in practice that when asked for an opinion from the DORH then that opinion is very often "but". There is a "but" for preventive reasons because every official in today's situation puts "but" as a form of prevention for his own safety. And then very often it "but" which sometimes is not difficult to slow down the process, the best example of it "but" and those opinions that are not mandatory we see in slowing down the process of putting into operation agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia and we could find that, but as a factor of slowing down very definitely and very much public investment, very much private investment that comes under the opinion of the DORH. It would be good if DORH were really and truly involved in sanctioning crime when it comes to projects, there are such recent examples. For example, in Zagreb there are examples in which entrepreneurs are pronounced, there are examples where investments are stopped, entrepreneurs are broken by large names and some prominent banks in Croatia. The case was delivered to DORH, DORH washed his hands like Pontius Pilate. Therefore, we believe that the opinion of the DORH should not be conditional when, as stated in the text of the law itself, the Ministry of Economy or the Energy Investments Centre or the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness carry out an administrative check of the applications received, the Ministry of Administrative Application points to an examination of the Commission. If we formed agencies, if we formed committees although it was about the commission of Sir Winston Churchill long ago said the actual essence of things to what then the DORH? Why would the institutions that are legally designed to verify the validity and quality of the documentation not take responsibility for the work they are doing and for the work that has been paid and the DORH would, indeed, sanction the crime that appears in the implementation of the projects? Secondly, about investment and investment climate itself, some speakers this morning correctly noticed that we have an atmosphere of legal uncertainty in Croatia, that we are changing the tax policy from year to year, from month to month, that investors today cannot seriously plan the visibility of their projects because they do not know what will happen to them tomorrow in this stampede of legal changes in the field of tax policy and generally when it comes to legal certainty. So we believe that in order to encourage investment, it is necessary to raise the level of legal certainty and return tax policy to the sphere of seriousness and accountability. What is now being done in Croatia is in fact what has characterized the late Stjepan Radić as the kick-ass goose in the fog. There are no other words. We know that the necessity, we know that this government has not received a great state of finances, we know in what state the state has welcomed, or has been given the responsibility to lead the state, but this is not an exculpatory responsibility for consistent, responsible, long-term policy-making that actually assumes investment. We heard yesterday and some thanks for the growth of industrial production. I'll be personally happy if it's really based on real growth in industrial production, really growing employment, but somehow I'm skeptical, it doesn't seem to me out there that there are any major changes beyond the walls of this Parliament. We also heard about the growth of investment in Croatia, yet GDP remains in decline. Somehow those two categories aren't there. It doesn't make sense that we have GDP in decline if we have indeed such remarkable industrial growth, export growth. It doesn't make sense that we have that if we have such a great increase in investment, or a satisfactory volume of investment. We don't have a satisfactory volume of investment, let's not let the ladies and gentlemen lie. The worst thing we can do regardless of our daily political needs is lie to ourselves, and it's worse, so I would say even rudely to lie to the citizens of this country. That's inadmissible. It's just inadmissible. CEI and AIK, Energy Investment Centre and Investment and Competitiveness Agency. I now ask an open question after thinking more than a year of the existence of these institutions. Honestly speaking, at the very beginning, I thought there might be a logic to the existence of both of us. After this time, what we need to realize is that there is no reason not to be an investment in which potentially energy investments would be one of the departments. We have an extra agency. That's what practice shows. An open question arises, the Energy Investment Centre exists as a separate centre. When we came into office, we had a very poor state of business of HEP conditioned by poor hydrological years, by the fact that electricity was imported in crisis years at a price that sometimes exceeded the very selling price of citizenship and industry. In order to resuscitate HEP's business and give HEP the strength, we conditioned it for planned investments, we raised the price of electricity, then rained in a country that depends on the rain, so HEP gained profits over the last two years, measured in billions. Three years have passed, no shovels in the new hydrocentrale have been buried. The Energy Investment Center, what's the radio center, what's HEP doing and what's our public investment? Where are our investments from public companies? So it's not possible that a public enterprise owned by a state had an obstacle to investing in a law like this or a similar normative. I'd rather estimate it's indecisiveness and incompetence. Unacceptable that in a situation where we cry for investment, a state-owned company, a respectable profit, sufficient to enter an investment cycle has not buried a shovel at any of the planned new hydrocentrals. Unacceptable. Finally, this proposal on amendments and amendments to the law is considered a technical document and we will treat it as such. But what remains as an open question is whether it is necessary to encourage investment and legal certainty in this country to carry out activities more up-to-date outside the economy ministry's work area, whether in this law and generally when you look at the space of possible investments, there are some issues that are being raised. One of the most important resources and space for new investments is maritime well-being. The past government has seen problems and shortages of the Law on Maritime Goods that we are working on today, and it has been in the process of adopting a new draft law that lasted 2.5 years. Three official proposals came out, a series of public debates were held, all the actors involved gave their opinions. The proposal was before the government came into office. It's been estimated that this document is not working. The decision was made to go into the making of a new Law on the Sea Good. We have completed three years of mandate, the proposal for a law on maritime goods is still not in front of this home, and it is the most valuable spatial resource and the area of possible strategic investment. And another detail, the application of the Law on Agricultural Land, can we remember again the famous DORH and the opinions, therefore not obligation but opinions, of 750,000 hectares of agricultural land, how much is put into operation? You'd better not mention the number. After a year and a half of the existence of the law resources, another resource for possible investment in this country, and even those of strategic character is not put into office and stands in the weeds. A third detail, a plastic example of how we do business. Among strategic investments are possible investments in agriculture, this means in mariculture and fisheries. Census is how much I remember 20 million kuna on my amendment, but not even that 20 million kuna investment for which we have the possibility of withdrawing funds from the European Fisheries Fund 2007-2013 in this year, but in the period 2014/20. in tens of millions of euros. In maricature, we can't use it for one so banal and irrational reason. In the adoption of NATURA 2000, the Ministry of Environmental Protection placed a complete area in the Adriatic where it would be possible to place a new large-scale plant under NATURA and automatically eliminate the possibility of increasing production in mariculture in the Republic of Croatia. The real truth is that strategic investment due to the incoordination of ministries and lack of inter-resorship cooperation and multi-disciplinary planning and work in this country is more than five million kuna investment in mariculture. It's not possible, because all we can and to what we're condemned to is exploiting completely existing locations in the part where they haven't been used so far, which is a negligible category. I therefore urge the Government of the Republic of Croatia not to create a commission when it comes to investment, because in committees, a smart man said everything. If you want something to never be resolved, just form a commission, we call on the government of the Republic of Croatia to finally start working together and plan for investment to be possible in this country and that is the only way to really get out of the crisis, not to bluff around the Croatian National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95795	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95796	Dear counterpart Baranovic, that HEP has increased the price of electricity under the pretext that HEP will invest and that public companies, which was also the government's decision, will be the drivers of investment in Croatia. And what you said is true. No shovel was buried, the electricity price remained the same, HEP is operating with, as you said billions of kuna profits. However, this is not to be satisfied, for these billions of kunas are actually fraud to those who pay expensive electricity. Neither did we get investment, so new jobs, and electricity is more expensive, and there's no excuse because, as you said, electricity increased at the time of the drought. The second thing that is very important is that in your debate you mentioned it is legal and tax uncertainty. Who will invest in Croatia when he knows that his trial will last for years if something goes wrong and if a lawsuit is necessary? Simply no one dares invest in Croatia because the trials in Croatia last three times longer than they last in Europe without saying when it comes to trade courts. The government has all the instruments with its parliamentary majority so that there will be neither tax nor legal certainty. It is only necessary to determine laws as I spoke in the morning about how long court proceedings can last. Because it's actually unnatural for years to run a trial in a business dispute when it's known to be losing big money and jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95797	Thank you. My colleague Baranovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95798	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vuksic, about the functioning and quality of the work of the Croatian judiciary, many have said many things before me, so I don't think I could add anything brilliant except that thing I mentioned in the debate, which is that the DORH should primarily be concerned with real crime that happens in investments and projects and make sure that in situations where investors are exposed to rackets and frauds and the same people are protected and not happening. I am responsible for that and there are specific cases that I can elaborate on. And as for HEP, it seems to me to be mentioned over the last two years some two billion kunas, perhaps more. It is amazing that in a country that is energy-dependent in all segments of the energy balance, even when it comes to electricity, we should absorb from investments in buildings that have long been plotted as investments in the energy of the Republic of Croatia. Three years, not three months. It is clear that for serious projects it is necessary to prepare the documentation, but in three years we have not been able to complete the project preparation and bury the shovel, to give hope to the citizens of this country that something has finally started to work. It's below every level.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95799	Stjepan Milinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Baranovic, let's agree that the laws are subject to change, changes of course with the aim of improving or speeding up the process. But here, if it didn't move, if it didn't even start then that Shumaher is adding gas in the best days, you can't achieve an adequate speed. If there is still a braking of what you were saying about braking right in the context of having agricultural land in that part you mentioned the DORH. I personally don't think the DORH in that part was the most braked. You know what slowed down the process for me the most? That Regulation prohibiting the availability of agricultural land. They worked more or less successfully, but there were certain percentages. Now this Agricultural Land Act has come, and what are the results? None. But even more tragic, it's devastating that I repeat myself again today that unfortunately it repeats that those who are stronger, bigger, more powerful push these smaller ones out. Here's an example I told Lipovljana today where no OPG has been given the opportunity to simply achieve that land, so that it can improve production. And not to mention the part where many are now waiting for these rural development measures, many have prepared projects. First they need the country, of course they need the country, of course they need the competitions they're willing to compete for, there's not one. And in that part, it's hard to expect a cure from our agriculture which, as you said, is very difficult to breathe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95801	Thank you. Answer, colleague Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95802	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Milinkovic's when it comes to agricultural production, then there are no innocents. And you know as well as I do that the balances of Croatian agricultural production have been devastating for many years, in fact since the Homeland War on here. We haven't been able to catch a few years of good agricultural policy. When it comes to the availability of agricultural land, large and small, the differentiation of production in agriculture is the only way to know clearly what is economically profitable to produce to the OPGs and in which... production and what will be picked up by large players. What Croatia is interested in is not importing 700 million liters of milk to meet their annual needs. And you mentioned the regulation that the minister brought in. I must disappoint you I do not agree with you, and this time I think the minister has passed a regulation that had its basis because if we are to speak the truth then we know very well that local self-government leaders have used their powers very often to strengthen their political position and to give the country to those in their political wing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95803	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95804	Thank you. Well, here's colleague Baranovic, you look at it now is the third year of the government's mandate, changing legislation many times. Any investor who reads these amendments to the law will actually conclude that additional obstacles are being created and that things will go slower. Countless times the business environment has changed over the past three years, elections are the longest in a year. You are now a serious investor who is thinking about a big 20.30m-euro investment at the moment. So, you plan to make a new employee so much according to the law that the tax on profits will be so much income, that the parafiscal burdens will be so much, so you're creating a financial plan and you're thinking about whether to go into that investment. You know that this investment won't even be possible before the election, so the next year. You know that whoever you are in a year this government will not be. In conditions such as those in Croatia, you know that after that, everything will change again. And that your entire structure, the whole calculation, and everything you've planned, will no longer hold water. And what are you going to do as a serious investor? Well, you'll go somewhere else. Why would you even be entering this space in such a serious investment, say a large production investment, as a foreign investor who comes to Croatia when it is unpredictable anything but a change that will certainly happen. I guess the only thing that is predictable is what is certain and always happens in social life both in the context of the economy. And that's what we all resent all the time. Because we all know that we don't have any continuity and any transmission of any environment when it comes to the shift of power. They're already running a new try, some new model and so on. And that's the problem, and that's why it's gone, and that's why maybe the only answer to the election is now. So let's at least go into a 4-year kind of as stable cycle.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95805	Thank you. Answer, colleague Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95806	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Djurovic, more than one mandate is needed to create perception of a favourable business environment and legal certainty. It is necessary for all Croatian policies, all parties that have representatives in this Parliament and all those who will have them in the future to understand that there are things that are of national interest that there are categories that require long-term planning and in this particular case legal certainty, tax policy. That these are things that can't be changed year by year by year by year as the figures at the Ministry of Finance say. And we must generally change our approach to state leadership because what the Croatian policy has shown over the past 20 and a few years is not worth a decent comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95807	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Mirela Holly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95808	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the presentation, I would like to say that I will not support this bill because I believe that during its construction the environmental law, or the obligation to conduct a public debate for a month, has been largely violated. As we could see in the final part of the document, the public debate lasted only 15 days, i.e. public consultation, which is not in line with the provisions of 163 and 164. The Environmental Protection Act, which requires that all laws, draft laws or proposals for amendments and amendments to the law must be passed, which have a certain potential negative impact on the environment, must be discussed during a public debate of a minimum duration of 30 days. That's not the case here. And that's why I don't think there's any reason for this law to be passed in an emergency procedure or for it to be brought in this way at all. What I am about to say today will largely coincide with the remarks made by GONG and Green Action during the public consultation because that is what I was saying when the Strategic Investment Act was just being passed. In fact, I believe that the Law on Strategic Investments, as well as this law that amends and complements certain provisions of the Strategic Investments Act, represents the capitulation of the state before bureaucracy. And this is inefficient bureaucracy, inefficient, red tape that pleases, which has complicated procedures, and which is why, after all, why we are not today, and we are not a country where the same rules of play apply to everyone, but rather we are a state in which attempts by these laws require some sort of shortcuts and shortcuts to try to achieve some kind of investment projects that are then declared with strategic investments. I would like to stress that I am not against the fact that we have the Strategic Investments Act, but I believe that it must be precisely and precisely defined as a strategic investment, and strategic investment must be one investment that is in the long-term interest of all citizens or at least one part of citizens living in a particular area of the Republic of Croatia. These must be projects related to municipal or other infrastructure, and there can be no question of any projects that have a profitable private character. And that is why I believe that the general idea of the Strategic Investments Act was completely missed, i.e. that it was necessary to pass a law which would define exactly what strategic projects are, which are strategic investments for the Republic of Croatia because they ultimately raise the quality of life or communal standards of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I think this bill is actually a desperate move. In spite of the fact that the Strategic Investments Act has been passed, the main intensity of which was to launch, come on conditionally speaking big investments in Croatia, we have seen that over the past year and a half and almost two years have come to the realization of a very small number of projects and that there are a very small number of investments on the list of strategic projects today. That's why I think the law's intensity is completely missed and that even these changes won't actually make anything substantial. In fact, although the Strategic Investment Act sought to favour individual investors in relation to other investors, which I do not think is a good environment for a democratic state that wants to have equal rules for all, even that wasn't enough to attract investors. Why is that? Because we have, as I have already said, inefficient public administration, we have very complicated procedures that encourage discretionary decision-making in public authorities and we have an inefficient judiciary. And as long as it does, we won't actually be able to attract more serious investors in Croatia. Unfortunately, this law does not seek to solve these structural problems in the Republic of Croatia, and the exact opposite could be said and instead of moving towards that goal to become a quality, efficient society, a society that will really give everyone equal rules of play for everyone, trying to find some shortcuts again, lowering certain criteria that certainly will not lead to the arrival of serious investors but may lead to different speculators or non-serious ones who will certainly not have very good intentions. And the question is, is it then the state's interest to actually attract exactly such speculant investors and I have to ask you a question, so is that really the best and the most we can do? If you ask citizens what are the biggest problems they face you will surely be the answer that we do not live in a righteous state, that we do not live in a country where in a quick, effective way they can exercise their rights or result in solutions and permits issued by public authorities. So as long as it's gonna be that way, it's not gonna be good. Unfortunately, I also have to look back at today's statement by the minister of administration saying that the current government has no intention of doing anything drastic in this direction, which means that it does not really want to solve those problems that are key and problems in Croatian society. It is not going towards reforming the expensive political, clientleistic, territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, it is not going to reduce the number of units of local self-government, it is not going to abolish the county, it is not going to form a region, it is not going to a qualitative public administration reform for this simply there is no political will, unfortunately. Another very big problem that can arise from this document, means the overall Strategic Investment Act, which is the ASDS procedure. We know what is currently happening at EU level with TTP, or TTP, as they call it. Unfortunately, some countries today have already had negative experience related to the ASDS. The question arises if, in this way, we are going to attract potential unscrupulous speculators, won't we as a state pay a very expensive financial price for this recklessness?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95809	Thank you. Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95810	Dear colleagues Holly, actually this one part of your debate might be called speculators ahead of the rest stand. I agree with you means that those who do not mind inefficient public authority, those who do not mind inefficient justice, and who invest in Croatia are at great risk. Well, then they're either speculators or they're adventurers, that conclusion could be said. You said the public administration is inefficient, it is poor, slow, inefficient, however, both the prime minister and the government have said that they have no idea of doing public administration reform or doing local self-government reform. What do we need reforms for? I guess it's all right, I guess we're just too satisfied with how the public administration and local self-government and justice that's early society cancer, and then there's cancer for the investment environment. I agree, there's no need to lower the criteria. The basic criteria that are exactly that, the good judiciary, a good tax system that does not change every 3 months and a public administration that will meet by respecting the laws in the face of investors, which will not delay licenses for several months or several years and in which investors will not be recalibrated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95811	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Holly, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95812	My dear colleague, why did I say that unfortunately with this law, if it comes into force, and that it will certainly come into effect only speculant investors can attract it? Because if the intensity of this law is to mitigate the financial conditions for the implementation of these projects, then it means that we will attract potential investors who will not be able to prove that they have secured funding sources for a project, which is a very dangerous situation and it will certainly not go in the direction of realising quality projects that are indeed of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. Of course, there's a difference between those projects that are communal standards and which have actually been on this list so far, but we can't guarantee that in a few months, the strategic investment list won't find a project, e.g. The golf course on Srge. And who guarantees that unless there is a total implementation of this project declared by a strategic investment project, the investor may not activate certain instruments.... I'm worried about it, and I'm afraid it doesn't seem to concern the proposings, or the government of the Republic of Croatia. So far, this law has not fulfilled its intention in its application, so I believe that the government should accept important, serious and thorough work and move towards real implementation of structural reforms, not with such laws to try to save something that is impossible with such laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95813	Thank you. Next up for discussion, Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95814	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleagues and colleagues, each time in the future, at least a small look into the past begins, that we know how to analyze the situation and say that the current situation is, and only for a short time, that it has been going on in Croatia, the EU and the world for two decades in the past, and what foreign direct investment was. So over the past 2 decades in the EU and Asia countries, the Asian Pacific regions have been characterised by 4 principles, deregulation, depoliticalisation, privatisation and the elimination of customs duties due to economic integration. Deregulation in Croatia was obviously a hyperregulation, depolitisation in Croatia was politicisation to politics, privatisation, you know what privatisation was like in Croatia, and perhaps there were some suspensions of customs duties, some other trade barriers in which Croatia followed the world. This 4 pair... every national economy in the regulated countries became more interlinked with each other including 4 factors, 4 actors, these were consumers, producers, suppliers and government in particular the transition countries were afraid in the 1990s, had doubts, had.... So, in any case, they didn't look at the FDI with optimism, which is understandable since it was a transition. Foreign direct investment can be divided into several groups, depending on purpose, objectives and motives. So I can be vertical and horizontal, I can be so-called. direct investment,... therefore direct investment from... or... investments and 4 according to investment motives, conditioned by market motives, resources, services, i.e. investments to improve efficiency and so on. strategic investment. I will repeat, by strategic investment and therefore this law is a significant step forward in relation to existing legislation because this is the first law to mention clearly 3 words, the Law on Strategic Investment Projects, so 3 words, strategic investment projects. So, in short, the world's been building on it for decades, years, and we're building on it for the first time in 2014. In 2000, the exception was when Mr Linic was Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, when a law similar to investment was passed, did not mention these 3 words, but was an incentive to invest which was changed in 2006, and was characterized by it for that time, so a decade and a half ago a significant tax relief, employment subsidies and, of course, customs relief. What is the purpose of this law? Everyone spoke, and the deputy minister and all the clubs were in opposition or position, was the opening of new jobs. Create new jobs. Open jobs and you know it yourself, at least my generation remembers the Cold War so they were afraid of who has more atomic,...it's a stronger power. Obama said in his first term, it's not anymore, it's the strongest force that has opened the most jobs in the past month, we see it today. Let go of the weapons, let go of the warheads. The biggest force is the one that has opened the most jobs in the past month, one year, five years, and that is the goal of this law, which I am stressing for the first time explicitly cited in three words strategic investment projects. Nietzsche said, "Better a gram of experience than a ton and a ton of theory." We had no experience, we had bad experience, bad privatisation, hyperregulatory, politicisation and politics, and after a year, the government, and thus the Parliament saw that there were some obstacles to investment investments, and I think they were very logical and Mr Gjurkovic and Mr Jelusic very logically pointed to narrow throats and expanded those bottlenecks in the expectation that these projects would agree with Mrs Mirel Holy who could have been better because only three projects were realized or there would be realisations, two were on hold, and the other 8 are in the procedure, and 22 were on the so-called. active observation, so a total of 35 projects. There could have been a lot more, but there was still significant progress. What was the foreign direct investment in '97? 540 million kuna, 2003. A billion 989 million kuna, 2004 billion 179, 2010 record low, beware of only 394 million. At the same time, the decline in GDP over the past six years has been up to 10 years, although in the last three years it has been cumulative for three index points. Therefore, this law has finally managed to put in place, make maximum use of resources and agencies and CEIs, so these are not new agencies, they already exist, better exploiting their human resources. And as for the DORH, of course, there are 60 days if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the DORH were to give their wages to that law, there are arguments of the project counter but imagine yourself that you would rather wait 60 days somewhere, and that all are clean jobs than to invest and that then your assets, effort, human resources will be frozen for the next two decades. So I think this law if nothing theoretical, and it has begun a practical significant shift over the past two decades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95815	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95816	Yes, very briefly. Well, a colleague of yours has repeatedly provided data on the size of the investment in the Republic of Croatia over the years. So tell me, how long was 2007, 2008 that election you're skipping? Of course, it was the most investment at the time. However, I have already said this level of these investments was not an indicator of Croatia's economic development but was an indicator of investment in large shopping centres around the city of Zagreb, around the city of Split and around other major cities. It was these big investments that were real-estate balloons and other balloons that were blowing up and they started blowing up in the recession. Why did I want to make a reference? Because that volume of these investments and that example in 2007, in 2008 when they were most in all indicators, did not correspond with any... but corresponded with the inflating of the empty balloon that we saw blowing out in the recession. And there's something else I wanted to add, we're not talking about the new law now, the law was passed a year ago. we are now talking about amendments and additions to several articles of this law, so we have been applying the law for a year and we have very weak or we can say no results in its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95817	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95818	He's right, co-worker Djurovic, so 2007, even $4 billion, you're right, $4 billion. And why? Not because of the shopping mall, because of the IPO. You know which companies went to the IPO in September, August and September and October 2007, you were preparing for the elections then so you know. Perhaps you were involved or someone who worked in Germany. It was simply an IPO accordingly it was that jump... and you're right in that system and even now for the last two decades our citizens have been forced to invest where in bricks in cement. They built cottages and houses if socialism was simply not allowed private entrepreneurship, so our people who went to Germany worked houses in the coast and Dalmatia to take advantage of them for just three weeks during the rent during tourism, so there was a different mentality that agreed. The housing of the last 3.4 years doesn't exist, but despite this, I'm going to repeat the first 6 months of this year is FDI 2 billion, and you're right that in 2007, it was totaled 4 billion for shopping malls to be due to shopping centres because of the IPO three large companies, and today there's no housing, no shopping malls or IPOs, and we have this increase and these are facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95819	We're continuing an individual debate. Drazen Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95820	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This law would obviously say removes the perceived shortcomings in implementation and brings improvements that are assessed by the promoters as necessary in view of the practical aspects. By studying the text of amendments and supplementing this law, I find it difficult to find something controversial and I believe that the proposal should be supported. However, I must make an observation that does not refer to the text of the law itself but to an additional explanation. What is mentioned in the bill, though, as an explanation of the proposal, and I would say that it is essentially a clear description and repetition of the legal text, rather than an argument in the right sense of that word. Since most MPs do not have direct insight into the implementation of this law, I believe that the argument should nevertheless be more profound with a much clearer explanation of the purpose of change and change. This is not the specificity of this proposal alone, often the promoters do not only explain a well-defined proposal from this ministry and therefore we as representatives need to reach out to additional sources of information in order to get the information that we really need to get from the promoter. I note, on the basis of an additional study of the bill, I believe that this law contains good solutions and that it certainly needs to be supported. But I'm saying, again, I'm appealing to practice that these arguments are still a little bit more extensive and get into the depths. I think you owe it to the MPs, but you owe it to the public. But for the debate, I have actually come forward to point out some things that I don't find in my changes, and I think they need to be pointed out. Talks with foreign investors and potential foreign investors often point to three main obstacles to larger investment. The first is therefore the slowness and ineffectiveness of the administration, i.e. red tape, and I believe that this law and the proposed amendments and additions respond well to this problem and therefore I support it. The second is the uncertainty of business with regard to the regulatory environment. It's basically the most common remark. And there's another one I'd say we're not always coming up with the right answer we should find. There is often therefore this uncertainty and a certain fear of changes that will change business conditions and often investors not only recently but also in Croatia dare not invest, they have some fear of investing because of circumstances that can change. My impression is that we should, as one proposal through the legislative framework, for example. to provide a clause in the Agreement on the preparation and implementation of projects thus guaranteeing the investor protection against negative changes in the regulatory environment, for example over a period of 10 years. I think that such a solution would give the investor security regardless of any political change and remove one of the most important reasons why investors view Croatia as an investment opportunity. I'm saying not since yesterday, but through one whole period. A third and main obstacle which, I would say, turns the investor away from more investment in Croatia legal uncertainty. Too long duration of disputes, unresolved property-legal relations, the inability to collect claims is cited by potential investors very often, therefore as a significant factor of deterrence. And here we should certainly try to find solutions together. And in the area of legislation, I would say that we have created a good framework for courts to function well. But often in practice things don't work properly, often for certain subjective reasons at the level of the courts themselves. In order to overcome this problem somewhat as one solution, I believe that in the preparation of the projects, we should team up legal teams that, in order to say, clean the papers, resolve property legal relations in preparation. These teams should also support a strategic investment project by the state. So we're interested in making the investment happen, that's what I'd say national interest, and I think we still need to take steps here, all the steps we can, perhaps even unconventional. Also resolving property-legal disputes arising from a specific investment declared strategically, I would say it should be regulated as an emergency dispute. I think it's possible to regulate it legally. This urgency, however, also raises the issue of real implementation of the provisions on the urgency of a procedure. Unfortunately, in practice, this provision is often too often a dead letter on paper. Let's say for example. It is prescribed that the proceedings since the initiation of the procedure are urgent but that there are examples of such disputes lasting 4 years. So urgency in my opinion should mean resolving disputes for about 6 months tops. Unfortunately, we testify that the real situation is much worse. It is obvious that we must make some of the changes that we have here go beyond the debate on the very proposal of this law, but it is necessary to mention them in this context. It appears, therefore, that we must also introduce into the legislative framework some concrete provisions which will be concretely finalised, unwarranted overruns in which courts have to settle disputes, in particular these disputes concerning property-legal problems concerning strategic investment. I'm saying it's a matter that goes beyond this debate, but if we all have an expensive goal to encourage not only investment but generally economic activity, the problem of inefficiencies of courts must be pollemized. Finally, as I have said, I conclude that this proposal will contribute to the objective of the law, thus facilitating larger investments. But I also appeal that the remarks I have made here are taken into account and that because of the importance of matter, the public and the representatives are familiar with the effects of the application of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95821	Thank you, too. Next up for the Damir Rilje debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95822	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The fundamental issues which want to be settled The amendments to the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia have actually been adopted in order to facilitate its application and efficiency. So here's a few of my thoughts about the existing situation, but what these changes and additions really talk about and what they bring. So in a year and a half as the government's commission has actually about 50 to 60 reported projects, someone said 54, someone was 62, only 5 were approved as strategic, 9 projects were just being considered and 18 was being prepared, 7 was rejected due to incomplete paperwork. Strategic projects, therefore, as we heard, except for the Termopower Plant Plomin C, the container terminal in Rijeka, the Centre for Waste Management Piškornica near Koprivnica will soon be LNG terminal in Krk and the upgrade of the airport in Mali Losinj. The newspapers proposed are the regulation that potential strategic projects can be realised on a property over which the Republic of Croatia has most co-owned parts according to the state of the land books or on real estate over which the Republic of Croatia and the units of local and regional, regional self-government have most co-owned parts according to the state of the land books and which, by spatial plan, is planned to develop investment projects or on a maritime good if it makes up a functional and business unit... listed above in the real estate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, here comes the problem of the consistency of the specified particles in the cataster and the land. The selection of an interested investor for the realisation of a potential strategic project shall be made on the basis of a public call. The Republic of Croatia... units of local and regional (regional) self-government based on a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall enter into an agreement on the conditions and manner of land availability. Since most of the projects reported did not have a closed financial structure, this proposal would allow investors to submit more easily and flexible financial documentation related to the project. In the case of a private project or a public private project, an interested investor, the project reports to the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, and in the case of a private or public energy project, the interested investor reports a monitoring centre for the energy sector and investment, so CEI. Both AIK and CEI carry out administrative verifications of received applications and order an orderly application to the Ministry of Economy, which also points to an examination of the Committee for the Assessment and Determination of the Proposals of Strategic Projects, and when it comes to the public project, the interested investor reports the project to the Ministry of Economy. The new provision of this bill proposes that administrative affairs be carried out for the commission with the current Ministry of Economy and AIK or CEI, and in cooperation with the central authorities of the state administration which have been found to prepare and implement projects in part or fully fall within their jurisdiction. After the Ministry of Economy or the Centre for Energy and Investments or the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness carry out administrative checks on the applications received, the Ministry of Economy of Regulatory Application shall refer to the examination of the Commission. Obviously, this proposal amends and amends the laws part of the administrative processing business of the received applications is prescribed in the AIK and CEI jurisdiction and, in addition to the faster and better quality processing of the applications received, the maximum use of existing administrative capacities and the fact that those agencies are operating precisely on investment projects. The new provision also stipulates that the central authorities of the state administration are obliged, at the request of the Ministry of Economy, AIK and CEI, to give an expert opinion within 10 days of the date of receipt of the application or the documentation in question, and a written positive or negative assessment of the acceptability of the strategic project proposal, and to assess the acceptability and strategic investment project and to refer the application to the Commission. The new provision of this bill also provides that a private investor, within 60 days of the date of adoption of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the declaration of a strategic project, must forward to the Ministry of Economy the exchange, the debtor and proof of the guaranteed sources of financing of at least 10% of the total value of the project involving the bank's domestic or foreign bank's bank's bank's bank's bank's banking guarantee or the purposely deposited funds for a period of 9 months. Unless a private interested investor submits financial documentation within 60 days of the decision to declare a strategic project, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, on a proposal from the Commission, decide on a decision to declare a strategic project out of force. The new amended provision also provides that the Agreement on the preparation and implementation of the project with a private investor shall be concluded by the Minister of Economy, with the prior opinion and consent of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and the DORH within 60 days of the date of adoption of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the declaration of the strategic project. Perhaps one small doubt within these newspapers, how much 10% of the security of the selected strategic partner is, how much this ensures the security of project implementation in terms of continued remaining investment above the 10% to full investment during the project implementation deadlines set. What is the insurance for the Republic of Croatia to execute it? Is the commission sufficiently efficient to monitor, together with all those who serve them, an effective monitoring body and possible removal from the list of strategic projects if there are justified reasons, and certainly these are the funding and deadlines for the implementation of strategic projects. These amendments to the laws highlight the provisions laid down in Article 12 of the applicable law, resulting in the fact that the meaning of this law is not only an acceleration of the implementation of the project but can be interpreted as formal acceptance of the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to implement a particular project in the content as provided for by the investor, regardless of the other laws and interests or obligations of the State, or the rights of third parties. This could create major problems in practice and result in the responsibility of the state for damages, i.e. the state could be in a position to be responsible tomorrow for the damage to a strategic investor who has failed to meet its legitimate expectations, taking into account this within the framework of European legal norms. The inclusion of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and the DORH is proposed, as it is a problem for international contracts on the promotion and mutual protection of investments, and for participation in the settlement of disputes between investors and the state, and for cooperation with the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia in the friendly dispute settlement procedures with foreign investors, and for the preparation of arbitration documents initiated on the basis of the incentive and mutual protection of investments in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, and the DORH represents the Republic of Croatia in proceedings before courts and administrative bodies and protects its property and legal interests. The question remains whether the law itself is sufficient to encourage strategic investment projects or whether it may be a problem in the system. Employers can obviously welcome a law that will facilitate the start of investment of around 150 million kunas or as long as it is at the right time, but I believe they are aware of the issues of how they will really solve the usual investment problems. So it's on the questionnaire. The question is also how many items will be dealt with under this law in the first place. If they are questioned whether some new provisions of the law will make it easier or difficult to invest, such as the fact that each private project now requires approval not only of one but also of the ministries and the state's attorney's office. So aside from a lot of things being questioned, I think here's the spirit of this law that draws forward investment, that is, investment expansion. And I think it's one of the laws that will probably have to suffer some changes in the future, but that's the price of looking at strategic projects. Of course I support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95823	Thank you. We have one replica, Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95824	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. As far as I've managed to catch your debate several questionnaires you've opened. I don't think you understand the essence of this law. So this is about the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is absolutely speeding up the process of obtaining permits, consent, exemption from the Agreement on the preparation and implementation of projects with a private investor that must then be verified by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the DORH. And there are obligations and responsibilities relatively small since it is purely procedural matters, documentation, procedures and resolution. After the investor goes into construction, then it is clearly only realistic to monitor the dynamics of construction and normally to finance it. Therefore, the government here with a private investor is not the one financing it, so half the government, half the private investor. This is about monitoring documentation, speeding up certain processes and all in accordance with the laws applicable and existing from spatial plans to all environmental protection laws, etc. It only accelerates and gets the person or persons who follow him not to knock on the door, not to be 60 days, but to be solved within five days, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95825	Thank you. My colleague Rilje's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95826	Dear colleague, esteemed vice president, esteemed colleague. In fact, I didn't open the questionnaires, they opened up these amendments and the additions to the law. So, they prescribe 10%, not me, that's what this is about. On the other hand, I didn't trouble them, I'm not saying it won't help achieve strategic projects, maybe it will. But the fact is also that this law brings more bodies that will need to be actually involved in the whole story about the adoption of a strategic project. So here's what we're saying, just before I counted them, not to repeat myself, and not to take enough time. So I don't know what the reason was. I agree it's a procedure, but everything here is a procedure and every law is actually prescribing some procedure. So I have to admit that this law also adopts a proper procedure and with a profound change from the existing law. And it's okay if she'll help. Just because I ask some questions that have opened up to me in person doesn't mean that I don't believe there's a good will, a desire and that these changes happen, or other ones, or these will bring the right successes. The fact is that when we agree on the appropriate procedure and also reduce the appropriate funds that must be potential capital and stakes, then we have a question that says and who will guarantee the deadlines and amount of capital behind what the state is putting into stock, that is, into a strategic project. It's always some property that's very valuable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95827	Thank you, too. Next up for debate Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95828	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I won't be long, because I'm already in that debate that was a little in a hurry said in the name of the club, but what I left out and what I didn't say now I'm going to say in an individual debate. Namely, page 1 states that the implementation of the Strategic Investment Act so far, the strategic investment projects of the Republic of Croatia have shown some shortcomings. Perhaps by now the Deputy Minister has already explained that fact, although it is not exactly written here about what the shortcomings are. I wonder why and why this law is actually in that first sentence, this addition and amendment of that law that we passed some year ago, so again on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. Secondly, I remain in my view that the procedure that has been carried out since MINGO, so the Ministry of Economy, then from two AIG or CI agencies, then from the task force, so all of this has to go through and go back to the Ministry of Economy on deadlines here, which is 10 days after the Commission's decision that AIG or CI make their decision, that this filter, that the filter established, slows down any possible investment project. What is it that we have defined as a strategic investment project? The only definition is that it is a project that weighs 150m kunas or 20m euros. On the islands, we said it less, so 20 million kuna and that's all. So, just the project, or the money amount of the project, nothing else. Such projects were also implemented by the former government and then we see at a time, so when the former HDZ government was on, so the executive authority that we had some 4 billion, 5 billion dollars as counterpart Ostojic expresses it in dollars. And when we look at the kind of strategic investment, then we see that it's mostly malls, chains of department stores, etc. For one of these chains, i.e. for one of these goods houses, the Croatian state invested more than 100 million kunas of Croatian taxpayers' money for getting off the highway here near Zagreb. To make it work and to have access to that center. Another investor who was and has such a contract with the Republic of Croatia that if he does not have a profit, I am talking about one highway, unless he has a profit that has been drawn up and is scheduled for the Republic of Croatia to compensate for that loss or that deficit. If we are to declare such investments strategic, I am not happy and satisfied. Come on, God, I said and I repeat again, that there should be exactly such strategic investments that when they are realized, when they are realised, they will lead to new jobs that will therefore achieve a new value, and not to be financed through trade chains and the sales of goods that we import by both German workers and Italian workers and a number of others, and Swedish workers, etc. That's the problem. When we talk about the participation or the financial framework, or how they like to say the 10% package, so the financial framework is to represent the financial strength of a potential strategic investor 10% of the total value of the investment, that means 15 million kuna or 2 million euros, if it is at least 150, at least 2 million euros or 15 million kuna, then, as my colleague Holly says here, if I am afraid that the project is concerned that no matter how much it has been and was carried out in how far it does not stop with regard to the situation in our country and in society, in Europe even if it does not stop and then, as Coli Holly says, we have some sort of Srđ or how I already said before that hospital in Blato that hospital as it is called, it's a university hospital end that we're going through when we're going on the highway for Carlovac A1 highway or some other facilities that have stayed and stopped and today we see only reinforced pillars without roofs and nothing. There are such examples in Croatia as many as you want. But the University Hospital in Zagreb is the best example. I'm also afraid, and I wish that didn't happen, so that someone didn't misread me that I wanted anyone evil, that malfeasances would occur, that they would appear unpaid in the event of the prevention of further funding for any reason, to prevent the payment of the work done by our domestic performers or by any other party. And that, in fact, unfinished investment due to an unassembled financial framework is not yet a further incentive for inequitableness in the Republic of Croatia. So these are my concerns that I express in this individual debate. I hope it doesn't come to that, and it believes both the Deputy Minister and the Government, but time will show it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95829	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95830	Yes, you reminded me well, when was the last time and to what extent did we see concentration in the work of the Ministry of Economy on employment issues, employment numbers, number of employees and similar topics? So they think or in some way they're divided resolutions so the Ministry of Economy thinks that the economy would now be investments, and that jobs are that this is the problem of some other resolutions, that it's no longer the problem of economic resor. And that investments are parallel to jobs and possibly create in the structure the kind of jobs that would really be desirable for Croatian society. Which, of course, does not have to be coordinated in any way at all with each other, and this is what we saw in the first shelf of the past decade in which they were actually and when there were these investments in which they were structured, how they were financed and what their effects were ultimately on the Croatian economy and on Croatian society. And instead of today, the focus of the economy ministry is on jobs, focus and content, and even these amendments and additions to the law is actually on additional administration, on additional embodies, on additional stairs, on additional mechanisms, on additional agencies, and of course it will not actually lead anywhere together, as it has never brought so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95831	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95832	My colleague Djurovic says you're pulling my tongue. Namely, it's an honor to Mr. Leveric, who has been here with us all day, and not only today but also, but we were present when the minister was here for a full 6 minutes, in which he gave us parliamentary representatives the entire Industrial Development Strategy until 2025, I don't know what year, in the year 25/25 is in 2525. But good. But speaking of investments and strategic investments, here is my colleague Gjurkovic, and I have to quote him, "I don't know what the dollar, kuna, euro invested 90% of the money in tourism last year." That's what's said. That's what I heard. Now, our tourism is tourism for 3 months in which Slavons find themselves in the seasonal jobs of places and having to spend the winter, starting from their cabins until 1st of May, until Easter they must be in Slavonia, I guess they have to survive. As much as this is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, I am not convinced that the best investment or best example of strategic investment is exclusively, almost exclusively investment in tourism. It is worth it for the investor, for the investor but for Croatia, for the Croatian man very weak. Until there is an investment on the continent, until production investments are strategic, I am talking about production activities, did someone once say that tourism is additional activities, not basic, but additional activities, not even counted in the economy. But well, today we are almost expecting the outcome of a tourist season that has become cold in the sun. Whether it's 6.7 or 8 billion, it's a living and surviving thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95833	Time. Thank you. We don't have any more charges to discuss. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. I thank the Deputy Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95834	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 766. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. I would like to ask the representative of the reputable Allen Liveric Deputy Minister of Economy to show himself. Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives No 1 to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95835	All amendments to the Legislative Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95836	Thank you very much. This makes them an integral part of the final bill. Thank you very much. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95837	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95838	And that one. Thank you very much. This makes them an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes are 79 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 33 votes against a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia, an emergency procedure in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95839	We continue with: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on navigation and ports of internal waters, second reading, P.Z.E.BR.660. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. We have Deputy Minister Zdenko Antesic with us. Introductory Deputy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95840	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Navigation and Port of Internal Waters is primarily conditional on compliance with the new Law on concessions entered into force on 28 December 2012. In addition to those proposed amendments and the additions to a provision, a clearer and more detailed part relating to the crew, vessel documents, port and port classification is prescribed. It's the institute of an agent contract in shipping. The proposed law is in line with the Criminal Law and with Directive 2006/87 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 laying down technical rules for the navigation of inland navigation. A consultation was conducted with the public interested in the period from 30.12.2013 to 20.01.2014. In relation to the applicable Law on navigation and ports of internal waters, it is important to note that concession relations, as well as the protection of ports and waterways in terms of resources for the maintenance and development of inland navigation, had made it necessary to regulate the classification and division of ports and ports more clearly. The introduction of concession relations under the Law on concessions and the EU Directive governing concessions and provisions of the Water Act required full adaptation to the provisions of this proposal of law and of relations in ports and ports, in view of the type of concessions and current state of internal waters, and the purpose of protecting ports and waterways as a good thing of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia whose protection in terms of public interest is fully within the jurisdiction of this law. In fact, Croatia's legislation now knows three types of concessions in accordance with EU legislation. First, a concession contract for the economic use of general and other goods. Second, a concession contract for public works and a concession contract for public services. Therefore, it is necessary to adapt the applicable Law on navigation and ports of inland water from 2007 which knows the Institute of Authorisation which, by its legal nature, has the essential ingredients of the concession contract to the provisions of the Law on concessions, which also means adapting to the rules on public private partnership and public procurement. Therefore, Article 138 of subparagraph 10 provides for the development of ports and without State financing of infrastructure, in order to promote the model of public private partnership, except that port administrations know best the specific situation on the ground and participate in marketing promotional activities and promote the application of the public private partnership model. This encourages investment in the development of ports and ports by private entities and not primarily by the Republic of Croatia through budgetary financing. Article 117 of the Law defines public and private ports which play a clearly demarcated role. For private ports, concessions shall be granted on request and shall serve exclusively to carry out the port activity of the owner of the land in the port. While public ports are divided into ports of national importance and ports of county importance and all public ports are managed by port administrations, as prescribed in Article 119 of the Law. Furthermore, Article 143 of the Law provides that port activities in public ports and public ports may be carried out on the basis of concessions and concessions for public services, for the provision of port services, concessions for the economic use of the general and other goods referred to in Article 141 of the same Act and concessions for public works for the construction of port buildings according to the rules on public private partnership. The concession procedure itself is implemented according to the general rules on concessions and public procurement. The current model according to which the port administration granted its approvals with the previous consent of the competent ministry is adapted in a way that the port administration is now giving concessions, also with the ministry's previous consent. As regards legal protection in concession procedures, it is fully resolved by the concessions and procurement rules so that this draft law calls for the same rules. The time limits to which concessions may be granted are laid down in Article 144, taking into account other than the type of activity and the possibility of public private partnership, so concessions for public services, for the provision of port services, nautical services are given for up to 5 years and transport services for up to 15 years. Concessions for the economic use of general or other goods for other economic activities carried out in the port area shall be given for up to 25 years. Concessions for public works when the concession for the construction of port buildings according to the model of public private partnership, for up to 30 years with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia up to 50 years. The time limit for granting concessions for port services in private ports and private ports which are based on a concession for the economic use of general or other goods shall be determined according to the duration of the economic activity which is the basis for the award of concessions, up to 50 years at the most. The definition of concessions provided by the port public service administration for the provision of port services, then for the economic use of general or other goods in the port area and ultimately for public works for the construction of port buildings, according to the rules on public private partnership, creates a link between the terminology of the Law on concessions and this special law. Furthermore, explicit attribution to the port administrations of public property management powers owned by the Republic of Croatia, consisting of public ports, simplifies the port management process and the award of concessions, but further stresses that they do not exclude the application of the specific property management process owned by the Republic of Croatia in the event of estrangement or burden on such properties as is regulated in Article 131, paragraph 4 of the Law. Additional Articles 136a and 136b shall determine the payment of concession fees in public ports and public ports and in private ports and private ports. The concession fee for the provision of port services in public ports and public ports shall consist of a permanent and variable part while the concession fee for the economic use of general or other goods in the port area of private ports and private ports shall be paid as a permanent part of the same basis for the calculation of concession fees. Therefore, by harmonising with the Law on concessions, potential concessionaries open up greater opportunities for investment in port areas such as Luke Slavonski Brod and Sisak where there is a large port area and reserved space for the development of economic activities not specifically related to the use of river transport. The proposed amendments and additions represent a modern framework for future development of ports and ports... sailing. Also, important news is the introduction of a shipping agent contract, which defines Article 181a, 181b and 181c, modelling the maritime agency contract and maritime agents. It is an institution which is bound by a ship's agent on behalf and... to carry out assistance, representation and intervention and other ship's agency affairs while the authorising officer is obliged to compensate the ship's agent for the costs and to pay the prize. The issue of carrying out the activities of the port agent is explicitly distinguished from the concession regime, i.e. to carry out the port agent does not require concessions. It is a matter of activities which are suitable for other port activities and their quality of operation brings traffic to the port. The number of agent service providers does not need to be limited or carried out by a specific process of contracting the provision of activities but should only be recorded. In addition, these activities are carried out in part and outside the port area, and in general they are activities that do not in any way restrict the use of general goods or use public resources to carry out their own activities. The basis for the provision of agent services would be a simple entry into the list of providers of those services run and provided by the port administration? For the entry only basic conditions should be met, and the port administration shall then adopt a decision on the entry in the list. The port administration shall also have the right to delete an economic operator from the list, if he has an irregularly paid obligation to the port authority, irrespective of whether he pays on his own behalf or on behalf of the shipowner. It no longer fulfils the conditions, or for a long time... as prescribed in Article 144a. Finally, in the part of the infringements, too many minimum and maximum amounts of fines are reduced, thus allowing the conduct of an emergency infringement procedure against natural persons and for easier violations and against legal persons, which will ultimately contribute to greater efficiency and economicity of the proceedings without breach of the legal principle. The proposed solutions are fully in line with the infringement law, articles are nomotechnically improved, legal descriptions of the infringement are more precise and clearer and are consistent with the material provisions of the law. In addition to the interventions mentioned above in the Law on navigation and on the ports of internal waters, the proposed amendments and additions to certain provisions have been provided for in clearer and more detailed, i.e. their legal formulation and certain corrections of the errors observed as well as nomotechnical and linguistic coordination have been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95841	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95842	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. So as I pointed out by saying about this law at first reading, as the Deputy Minister also explained to us the reasons for these amendments and the addition of the Law on Inland Water Ports Act can actually be divided into two sets. The first set of reasons is to comply with the existing legislations of the Republic of Croatia and the EU. This applies to the Law on concessions entered into force on 28 December 2012, but these amendments and additions to the laws are in line with both the Criminal Law and the Directive already mentioned by the Deputy Member of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe in determining the technical rules for inland navigation since 12 December 2006. The second set of reasons for amending and supplementing this law is a clearer and more detailed regulation of certain provisions, in particular those relating to crews and documents of the vessel, the classification of ports and ports, and the introduction of an agency contract in shipping and the notion of a water facility. I would also refer to the newspaper proposed in these amendments and additions to the laws to be incorporated into the mentioned ones. In particular, the applicable Law on Inland Water Ports should be adapted to the provisions of the Law on concessions, as already mentioned, which also means adapting to the rules on public-private partnership and public procurement. The relevant law knows the Institute of Authorisation which, by its legal nature, has the essential elements of the concession contract. Thus far, Croatia's legislation has known three types of concessions in accordance with EU legislation, so this is a concession agreement for the economic use of general or other goods, a concession contract for public works and a concession contract for public services. The most important difference between the existing authorisation institutes and concessions is the fact that the approvals were generally issued on request and, exceptionally, through the invitation to tender while the concessions were given as a rule through the invitation to tender and, exceptionally, on request. This coordination opens up greater investment opportunities for potential concessionaries in the port area. I would especially point out that the great chances of opening ports are, say, Slavonski Brod and Sisak where there is a large port area, and there is a reserved space for the development of economic activities that are directly related to the use of river transport. Of course, these are not the only ports that can potentially open new chances in their development by this law, but perhaps two of the best examples. The proposed amendments and additions represent a modern legal framework for future development of ports and ports of internal navigation. The new legal concept introduced by these amendments and additions to the law is the introduction of the concept of a water object as the general and broadest name for all types of vessels and floating devices that exist in the internal navigation. Also within the framework of the concept, a water object is proposed to redefine the concept of a vessel and a floating object and introduce a new concept of a small floating object. These provisions shall also define the conditions to be met in order to be capable of a specific purpose at a specific location. One of the newspapers is also the Institute of Maritime Agency and Maritime Agents Agents. It is the Institute which undertakes the name of the authorising officer to carry out assistance, representation and intermediation tasks and other shipping agencies while the authorising officer is obliged to compensate the ship's agent for the costs and to pay the prize. The latest changes relate to new infringements. Namely, as the deputy minister has already mentioned, too much, the lowest and highest amounts of prescribed fines are being reduced. Accordingly, this logic also allows for the conduct of an emergency infringement procedure against natural persons as well as against legal persons in the case of easier infringements. It will eventually contribute to greater efficiency and economic efficiency of the procedure without breach of the legal principle. The proposed solutions are fully in line with the Infringement Act, and the articles are nomotechnically completed while the legal descriptions of the infringements are more precise and clearer and consistent with the material provisions of the law. Due to all the above mentioned SDP club, Croatia will support amendments and additions to the Law on navigation and ports of internal waters with the Final Proposal for Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95843	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95844	Thank you very much. You explained this law as well as Deputy Minister Mr. Antesic. But what's being asked as one question that's an uncertain answer, and I'll hear from you, you didn't comment on the fact that a public-private partnership like that was. and, for example, Zagreb Airport with which the airport has actually been completely and owned by the investor. Will it happen when you have already talked about Slavonski Brod and Sisko that this law opens up the possibility that this call concession leads to our ports which are also our wealth, generally, national, to say almost so, to the private hands and that, although those ports are not completed especially Luka Brod, in which the state has invested so far I think 300 to 400 million do not know exactly the kuna, that now the benefit of that Luke Brod after so many investments, and that they still need to invest 100, 200 million to end this port, belong to the benefit of private persons through a public-private partnership that personally did not give me a good impression of applying to other examples of public-private partnership mainly Zagreb Airport.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95845	Thank you. The answer of colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95846	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So a colleague that, as you have said, I, as a non-proposer, cannot provide answers to all the questions you have asked, but according to what can be read from this law or what the legislator's intention is, in fact, to those ports that have development space, and Luke in Brod is one of them means physical space, to enable entrepreneurs who would eventually be attached to the space and use of the port itself to make it clearer, that it will make their exploitation and exploitation easier for economic purposes, which are therefore related to the transport itself. As regards concessions as such, the concept of concession is to give a certain good private person or entrepreneur to take advantage of but with the aim of making more effective use of this good but it remains well owned by the Republic of Croatia. So that's something when we talk about concessions that should at least be in theory. And the benefit, you said it well, should all benefit. So, first of all, the local community but also Croatia as a whole, so Brod-Posavina County and the town of Slavonski Brod and Croatia, after all, also our Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95847	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95848	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I have signed up and very briefly since Mr. Deputy Minister and colleague Hajdukovic has elaborated more or less on what this proposal brings to us to amend and supplement the Law on Navigation. So as they have said, this is in fact a harmonisation with the Criminal Law, i.e. the European Parliament and the Council Directive of December 2006 laying down technical rules for inland navigation and the Law on concessions that entered into force on 28 December 2012 so almost 2.5 years ago. Well, that's an observation as to why these two laws were waiting so long to be harmonised. So as this law adopts some new concepts, it sets out some new units, some new provisions relating to the crew, to the navigation and classification of ports and ports, and introduces the Institute of Agents, so by binding on behalf of the authorising officer to carry out activities of assistance, representation, possession and all other matters while the authorising officer is obliged to reimburse the costs or to pay... Not to be too long, therefore, this law or amendments to this law have the intensity to create a better framework for future development of ports and ports of internal navigation and our club supports this in any case and we hope that it will also contribute to the prosperity of Croatian shipowners who unfortunately are not at an enviable level on the European market because we know that river traffic in the Republic of Croatia is therefore insignificant compared to that in the framework of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And one last thought, perhaps, should think about the arrangement of international waterways on the rivers so that they come to the intended categories. For example, for example, we have Sava and Drava as tributaries of the Danube, which is our strongest waterway, but if a ship from the Black Sea moves towards Croatia and has poor conditions for sailing through Romania, it will definitely not reach Croatia, therefore not even a port on the Sava. And here, we are a member of the European Union and through the institutions of the European Union, in any case, we should support the resolution of the arrangements of the navigation routes so that they are watery and at a time of low waterways. Once again, the HDZ club will support these amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95849	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95850	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Milas, I am pleased to hear that you will support this law, but in fact, what you said was a long time awaited by the adoption of the law. I'll remind you only this law goes into two readings, I pointed out that when I first read it, I think it's a good thing that the laws we're changing, so we're changing and supplementing can go through a public debate and a common procedure that MPs can expose both eventually and their doubts and suggestions on how to improve this proposal. Therefore, a consultation was conducted with an interested public which lasted from 30.12 to 20.1.2014. So we can say that the Ministry has already joined the amendments to the law in 2013, and you know the process yourself, so the professional public, so experts at the ministry, when they are already going to change and supplement the law because of compliance with other laws, are also looking to improve the law both nomotechnically and properly and in any other way that can be done. You are right when you say that our river traffic if we compare it with the European Union is meaningless and that is something that needs to be changed anyway. It's just, you mentioned the Danube, Drava and Sava, unfortunately the Drava, and there's not as much water potential as Sava and Danube, since the waterway is only part of it, but I believe that this law will also be a small contribution to trying our waterways as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95851	Thank you, too. Come in, my colleague Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95852	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Hajdukovic, here's what I'm glad we agree on, no matter what, of course, there are parts where our opinions differ. Well, of course, the expert public needs to give his opinion and remarks, and here I will point out that in this proposal, the amendments and additions to the law as well as any comments or suggestions or most of them that have been accepted. But we cannot escape the fact that in our first reading, for the first time, we discussed the amendments and additions to this law in May 2014. So it's been almost 2 years since the Law on concessions was passed, and I think it's a little too long for us to be able to approach amendments and additions or to comply with this law with the concession law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95853	Thank you, too. Next replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95854	Thank you very much. If you don't think that, I see that you are in favour, the HDSSB club will be restrained by this law, don't you think that the monetization of Croatian highways is actually somewhat analogous to this concessioning of the public-private partnership port on the internal waters so Dravi, Savi, Danube and even to the Uni and others, but very little, very little water potential. In fact, when you're looking at all of this, it's really like it's monetization of Croatian highways, so concessions in a piece, in order to say, cash amount, one monetary amount. This is one of the few laws that is passed in two readings, so it is truly commendable. Code E seems to me to be used only to cover up this particular monetization or concessioning of river ports. And that it will contribute to the airworthiness of our waterways will not. He won't invest a private investor with a concession, he'll hardly invest, for example. in the deepening trough of the Sava which is watery for the summer months only until the parish. I'm talking about the upstream effect, so from Belgrade to the parish. From the Parish away, the ship can't sail any. He managed to get a German ship into Slavonski Brod, it was a general joy, it was a surprise, and in Sisak, which was once the seat of the Danube Lloyd, and there is no more than those tows that have little gas, there is no more chance of coming. Once President Tudjman, rested his soul on today, said that ships would sail to Rugvica, to Rugvica here near Zagreb. Unfortunately, no one's said that since he said that. So I don't think this law, no matter what it bears the label E, is so good and that our ports and internal waters will suddenly become like those in the Netherlands or Germany, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95855	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95856	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, I don't think that this law is analogous to the monetization of Croatian highways and I don't think that generally this law is the best, but at the moment it's the best we have, and in front of us there's a time where we can improve it and do everything we can to make our inner navigation of the port and the port as well as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95857	Thank you, too. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for his cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95858	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Inland water navigation and ports, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 660, the debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like a representative of the motionary, respected Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Zdenko Antešić, to show about Amendment No. 1 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95859	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95860	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number two of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95861	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95862	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95863	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95864	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 106 votes in favour, 5 abstentions, 1 vote against, are passed by law P.Z.E. No. 660 in the text as proposed by the government, along with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95865	We continue with - Report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2013 The report is submitted by the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War on the basis of Article 9. Law on the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. You received the material by mail. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You've received reports. Mr. Ante Nazor is with us. Introducement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95866	Thank you. Appreciable parliamentary representatives and MPs. Here is the report on the work of the Centre for 2013 by post. It was placed on the website of our centre in a broader form where you can see exactly on the day of certain activities what the centre has been doing last year. A less or less report is similar to all reports so far. The dynamics of work we've established since the early years are respected. What I don't bother you with these numbers, not to bother you with what is already written, can only say that we share the fate of all the archives in the Republic of Croatia, that the material opportunities are harder than they were and that in the context of these material opportunities or difficulties we get along with and that we have no objection from that side. But what is different from the past years is that unfortunately with the change of the Governing Council we have been disabled in the work so far and dynamics as we have had when it comes to agreeing and making certain decisions. And I have to say as the director of the center that it bothers me that some of the members in their work so far have actually promoted some ideas and thesis that are not in line with the facts of the Homeland War, but this is a problem that I said to the Committee on War Veterans in the Parliament and I think it will be positively solved. And when it comes to the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, here I am obliged to refer to some of these opinions. First of all, I would like to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia in a positive opinion on the report on the work in the centre, and as regards certain remarks, thanks to them too, since the Centre really believes that the material that is digitized should be on the web site or present online. But I would warn when it comes to this material that most of the material that has been digitized, which, for objective reasons, cannot yet go into the online version. That part of the material that has already been published in public, thanks to the suggestion, we have already put it in and we have listened to the government's advice and opinion. In addition, I am obliged to explain from the archival profession that otherwise it is not directed to place online material that is not fully processed. Okay, some segments if they are in the public interest can be put in place, but there is one practice since it is material that is still being arranged because the process of handling is ongoing and will continue for at least a few years, given the size of the materials we have. It may take some wholes to wait, but I'm good at saying I understand that remark well-intentioned. However, what I cannot agree with, and I recognize in that the handwriting of the President of the Governing Council of our Centre, it is insisting that the centre be financed in a substantial way from international funds. We are not running away from it, we are not running away from the obligation to withdraw, but I will remind you that the centre of interest for the Republic of Croatia, that of five institutions in culture that are specifically marked and as such should not depend on international means, which I say does not mean that we do not want to participate and that we do not work on international cooperation. I'm just saying the question is that since it's a specialized archive, it's a problem that's not so interesting to most of Europe, that the cooperation we're accomplishing in certain fields related above all to museum activity, and with scientific and action from experience, I know it's a little harder to achieve. We have a visit to Warsaw next week, we will try to establish cooperation with the Museum of Warsaw, connect the Museum in Vukovar and Dubrovnik, because these are the cities of the victims in XX. For centuries and so on, so to expand that round of international activity. But I repeat, the centre cannot depend exclusively on international co-operation and that is what needs to be highlighted. Because with the resources that we have received so far and which are not great in relation to some other institutions we have done maximum, and in this reduced volume we have kept dynamics, we have managed both our publications and our works are of equal quality and in equal numbers. What I can't accept is that here's an observation that the centre should travel less, less promote facts about the Homeland War, because it's right in the Law on the Work of the Centre. And year after year our activities are getting bigger and bigger for one simple reason why they call us more and more high schools and more and more are calling us individual municipalities, cities, settlements with the desire to promote our publications and give them a lecture on the Homeland War. Only last year we had 109 active performances whether it was about exhibitions, whether it was about promotions, stands or professional gatherings in the organization or co-organization of the centre or simply that the employees of the centre participated in these stands or in professional and scientific meetings. The establishment of Vukovar Memorial Center of Homeland War is not the reason for the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War to stop doing so. On the contrary, the Vukovar Memorial centre is designed as an educational museum institution and will actually draw data from it by scientific institutions such as our centre, such as the Croatian Institute of History or the Institute of Social Sciences Ivo Pilar. Therefore, this remark cannot stand here. It's just that here's the center just now and it's come to life, it hasn't actually started working properly yet, because there's no conflict in the activity between our center and the Vukovar Memorial center. I'd like to thank the Ministry and the Government for returning more than a year and a half of its status to our center, which was taken about 17 months ago. The centre is also symbolically confirming that the Homeland War, based on the modern Republic of Croatia, is our work, has helped a great deal and has helped defend Croatian generals in The Hague as well as prepare a Croatian legal team for the process that was conducted before the International Court of Justice in The Hague in March this year. Given what is presented there, I think there will be a lot more work to do and that this centre will still have to continue its activity, first of all I say for the simple reason that the material from the Homeland War has not been arranged to the greatest extent yet. I find it difficult to assess what time period it will take, but one sure 5, 10 years at least to sort out this material in a scientific way and then make it really accessible to everyone interested in the period of the Homeland War. I wouldn't have further owed the introduction. I would be happy to answer if there will be any questions or concerns about the work of our center. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95867	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of independent representatives Grubisic, Cain. They're gone. They're losing their right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ club Zvonko Milas, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95868	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Nazor, colleagues and colleagues. The fact is therefore, which should be repeated from time to time that the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War was founded by the decision of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War as a public scientific institution specialized in the archive of interest for the Republic of Croatia and that it is on the list of institutions of special state interest. The public recognized it as professional and objective, and their work was justified and based on facts, and therefore, as the director himself said, it was confirmed through the acquittal of Croatian generals Gotovina and Markac. Because the data that the centre had provided in its publications until then was consistent with that verdict. And that is how it is supported by the fact that until now every government has supported the report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, and that everyone, including everyone in this House, has praised and applied positively to what the centre has done over the past years through various activities and publishing activities. It is known that the center deals with collecting, fixing, guarding, professional and health research, publishing materials from the Homeland War. And indeed, the immeasurable value of handling that documentation is to be made available in one place. How important this was mentioned in the introduction, stating that the acquittals were exactly in line with all that the centre had been saying and expressing through its publications until then, and I will only mention documents and data that spoke about the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina for which it was and for which so many controversys were involved. When we look at the documents and actually look at chronology, it's very easy to find out what would have happened to Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first place if it hadn't been for Croatia. I'm just going to give you a few examples. Since the vote of the Croats, so for a referendum on Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence in '92. which was crucial for independence, until the recognition of Bosnia and Herzegovina as an independent state, and to defend and free the area around Bihac, where otherwise, if there were no help, there could have been another Srebrenica, etc. etc. So the centre's activities were not only purely historical but were very current through the events, processes and are still in view of the trial of six commanders from Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why I don't understand how it is without an explanation, and without notice, it can happen that the center is degraded, that its status is taken away and that it goes to even two lower levels. It's really incomprehensible, but here's how we hear it, how we managed to find out because no one informed us, after 18 months, the center was restored to its status as it had. And why did that happen? Regardless of the values and all these positive indications that I was talking about, so all governments, or all of them, are calling the Parliament together, I guess those who did. That the center and its work are not responding may be telling everyone that the administrative council of the center has changed. I repeat, despite the fact that the Government and the Parliament have made unanimously unanimity-positive assessments of the work of the centre itself and of the council. And we are reminded of the proposal to amend the council members, but this did not prevent the proposal from getting the green light of the ruling majority. Why and why does it seem? Why do people who have done good and good quality work change extremely important to the Republic of Croatia? Is the answer that we then received from the promoter that this is done for the refreshment, underestimation of the committee or underestimation of the activity itself or the centre as a whole? If the importance of the centre is not as it should be, it can also be made clear from the remarks made by the Government, or the Ministry of Culture to be more precise, that the centre must have other means for its work than the funds from the budget. Well, we can agree with that, but in a way that helps him hire an expert who will help and explain how funds can be withdrawn from European funds, at least in this government as she claims we have super professionals. But given the importance of the centre, the materials that are being arranged and stored in the centre it cannot depend, so its funding cannot depend on international funds but must have what we have all heard about so far is not the continuity of the funding and it cannot be questionable. That this goes in the direction in which I speak and the information that the Administrative Council has proposed to hire external consultants who will come up with a strategy of the centre and that money should be provided for. So as I said in the introduction, the centre has its own task, defined by the Law on the Work of the Centre, and its entire long-term work shows what its strategy is and that these proposals are really questionable and that the one who proposes them is not actually aware or aware of the work of the Centre, and certainly does not know the problem of the Homeland War. The choice of individual members shows that, given the activity of the centre, so to arrange and preserve the home war building used in the Hague processes, the applicant shows complete disinterest, and he is not even aware of certain security problems and restrictions in these processes that are very important to the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the Parliamentary Committee on War Veterans recently made a decision at its session, unanimously stressing, and directed the Ministry of Culture to review the decision to appoint certain members of the council, to withdraw it and to appoint another member, or to appoint other two members, by sticking to the criteria of expertise, to understand the activities the centre deals with as well as knowledge of the issues of the Homeland War. The report itself is clearly reasoned, no matter what the difficulties stated by the director and which I tried briefly to present that the centre is trying to meet its obligations under the law. So we can see that in 2013 he published 6 books, that 5 books were prepared for printing or were prepared for printing at the end, professional scientific journals, monographs, professional presses were published. The centre was an organizer or co-organizer of 4 exhibits and two are in preparation. And what joy is that the centre invests in professional training of its staff so that we can see how 4 doctors of science had at the end of 2013. And I'm particularly glad that we know that the business revenues for 2013 are less than the revenues for 2012, we're not talking about 2011. I hope that in order to support the work of the centre, we will consider everything the director has given us, that the centre will provide an even stronger approach and that we will enable it to finance in continuity, so without having to think about any international means again in line with the possibilities but not obstruction, and that we will show that the Croatian Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War and also the Homeland War and the truth about it is truly the foundation of the free state. So let's not deny him the means but help him to make this most important and most bright part of our history, which is what the center deals with, better presented through facts and arguments, so simply through the truth. We support and support everything the director has said and we advocate that the centre gets even stronger resources in its further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95869	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have a replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95870	Thank you very much. I support your debate, but I must rephrase in the sense that here you are and ask whether you are not having a change in the board of directors, two members, is it not a proposal for international financial assistance for the work of this center to call for external consultants in the centre in fact in one hand proof that it is working on a permanent basis to say the annulment of the facts that have arisen and resulting from the Homeland War and the work of this documentation centre? Isn't that proof that the Homeland War Declaration is marginalized? Isn't that the fact that there is more and more talk about armed conflict and the authorities to say some government officials and even civil war, and not how we talk about the Homeland War, and here in this report we are talking about the Croatian Homeland War as Mr. Nazor calls it, so the Croatian Homeland War, and we very often say the Homeland War ourselves. Some don't say that either, they say armed conflict. So it seems to me that this is a coordinated action, all together with these measures that I have just said are actually one coordinated action to marginalise the Croatian Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95871	Replication response, distinguished representative Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95872	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Grubishi will present all of what you've led through all of what I've presented in my presentation, and that's exactly what you've said. I will look honestly at this last thing you said, and I honestly do not say that it is always about the Croatian Homeland War is I think that when the Homeland War is said in itself, at least to me, which Croatia is the only country that is clear that it is Croatia. I don't want to believe that there are, I don't know what to call it, which noun I would use, power or someone who would want to devalue all the values that the Homeland War has given, so all of that, in the end, we're one of those values, so this home. I just want to believe there's someone who wants to humiliate it, I don't know how to insult it. And the fact is, let's say we have some kind of civil society association, let's say I'm going to be a particular one of the documents that is generously funded by the Republic of Croatia as far as we hear over 5 million kunas. So it's about a malt not half the funds that get all the associations from the Homeland War all year round. So, once again, I don't want to believe and I can't just as easily as the defenders, and I believe like everyone else I can't imagine working to make the Homeland War hurt, that he simply erases himself from memory, from Croatia is he really the cornerstone of the modern Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95873	Thank you, too. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the HDSSB club and the respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95874	Here is Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Nazor, MPs and representatives of fellow Members Milas has made quite precise and systematic views about the Croatian Memorial documentation centre of the Homeland War and the order of events. There is no need for me to actually repeat myself because in this work and in that work that he presented we share fully the value courts around the role of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre and the events that were happening around it. To be honest, I have to share my own wonders as to why the problems were happening in the first place. I think that, and we've all agreed in previous years, and now we agree that it's one institution that actually does a good job of collecting documentation on the Homeland War, that the Homeland War is worth, that it's a good thing to do it systematically, that the facts are being documented, and that, in fact, that the Republic of Croatia that was forming as a country right at the time of that war is that, in fact, for generations that are coming, there remain entirely complex quality historical facts, testimonials, records and similar times when the Republic was growing. I think that position, and that position, accepts all political forces in the Republic of Croatia. No one has disputed the quality and manner of doing the institution itself so far, and to be honest, I didn't really understand why it was even coming and why there were certain problems with the functioning of the facility. Because we saw when it came to the removal of members of the board of directors and the selection of new ones, as counterpart Milas said, we did not agree that the people who were on the Committee on War Veterans, we did not agree that people who did not have certain quality references and were suggested to replace those who had, did we not consider that the necessary replacement of members of the Governing Council had to coordinate with some shifts in the political life of the Republic of Croatia, since neither the work of the centre itself as an institution was either politicised nor had been party colored. Therefore, we believed that even then and today that the administrative council of these institutions should simply come to people who, by their references and their life results, will answer that they can help those who work the facility, and run the facility, and work in it to do their job in the best possible way. Some time later what we knew then and we knew and then we actually culminated on the board a few months later through the problems that had arisen in the work and in fact I guess they weren't in the interest of anyone and they weren't really supposed to happen at all and there was actually a situation that I think was in the first place damaging today to the ruling and the Ministry of Culture because they forced some people who didn't have references. Well, they had references that should disqualify them, not qualify for the administrative council of one of these institutions. But I think it can actually be fixed. To be honest, I thought that some of the current members of the board of directors other than these two who are on the Veterans Committee should also not be in the board of directors, but have not been found among these two who have been proposed to be replaced. I still believe at least for one of them that you shouldn't also be a member of the board. That Croatia has enough quality academics, historians, people with major academic and scientific references and that it might be better for the future work of the centre to select a whole new administrative council, not to change two again, and some of whom we believe in the HDSSB club that they are also not the happiest choice remain, but well. Generally speaking, I think that the topic of the Homeland War today is a certain number of years after it's finished shouldn't actually be a polygon of some kind of political understanding of the so-called. Lefts and so on. Rights and through the Declaration of the Homeland War and through the actual total work of the Croatian Parliament, I believe that today is more or less a common denominator of the fact that it is our common Croatian gain, therefore, I don't see why it would be a space of any special confrontation with anyone and I think that if we were to be a little tolerance, we could actually find excellent people, which will not belong to either of them in any way to any political option, but really in no way at all. So, both of those 6 and of these 6 can be new 6, there can be another 56 that won't be really connected to anyone in any way, and we have really, at least when it comes to that part, a large number of very high-quality people. The budget of that institution is small, he thinks 3 million kuna, if I'm not mistaken, so 3 million kuna, here we heard that... annual spending 5 from the state budget, so small budget, funds are intended, work and quality of work and production is the scientific very high and national and historical value of the centre is exceptional, therefore I really think that there should be no reason for any more significant disputes on either side. In any case, the HDSSB Representatives Club supports this report, as well as the centre's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95875	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, we have one replica. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95876	Thank you very much. My colleague Đurović, I apologize, President, I hurried, I know that my colleague Nazor is in a hurry I know my colleague Nazor's in a hurry, so I hurried with a replica. [[President: That's what I do, a respected colleague, does a phonogram, and I have to point out, and I respect every MP, so I tell him, Mr. Representative, go ahead.]] So, co-worker Djurovic, you really said the way the centre works, completely independent of any political option or influence of politics, works fully scientificly to investigate the Homeland War. The best of all is this report, which is written on page 6 of the archive material, here, and it says that in 2013 the number of arranged funds and collections was increased so that by the end of 2013, the archived funds and collections were singled out. There are 65 of them, and they all refer to the area of the so-called area. Republika Srpska Krajina and parts of JNA that worked in these areas. So, all the way to one. Thus, here it shows and proves that it is realistically and objectively trying to show the situation at the time of the Croatian Homeland War, the best evidence shows that is exactly what is being done by the archive material. Now we've also learned how many people were killed and in that area, as far as we're concerned and what we're looking for, we finally got the information I didn't know about personally, for example. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95877	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, honourable representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95878	Yes, I forgot to mention, we have an example from a little further away from Croatian history of some wars how much trouble can actually bring in an unfettered page of history and how many truths and structures that will continue to slip through for decades can actually bring about this when no one actually qualified, scientifically and objectively analyzed a period of history, really studied it, but it seemed as it seemed. It is also because of the Croatian future that the work of this centre is extremely important that... the scientific, systematic and objective way throughout this period of the Homeland War is resolved so that in decades to come and in times to change, some new generations reopen this same story, come out with different data, with different positions and the like, at least when it comes to Croatian citizens and those living in the area of the Republic of Croatia. And I also hope through these lectures that are conducted in schools that the time is coming and I hope that the time will come in the very near future and that all Croatian children, wherever they live, learn Croatian history. I hope that in the beginning of the 21st century, and with the help of the centre and the definition of historical truths from the Homeland War, there will come a time where all Croatian children will no matter where they live and what nationality they teach modern Croatian history from 90 to today from exactly the same sources and the same way. I hope that time is coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95879	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The SDP Club of Croatia is next in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Dubravko Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95880	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Director, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would, here before I say a few words about this report which has been presented to us again and agreed with my predecessor, Djurovic, that I am sure that no political force in this House disputes the values of the Homeland War, that it does not dispute the foundations of Croatian statehood that occurred in that period, and that by discussing the report of the centre and its work in 2013 we must now concentrate on these 60 pages of the text delivered, but not only on those 60 pages, but on the whole period since 2004 and 2005, respectively, when the centre began to work until today. It is also worth repeating another fact that my colleague Milos initially stressed, and quoting in 2004 the law that this Croatian Parliament passed in December, which is also a center that states and defines the very activities of the centre of collection, collection, preservation, protection, and professional and scientific research of documentation related to the Homeland War, research of the truth about the Homeland War and knowledge of the public in the country and the world with established facts. And I think that's the key to finding out the truth about the Homeland War, and that's what the center has been doing for many years. I would not go back here on and not discuss the administrative council, the appointment, the members of the board of directors about the scientific achievements of certain members, but really what the centre has done in this period, and that is actually the greatest value of its work. These 18 workers who ended in 2013 4 seem to me to be a doctor of science and 7 of them in doctoral studies and contemporary Croatian history are proof that this centre is doing exactly what the founder of the law has established. However, it is important to stress that in its work, scientific work it benefits and applies modern scientific methods that process archival construction. It's also important here to mention that duality of the center. On the one hand, it is an archival site that collects and processes construction, and on the other hand it is also a scientific institution of public science that additionally processes and presents to the Croatian public through books, exhibitions, monographs, participation in professional gatherings and in all other ways in which it can and must speak about the truth about the Homeland War. I would really stick here to what the centre is doing, and this is a valuable and valuable publishing activity that takes place in several editions and those 60 books of publications published are the foundation of every other research which will also be used by Croatian scientists in the future, but not only by Croatian scientists but also by international scientists for their future scientific papers. I don't know how many citizens have had the opportunity to see and hold in the hands of these editions, which are particularly this edition of the Republic of Serbia in the Homeland War documents that are truly extensive editions, full of documents, the colleague has already highlighted from Republika Srpska from their archives, as well as documents that shed light on our recent history and, like those data on the number of people killed in Republika Srpska, so called in the area of the Republic of Serbia, these are all too valuable and important scientific data that will serve someone in the future, and we can today serve in the adoption of certain courts and conclusions. What may come out of the context of scientific research or scientific publication, which is one edition that includes the memory prose which, in this entire historical display, brings additional subjectivity, additional sensitivity that all of us who read these publications are actually experiencing this moment and these moments of the Homeland War and in these books can feel human scream and cry, and perhaps this is actually a good path that the centre has set out to also show the values of the Homeland War, or this time of history in Croatian history, as well as, of course, photography that is always said to speak a thousand words in a picturesque way to memorize but also revive this period of Croatian history. So it is already mentioned in the replica how many books are published, how many different unconventional buildings are stored in the center itself or in Kerestinec. And there's no point in repeating them here, although perhaps you should read from that report a whole two or three pages indicating how many buildings have been collected and processed. However, what is particularly valuable today is digitisation and construction, and the director looked slightly at the government’s remarks in the report. I must admit that I did not find on the centre pages either in pdf or in any way presented that digitalized structure, but in any case it should be kept in mind that there is a difference between the raw archival structure which is really hard to publish and let me say so in the interior and from that building that is already published in archives, libraries, on the shelves of individuals who bought these books and in any case it is worth putting into digitalised form on the network or that all those who not only in Croatia want to study these buildings further have opportunities to do so from their homes or from their scientific research institutions. Of course, it is very important that this structure is placed to a greater extent on, made available in a digitised form, because this information that during the year has digitized 16.5 terabytes over the years, digitalized 16.5 terabytes of different buildings, we must bear in mind that there are both audio records and maps and different television content, video and that this is the building that deserves to be looked at and studied by the general public in any case, and that is why I actually consider the government’s observation to be well-intentioned and there is no reason to feel affected if this remark is expressed because it is expressed in the interest of the Croatian public and Croatian citizens. I point out once again that there is no room for divisions on this report because I think we are all here but also in the Republic of Croatia unique in the evaluation of the Homeland War and in accepting the values that have grown from the Homeland War and on which our modern Republic of Croatia has formed. And even in the end, I would just point out that the SDP club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95881	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have one replica. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95882	Thank you very much, colleague Bilic Dubravko. I'm glad that we agree, in fact, that there is no politics in the evaluation of this report, but what I was going to say is, what you have stated is so lengthy that it is not only about the structure, so which is arranged here but also about the lectures, the stands, there are 109 as Mr. Nazor said, I would like it to contribute not only to general understanding but also to the world being and content of the Homeland War, but also to those who write textbooks in Croatia, textbooks of history so that it doesn't happen as in one edition of the Profile for the 8th grade of elementary school according to... for Vukovar and Slavonski Brod where it says that it is this literally: "War on these premises..." does not say Homeland War "...became because of the increased dismissal and dismissal of Serbs from work in the Republic of Croatia and the appearance of radical Chetnik groups in Serbia.". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a text that says in the history textbook for the 8th grade for our children in the profile edition, I can tell you who the author is but Mr. Nazor knows it. ... Mrs. Snowy Root. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95883	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Dubravko Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95884	Here's a respected colleague, I also said in the debate that we should actually repeat and read that part of the report that talks about the activities of the center. And indeed, the centre held a multitude of stands, participated in the work of many scientific, professional meetings, its employees, the staff of the centre, so the PhDs and doctors of science also participated in their work in different chambers and these are too valuable contributions to contemporary Croatian history. If this publishing center could be even bigger and stronger, and I hope there will be enough financial resources to strengthen this activity, of course we should not repeat any gaffs or in publishing activities of others who, in some way, treat our contemporary history that we are still more or less all witnesses and we cannot be so easily deceived to say in various malicious or less malicious sentences.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95885	Thank you very much. And the Croatian People's Party club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95886	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Ante Nazor, director of the Documentation Center, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the presentation in front of the Croatian People's Party club, I would say that we are pleased that the initiative we launched on one of these reports that established a memorial centre in the city of Vukovar that we believe that in synergy with a documentary centre will certainly give one more quality, one nicer, better picture and above all objective, true because only objectivity and truth will win the Homeland War at the right value. What is important at the beginning to say that this time the material that has been prepared from the Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War is at a very high level that gives one certainty to workers with the director Mr. Nazor to them in total 18 of their entrusted work and their public role are being done at a very high level. What colleagues said in their discussions, I agree with most of it. But in the part where they mentioned NGOs, I don't think we should bring this time into line with the NGO and a public institution established by the Croatian Parliament, which was supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and which is doing a very responsible and conscientious job. About the fact that NGOs can do their jobs, I appreciate their efforts and work, but if the National War Documentation Centre can't answer with arguments, then that's the question. And I don't think at any time here I doubt the credibility, the quality and regularity of the work of the Documentation Centre and what NGOs are going to do is their business. What is important to say is that the centre started with its work on March 2, 2005 and that the centre organises round tables, public stands, publishes publications whose employees travel thousands of miles annually to bring the truth closer to the bloodiest conflict since World War II, must be recognised by all of us in Croatia as capital investment in illustrating truth and the past and improving the common life and future of all of us. I think that in this sentence the whole essence and the whole core of the existence of the Documentation Centre is, so the Documentation Centre has a role to play all the time and basically to be a promoter, an active promoter who is responsible for the event in not so far away history. What is most important in the work, that the centre in its training of its staff progresses every year and that this year we have seven PhDs who will do scientific work on what has been checked. Well, I'm not doubting here for a moment, no matter what the Administrative Council, the Administrative Council cannot order any scientist with a doctor's title in any way to study and explore. Here we as a club have always supported that the centre with all its activities in collecting, sorting, and in particular in the presentation of the results achieved will be of maximum responsibility and in a maximum quality way, based on the argument it can present to the public and this is the best legitimacy that this institution has its value, it has its future. The way the documentation centre worked in 2013 is best spoken by this very extensive, long material that says that there are 18 employees not for a certain time, that they have published 6 books and two monographs. Here I will especially mention one photo..., it is a student lens in the Homeland War, it is from one prominent photographer and photographer Marko Perić from Djakov, who has recorded it with his lens from the beginning of the creation of the Croatian state to the peaceful reintegration of eastern Slavonia and the city of Vukovar, and it is in one good way and very valuable photographs there. So we're proud of our Mark. The fact that the documentation centre has collected excellent construction this year, very extensive, of video, positive, role negatives, maps, text and everything else that we think is more than good. Mostly with regard to the work and support of the HNS documentation centre, we fully support and always seek maximum responsibility, maximum scientific approach and based on facts, without any interference from anyone, any policy or any subjective feeling. So far, the documentation centre has been doing it one way. As for the very use of euro funds, I believe that we should not be limited and think that with some of the projects that we would ask the European Union for, because we are a full member and the European Union is our second country after Croatia, that I do not know about digitisation, equipment or that we are looking for new ways for such projects from the European Union. Here I don't think we should ask the European Union for research, which is primarily the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia, the Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but in terms of equipment and presentation, I think there's plenty of space here. What we said last year, I would point out again as one light motive or which must be fully present, if it wasn't enough to show only the Homeland War, we must always see what was before the Homeland War, meaning the historical environment, the situation in the environment and the influence of the external forces that led to this one of the bloodiest conflicts. That's why I think it's always good to have access like that. And now one topic might not be directly related to the documentation center, actually two topics. The first topic is the issue of a large number of Croatian defence victims on all battlefields, from eastern to southern battlefield and here with Koran, Sava, that we have a large number of unknown, dead defenders. We had the opportunity and Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament during an official visit to one of the states, we had a monument to an unknown hero, an unknown hero. And I think that 20 years or 23 years have passed since the beginning of the war 23 years since the peaceful reintegration of 1998, and that the initiative to place a monument in one place to the Croatian unknown or hero or hero, and that all the parents, all the citizens, all foreign delegations are taking garneries here because the foundations of the Croatian state are certainly in the Homeland War and countless numbers of these young Croatian citizens, regardless of the nationality they have given life in the foundations of the Republic of Croatia. I would ask that the documentation centre on this initiative be taken into account because, by example, other democratic states that were created after such war events and that they created their country by acquittal. Also, on the proposal of one of the dead defenders' mothers, one initiative, that through a documentary centre, along with the Ministry of Defence, with the precise criteria, that local radio stations should mention the names of those citizens from those small areas on the day they were killed. Such an investment is not great, let's say that when they read in the morning they were born today, you and you were killed. For these environments and for parents, it would certainly be a great memory and great thanks to the Croatian state, Croatian citizens in such a way. As far as the acceptance itself is concerned, we will accept, and for the end I would say that everything that has been processed must be available to all interested in the Republic of Croatia. The documentation centre has a discretionary right for that part of the building that is not done enough, which is not sufficiently processed, so that it is not published. Everything else that's been investigated and that's over, I think it's a duty to put it on the website of the documentation center because Homeland War wasn't no secret, Homeland War is a fair war, a defence war, and I think that the data on it must be made available to the public. We will support this report and welcome the work of the Documentation Center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95887	Thank you very much. One replica, a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95888	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, buddy, a few things in your debate have moved me to a replica. You were saying the Memorial Documentation Center has the task of promoting the values of the Homeland War, I would add, not only the Memorial Documentation Centre, but all of us politicians, public figures, the public as such, so those who are public figures, but above all science, and here we are talking about science. I am pleased that you have also pointed out that the Homeland War is a universal value that we all share here, which is that the Croatian Parliament has proved with the declaration of the Homeland War. But in my opinion, which is my personal opinion, the main activity of the Memorial Documentation Center should be the one they work most on. It's just the fact that there is, so the Documentary Memory Center is saying a lot, and I'm going to tell you why, exactly what I mean. Namely, when you look at the Croatian State Archives and the historical structure that is there,... you can see boxes and boxes of archival building that are almost nothing. It is known from what period, such as the 19th century, 1848, 1849, is rare even after years, some decades, even centuries. So, there's a lot of things that haven't been processed archivistly, and that's why I'm glad and I am very pleased to prove that the Republic cares about the Homeland War as a historical period, just the fact that it exists. Because if we don't appreciate our own history, no one else will appreciate it. Therefore, the emphasis on me should certainly be on archival activity and I agree with you absolutely that the Memorial center belongs to Vukovar, that it belongs there. Sam Vukovar is one great monument to the Homeland War, on every trail are the wounds of the Homeland War and on every trace is the history of the Homeland War, in every street and on every...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95889	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95890	Thank you very much, colleague Hajdukovic. Well, I would say that every spoken word, especially in the Croatian Parliament, has its own weight, perhaps the same weight as the hard work of the Documentation Centre. That is why it is the responsibility of all of us when we talk about the Homeland War, about the Croatian Defence Homeland War, we must be careful because here one word can do more harm than any diversion of anyone. And what I would say as a citizen, as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, is that the saddest thing is that when we talk about Homeland War, every word is true and that we see the enemy in every word or that someone doesn't admit something, that someone doesn't support something. So the Homeland War declaration said, where all parties supported, the report of the Documentation Center, we are here now, this is the third report, that I believe no vote will be against it. So that's where we agree, but then when we go to the weigh of the word whether the decimal was before, after, whether it was Croatian Homeland or only Homeland, I say Homeland War, so according to mine, maybe I'm wrong, it implies that it's the Homeland War in '91. - '95. No, I need it now, so it may be, but I say, the Homeland War in all this, I don't mind Croatian, but if you don't say you're not an opponent, you don't admit it all. But I'm saying, the spoken word, especially all of us here in the Parliament, no matter how few of us there are, is quite a bit of a bond. Therefore, I say that responsibility must first be upon us and upon those who utter a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95891	Thank you too, dear colleague. And final word, Honored Doctor Ante Nazor, Director of the Croatian Documentation Centre. The Memorial documentation center.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95892	Appreciable MPs and MPs, first of all, thank you for supporting the work center. I'll try here as soon as possible because we have one promotion today, but of course it's more important to be in the Parliament and defend the report than it is to be there, there will be more time for promotions. First of all, Mr. Bilic, thank you for your support and, of course, that I understand the well-intentioned suggestions of the government regarding the digitization of the material, but I repeat, of these vast amounts of material that has been digitized, I will not go into detail here, two-thirds of it we still can't put online. And I want to stress very clearly, all the material that is in the center of the Homeland War is available, so whoever is interested, whoever is on the project or is personally connected, perhaps family with some injuries, can come to the center, we'll give it in conventional form, we'll give it an insight, but some things still just can't because of certain procedures go out. What is related to these remarks, I wanted to point out that they were written by the same one who has a problem with the work of the center, about promotions and travel of the center of the Homeland War. We can't understand history if we're not in the field. From the weather, geographical conditions come to..., come to Dinara, to Velebit, then you will understand what these guys have given for this Croatia, in which conditions they defended it independently of grenades, released bullets, should only be seen in what conditions they were in, which is what the configuration is. What does logistics mean, what did that boy take to be there? When we get to the field, when it's anniversary or when there's some gatherings, then we hear the story firsthand. This is the memory material that you mentioned, we just recently printed and published the book "Masslenica – the Memory of Participants", believe me that we didn't talk to these people, we wouldn't understand that second dimension of Operation Maslenica, we're always talking about the first 5 days, 22-27, but in stories with participants they'll tell you just like this for the first 5 days, but everything that came after that, it was terrible. The battle for Novigrad, the battle for Kasic, on Velebit, which these boys passed in those few months after it was officially... part of the Maslenica operation ended, until now neither in the textbooks nor in the books we could read, here are their first-hand statements, from pedestrians to the rank of strategic command, from tankers, sanity, nurses, so all those who were participants of it and that is simply an amazing story that people lived through. That can't be said by any document, it must be the testimony of the participants. Of course, that too has a methodology to respect. Mistakes exist and we have had our mistakes and some mistakes in our books, fortunately we have seen them and are ready to correct them. No wonder it's a modern period, a recent history, the material is not yet complete, which is often taken over from a hospital in Vukovar, and then when we go to compare after some time when we get another material, we see that something doesn't match, but it's important to see it and to correct it. No one, here I will just look back on Mr Grubisic's statement, I am also speaking Homeland War, without Croatian because it is understood. Some speak Croatian, it doesn't matter. So in the declaration there's a Homeland War, we know it's in Croatia, I don't think that's a bigger problem. As far as international cooperation is concerned, we are the only ones who have immediately reached out to the Australian-Croatian clubs and have told us about some things a concrete list of the victims we are still working on and who we are updating. What's absurd is we have more precise data for victims in occupied areas because we have documents directly and based on them we're working on a database, and there's a bigger problem with victims in the Republic of Croatia, especially with civilian victims. The defenders are largely solved, but the problem of civilian victims is because there is one major problem in Croatia and that many civilian victims have been transferred to defenders for various benefits, and now the problem is because of the character of war to determine exactly how many civilians are, how many exactly are defenders. When we talk about... BiH, which was spoken by the esteemed representative Milas, is a long story and the necessary scientific analysis is undeniable, but this year we managed to get, buy 2.5 thousand war photos from central Bosnia and trust me when they look at these photos and when compared to what is said in the media in Croatia, then the picture of it is very different. The photograph, you said, speaks more than 1,000 words, and unfortunately we don't know about many things until we get to the field and we hear the story of the Croats who were there in the environment and who were already in '93. years faced with what the world faces today when we talk about some extremes. I want to stress our co-operation with the Bosniak, Muslim institutions from BiH on the collection of data on victims and believe me in a month, the two of us will issue a book that will deeply shake this area because it is a single space that has been completely neglected, and it is a major crime committed by Serbian extremists, and here I would like to emphasise that when we do and when we teach, especially children in high school, we always distinguish a large Serbian policy from the people, we always do that difference, and that is exactly the concept of a great Serb aggression we took to distinguish one people from the policies that led it in the 1990s, in fact, these great Serbian policies that are responsible for the war on these premises and, of course, those extremists who have stood by that policy. As far as I'm concerned, I didn't make a lot of noise about the degradation of our center, even though I was personally affected because I didn't want the matter to be politicized, this is really an out-of-the-way facility, this is a scientific institution, and it has nothing to do with any of the parties. However, the fact is that someone and I keep saying it, I have reason to be bitter, that someone who has had an impact on the Ministry of Culture or at the Ministry of Culture has been working from the very beginning to first move the centre into the third category, and then the unfortunate change of the Governing Council has just left its consequences. What bothers me for professional reasons is that at the head of the board a person who is from the environment.... This is not a problem of action, that we understand each other immediately, of NGOs, I support them, this is about a group of people with whom our center led the conflict in the time of the rulings of first-degree, second-degree generals of Gotovina. I am not angry here because they are an NGO, but because they shot data in the media space in Croatia that simply doesn't match the facts. And after the second-degree verdict was given to the right documents, and not to those leaders, someone was so much, I don't know how to put it, to put the President of the Governing Council in the area. It's not enough either, because I'm a scientist, not only a symbolic level problem, but when I read the works of that young gentleman from 2004, 2005, then I felt like I was in a court of law in HAAG when I listened to the exposure of the Serbian legal team that tried to convince the UNJAG that Serbia had nothing to do with the aggression against Croatia, that the aggression was carried out by the Yugoslav People's Army and the local Serbs. I read about the same concept in these papers. Normally, it's no longer a thing, we went through the institutions again, through the Ministry of Culture, we wrote letters, and then we said to the Committee on Parliamentary Veterans, I didn't want any public controversy because I believed in institutions, and I hope that it would eventually get rid of it. But believe me, it deeply offends me that after we warn about some problems, okay, we all have some titles, we're doctors of science in some form, he could satisfy the form, but the content is such that it's inappropriate to find such a person at the head of the Governing Council and that's why I reacted, and that's why I just can't reconcile because it's just all about conflict with facts. The mere fact that the President of the Board of Directors was an academic, historian, and that he was replaced by a young sociologist, says something in favor of all of this that might not have been an accident, but let's leave it alone. Believe me, I have reasons because in the last five years we've worked together with the defense, we've been well aware of what someone's been doing in witness education and how they've placed in public data that has nothing to do with facts. If necessary, I've also asked for a special public debate between my colleagues who are now president of the Governing Council and myself, to see who's talking and who can back up with the documents and then let the public judge, that would be the best of my thoughts. After all, this young colleague proposed to the last Governing Council that... firm and said, "A minimum of 50,000 kuna should be provided." My people, we are responsible for the citizens who finance and pay us, the Law on the Work of the Centre very clearly states what the Centre needs to do, the only thing we need help with is someone who has experience in withdrawing these international funds, but they can't be a condition of the Centre's work, but only assistance in the work of the Centre. The security problem created by the appointment of another member of the Governing Council, I will not open it here, but do not forget that we were in the process with the Republic of Serbia in very important topics and that our centre is preparing documentation for the Croatian legal team. I'm not gonna open that topic any further, I think there's someone who's got to take care of it. And here, just for the end, in the meantime, since we've written this report another fellow doctorate, tomorrow another fellow has a doctor's defense work, so this year there will be two new doctors of science, and I think that's the strategy the center has set. We are the primary archival institution, we must not ignore it, but by education, by education of our staff, we want them to be able to do the interpretation and together with other institutions, of course we will draw close to some objective truth about the Homeland War. Here, I think that's all I'm supposed to say and thank you again for your support and try to understand so that some of our objections regarding only the Administrative Council are simply the reason we lost some of our energy. I, brother to my brother, as much as I wrote the memos, how much I had to explore certain persons to be able to react, could have written another book during this period, but I spent time on something I didn't need to do. In scientific institutions, let's not just look at the form of those we put in, but let's look at the contents, if we don't have time for that, when we get a warning of that content, then at least call a meeting, we'll have a debate, and we'll settle it within 10 days for the pleasure of everyone, we shouldn't go public, we shouldn't be here at the Parliament all of it. Thank you very much for your attention and thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95893	Thank you, too, to the Director of the Memorial Documentation Center of the Homeland War. The debate is closed. We'll vote on the report when we get the terms, probably Friday morning. Report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2013. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2013 is accepted. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted unanimously by 117 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95896	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Before the start of the speech Before the start of the speech on the theme of the Day of Remembrance of Roma Victims, Holocaust/Porajmos I will remind you that today is December 10th, International Human Rights Day. [[/Intruder President: Time is coming hand in hand from now on. Anybody got a hitchhiker? Thank you.]] On that day of the year, we need to remember in particular what we have done in the past in strengthening and protecting human rights, and it is known that the Roma national minority is often the target of violating these same rights in terms of discrimination and national and racial intolerance. My colleagues and colleagues, I come before you with a proposal to announce the Day of Remembrance of the Roma victims of Porajmos/Holokaust. What exactly does the term Porajmos mean? The term Porajmos is a term in the Roma language that marks the genocide of the Roma, or the Roma Holocaust over that people during II. World War II by Nazi Germany and political regimes under its control, including the Independent State of Croatia founded in the spring of 1941 after the military break of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in the April War. In 1933 after the collapse... the republic in Germany came to power the National Socialist Party and for Roma in Europe began their worst period in history. Immediately after the takeover of power, total racial ideology will begin, resulting in the opening of the concentration camps for all those who do not fit the ideals of Aryan racial purity, and above all, Jews and Roma. In addition to the infamous Nurmbek laws defining the racial policies of Nazi Germany in 1939, a law against the gypsies that sealed the fate of Roma in Europe tailored to a Nazi extent was passed. Although Roma back hundreds of years are characterized by segregation, poverty and difficult living conditions, the establishment of an independent state of Croatia begins their most difficult days. On 30 April 1941, the Ustasha authorities adopted a series of legal provisions that deprive Roma and other racial enemies of the regime of civil rights. Ustasha authorities under racial laws faithfully followed their German ally. The most famous legal provisions are a legal provision on raciality, a legal provision on citizenship and a legal provision on the protection of Aryan blood and the honor of the Croatian people. We are wanted by impeccable Croatian origin, and over those who did not meet this condition were allowed settlements. As soon as the camp's finals are established in NDH, the mass loss of the Roma begins in them. The Roma's largest site was the largest death factory in these areas of the Jasenovac camp. The arrest of Roma and their departure to Jasenovac in Ustasha votes were justified by bringing constructive work and giving them the opportunity to perfect themselves in the business and craft that suits them most. Logor Jasenovac was a camp system consisting of several camps at a smaller or greater distance from the village of Jasenovac. In mid - 1942, large transports of Roma, consisting of a series of accurate wagons, began to arrive in the camp, and three were soon established. Only the Roma were imprisoned in camp three. It was a fenced and famous space where people were kept out in the open without food and water, resulting in mass dying from thirst, hunger and freezing. The Roma were soon involved in forced labor in the camp and suffered from exhaustion and mass liquidation. The International Day of Remembrance of Roma victims of genocide is commemorated on August 2nd as a memory of all Roma killed in World War II. The date was selected to commemorate 1944 when 2897 Roma were killed in only one day at the Auschwitz Nazi camp. The Council of Europe has accepted the initiative of several Roma organisations to bring up the day of Roma disaster. So far, two national parliaments have officially declared on August 2nd the day of memory of Roma victims in the Second World War in Hungary in 2005, and in Poland three years ago. On 2 August, Croatia marked itself at the Roma cemetery in Ustica near Jasenovac on the initiative of the Roma Association for Promoting Roma Education in the Republic of Croatia Kalisar. The same association in co-operation with the Roma National Council and the public institution mentioned Jasenovac area has initiated the setting of the monuments of the board and the original arrangement of the cemetery that had been completely unsettled and healed in weeds by then. During the time near the cemetery, a stage was set and another necessary infrastructure was needed in order for the ceremony to be held on 2 August, and there is also a plan for further editing of the cemetery in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and the Association for the Promotion of Roma Education in the Republic of Croatia Kalisar. The date brings together thousands of people from Roma, from the Republic of Croatia and neighbouring countries to honor the innocent victims of Porajmos, and the regular ceremony is attended by representatives of the government, parliament, diplomatic assembly and local self-government units. On the subject of Porajmos and the memorial in Jasenovac, several chambers were issued as a permanent reminder of these events. The year will mark 70 years since the release of the Jasenovac camp. It is an opportunity and obligation to do everything to get the Roma a decently arranged place where their memorials could be held. The village of Ustica in which the memorial was held was a sort of lobby of the Jasenovac camp, where Serbs lived before World War II, and it was brought by the deported Roma. Many have already been liquidated there. There are 21 tombs at the scene today, which is rare for the death of the Roma in World War II. According to the name list of post-war victims, which are constantly supplementing the Jasenovac area in the area of the Jasenovac camp, 16173 persons of Roma nationality were executed by 5688 men, 4877 women and 5 thousand six eight children. The biggest mass arrests and massacre took place in mid- 1942 after the Ustasha authorities decided on the deportation of Roma to Jasenovac on 19 May. The list of Roma victims in Jasenovac and other sites of that time will never be final because Roma were not named after Roma cars brought to the site when they arrived at the collection centres. For example, according to the archives of the Jasenovac camp on June 5th 1942 in Jasenovac and Županja, a railway composition of 83 wagons was brought in, which were filled with Slavonian and Srijemic Roma. Also, when leaving the camp in the spring of 1945, NDH soldiers destroyed a large part of the camp's registered archival building. The proportion of Roma deaths illustrates the fact that in the first postwar list of Roma in the Federal Republic of Croatia, only a few hundred people were declared while several tens of thousands of Roma lived in the same area during the prewar period. It is irrefutable that the Jasenovic victims were persons of Serbian nationality in the highest percentage, but if we look at the proportion of the population, the largest casualties were the Roma community. As part of the presidency of the Republic of Croatia for a decade to include Roma, decades in Zagreb and Jasenovac, a conference on the integration of the historical experience of Roma in Europe took place in 2013 with the promotion of tolerance and non-discrimination of Roma, which adopted the conclusions and recommendations of the Jasenovo Declaration conference. It requires, among other things, the state and general social recognition of the Roma death in World War II in European and other countries. It is mainly due to growing discrimination against the Roma and to the promotion of scientific and other research related to the death of the Roma in World War II as one of the conditions for the application and recognition of their deaths. This proposal is in synergy with the European Parliament resolution on the memory of the Holocaust, anti-Semitism and racism of 27.05.2005 and with a proposal for a written statement by the European Parliament on the establishment of a European Day of Remembrance of Roma victims of the Holocaust on 2 August. Since the Roma do not have their home state, segregation and exclusion are their permanent companions on this subject very little is said and very little is known, so that the Roma death in World War II has been characterized by the forgotten genocide. Unlike the suffering of Serbs and Jews, many written buildings and professional works exist, and these topics have often been fields of political propaganda and manipulation of the death of Roma remain almost unknown. In the second world war, the Roma are unfortunately mentioned only marginally in the numbering of other peoples killed in World War II's whirlwind. The crime against the Roma in World War II was apparently forgotten in the sea of all other horrors that occurred during that period, and the younger generation is certainly not familiar with this horror through movies and books. And in school textbooks, the theme of Roma suffering is only mentioned on the same time. It may never be possible to correctly reconstruct places and figures but available facts stored and preserved in numerous archive and other institutions clearly prove that it was not individual cases but about the planned and legal extermination of an entire nation. Their origin and lifestyle turned them into victims of a fanatical, racist ideology. Roma were among the lowest ranked on a racial Aryan scale, so they had no right to their name and were killed namelessly, and each victim deserves at least to remember it by name and last name. The Roma have many divisions among themselves, and the most significant division is in speaking languages. When they were deprived of freedom, imprisonment and liquidation, no one asked them what language they spoke and which group they belonged to, it was enough that they were... like Roma, which also meant that their death warrant had already been passed. Roma in the Republic of Croatia mark three national holidays. This is the World Day of Roma marked on April 8th, the World Day of Roma Language, which is marked on November 5th and responds to the greatest and historical significance of the most significant day of memory of the Roma victims of the Holocaust Porajmos, which is marked on August 2nd each year and gathers an increasing number of participants in the Jasenovac memorial. I ask you fellow MPs to help this High Representative House mark this national holiday of the Roma people. It is not easy to build the unity of the Roma people as this nation is divided by historical circumstances and by the lack of state institutions. It is the Roma national holidays that are the place, way and means of guaranteeing the unity of that people. The International Day of Remembrance of the Roma victims of the Porajmos Holocaust on August 2nd. The Croatian Parliament would send a state-level message that the crime does not go out of date and that cruelty and folly of past times should be remembered so that it does not return in another form or similar form. Also, a message would be sent to the Roma in the Republic of Croatia that this country remembers and honors all their ancestors who were sentenced to death by a cruel regime only because they were darker skin colors and other life habits. The past of the Roma in Croatia cannot be changed but we can create the foundations for their future to be equal to all its inhabitants and I believe that today's proposal is a step in this direction. Dear fellow MPs, our moral obligation and political duty, no matter what service in the social community or political organisation, acted that all victims of the holocaust were well-committed and that at the same time in every place we would suppress the most unsuspecting trail of every racism and exclusion. In order for the death of the Roma in World War II to be marked with dignity and to honor the innocent victims they deserve, I urge all representatives of this House to follow the example of their Hungarian and Polish counterparts and to declare the Croatian Parliament on 2 August International Day of Remembrance of the Roma victims of Porajmos/Holokaust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95897	Thank you, too, dear fellow Kajtazi. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present their report? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. In the debate, we go to clubs in the Croatian Parliament. It's the Independent Club. ... Yeah, it's an independent club. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I put you like this into something else. Dear colleague Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95898	I'm an independent and national minority club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95899	I'm glad, I'm glad there's an independent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95900	Then we can immediately say that one third of our club will support it. I will continue about that tone in which we listened to the previous agenda point and what Mr. Katazi said, and I sign in advance everything they said. But I'm going to talk about something else, talk about something to keep quiet about, and for the past 70 years, something that's also connected to victims of totalitarian regimes. I'm going to talk about something that in history and history books doesn't say very much, so we don't have anything to quote. I said I'd support the proposal, and I think he's fine, I've been to Uzzica, and when he sees those 16,000 Roma dead graves, he can't stay indifferent. And it made such a profound impression on me because even though I know so many of these things in history, I was surprised I didn't know about those data and the visual image itself leaves this quite a hard impression. More or less in our society were talked about the injuries of everyone. In those deaths, Serbs, Jews, which is complete and normal, were mostly mentioned because they suffered the greatest victims. After the independence of the Republic of Croatia, the victims of the Croats came to light, and they began to be talked about. I'm talking about post-World War II casualties. It's been quiet for nearly 60 years about the Roma's injuries. And I'm very glad that Mr. Kajtazi started that topic and that we're going to make such a decision. However, I ask how long will I be silent about the horrors of another national minority recognised in the Republic of Croatia, how long will they be silent about the googogue of the Danube Krauts, the googoto of the Germans in Croatia? A journalistic attraction appears here and there, and some Gotttingen is mentioned in Germany, so they say the church bells from Popovac are being heard. Popovac is a village in Baranja. And then it's mentioned in those press reports that some strange people came to the White Manastir, or they came to Petlovac and looked at some houses. And these strange people are the ones who were exiled, expelled from that area as children, and they remember that they went to school here and there, and they went to church, and they were born here and there. Then it is mentioned that in the municipality of Petlovac or in the village of Čiminac someone restored the church, that some donations came from Germany, etc. Then when it's said that they did it or that it's all about the Danube Krauts or the Germans who are expelled and exiled, then it starts to talk. And I've heard these days from my colleagues when I told them what I wanted to tell them about, a lot of strange reactions, so don't be obsessing about them, so they were all fascists, so it was some kind of revenge for something, etc. And then the man looks at the logore documents in Valpovo and then he sees that someone was born in 1944 and died in 1945 and then he wonders, so is it possible that one child for a year would be declared a fascist? The 1931 census of the population in the former Yugoslavia or the Kingdom of Yugoslavia had some 500 thousand Germans, about half a million Germans more Bačka, Banat, Srijem, Baranja, Slavonia. By the end of the war in 1944, he moved away, retreated to Austria, Germany in fear, justified fear, perhaps in front of the Red Army and Partisans somewhere around 200 thousand. On 21.11.1941, AVNOJ and 11.6.1945 when a decision was made on the eviction and eviction of all Volksdeutschers from Yugoslavia began a massive persecution of these people. So we're talking about something that happens after the war operations have stopped and after the government's establishment in these areas. The decisions and decisions that all Germans received neatly, and not only the Germans who lived in that area were taken away from them, they got a solution about the exorcism and all those who couldn't leave were packed up in camps, they went to camps. The attitude towards Baranjska, according to the Croatian Germans to whom collective guilt has been attributed and legalized, is an illustrative example of ethnic cleansing and genocide. But in order for a man to explain it, he has to present some data, but it's not my place to fully explain it. It seems to me that the genocide was defined only in 1948, and it happened before. Of about 200 thousand Germans in the area of the former Yugoslavia who remained after II. Some 62,000 500 died somewhere in the world war. The 1931 census in the territory of today’s Republic of Croatia had about 170 thousand inhabitants, and in 1948, about 10 thousand 144. Data in Baranja is in Baranja in '31. 52,000 people lived in the year, of which there were 17,000 751 Germans. In 1948, that number fell to 4000 494. They were the most numerous ethnic group, followed by Hungarians, Croats, Serbs. It's... it's a list from '41. In the year, there was a list, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was working in '41. There was a list, there were about 3,000 499 inhabitants of which 1446 Germans. Next list that was made in '53. The year, there are 6 thousand inhabitants of that 487 Germans. So for some 1200 inhabitants of the German national minority, there was a decrease in number during that period. The fate of the evicted Germans is spoken little, almost nothing. I said, in textbooks here and there, there are some events and an internal decision by the German minority in the Republic of 12 May is mentioned as the Day of Remembrance of the victims of the persecution of the Germans. Sacrifice and the name list of victims who are not final and fully established in the area of Baranja is in... and during II. World War 20 lost the lives of at least 144 Germans, and of the number 870 civilians, civilians died or were killed in forced labour in the Yugoslav camps. Data from the Ministry of Interior of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia since 18 January say there are 10,000, 600 Germans in the territory of Croatia, of which 3,000 men, 4500 women and 3100 children, and 2000 Germans are at large. These data are not accurate because a good part of the exiled Germans ended up in Gakova or in camps in Bačka, and they are no longer in the area of the Republic of Croatia. In the camps were ruled by inhuman living conditions, hunger, winter, dysentery, typhoid, forced labor on agricultural goods, they took many lives. I support Mr. Keatazi's proposal, I support the National Minorities Club's proposal, but to close that history book, I think other victims should be talked about. I don't think we can and can't build on collective guilt just in those cases when it comes to the issue of our people, any of them, that there is no collective guilt of any people, that not all Germans were fascists, that not all Italians in Croatia were fascists, that not all Serbs were Chetniks, that not all Hungarians were fascists, that not all Croats were Ustashas and that we have to pass it on to young generations, we have to introduce them to those facts, and as Mr Djurovic said that this book had already been closed because of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95901	Dear colleague Juhas, I agree with you that the subject of the death of all nations and national minorities in II is. War and after II. The war of an important topic. I let you talk about the subject because out of dignity to every victim I respected your speech and those victims from Podunavska Krabs deserve the same treatment when the victims are like others, but on the agenda is the proposal for the International Day of Remembrance of Roma Victims and I don't think you said anything wrong, but it's very important to talk about this particular subject, so please all colleagues who have now applied,... let's respect what my colleague Juhas wanted us to say, but let's focus on the subject. I really think it's worth it to say, indeed, every victim, especially the collective responsibility of the Danube Krauts or the Germans in general, but let's get rid of what we agreed on. Here, so much to consider. We're going to argue with the representatives' clubs further. It is the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95902	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, the question of collective responsibility and today we sometimes have problems with it, including in this House. Very often we can from our colleagues and colleagues hear you from this party are all such and such, or are you all mentioned various names Mr. President, thieves, responsible, nothing you knew and today there are many here in the Croatian Assembly colleagues and colleagues who have problems Collective responsibilities [[Intruder Leko: From all sides.]] I told my colleagues and colleagues in this House, I didn't say which side, but good if it's so important we can say that, on all sides, yes. [[Intruder Leko: From all sides.]] Likewise, speaking of collective responsibility, it would be good for this House as an institution to hold on to these issues collective responsibility and valorizing what was good in the past and what was not good in the past. So it would be so good if the patronage of the Croatian Assembly were left on the victims of Bleiburg because we will agree on this and on the other hand that it was evil. And now let's get back to the motion for a decision. As for this proposal submitted by the Minority Club and the esteemed colleague of Kajtazi, who I must say was very active in promoting and rights of the Roma, and also the memories of their sacrifice that happened because of racial laws were from fascist regimes, there were... socialist regimes that accepted and applied to the shame of this country's racial law and in the way that my colleague Katazi mentioned, resulting in tens of thousands of victims. We also agree that the final list or the relevant list is not yet completed, as regards only individual places in the Republic of Croatia, there are certain named lists where this can be said precisely. Let's just say there are no individual lists for the Italians who were killed after '45. Some lists of 18 to 80,000 expelled according to some Italian historians are estimated. As far as this resolution of the EU Parliament is concerned, something similar to what I said to the Council of Europe, she has the right of a colleague, something like that I used to say when we had here, it seems to me to be the proposal of the day of Nikola Tesla, the announcement of the day of Nikola Tesla. At that time, we were about to agree to declare the day, but it's not a dispute, but if we always stay on the day's announcement, I don't think we're going to achieve the end effect. The ultimate effect that, following this adoption of the International Memorial Day, should be enhanced activity of the Ministry of origin. You know well-respected colleagues that I won't say standing in place, but you could do better, especially in the last three years. You also know that representatives of the HDZ Club and the HDZ Presidency are present at almost every event concerning the issue of the Roma minority, any cultural nature, whether the issue of education and promotion of education in the Roma language, whether the issue of the movement of the cathedral in the Roma language, or the question of valorising what happened in World War II by the Quislin regime. It would also be good for Croatia to now have a motion for a resolution based on the Council of Europe's proposal to declare the 2nd August on the Day of Remembrance of the Genocide of the Roma. It would also be important to apply some existing dates of this type, such as August 23, the European Day of Remembrance to victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. They'd say some of them on both sides, so totalitarian and authoritative, we're talking about the 23rd column. We are not sure that in the Republic of Croatia we have made an adequate balance in applying the European Day of Remembrance to victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, it is 23. 18 other member states mark the 27th of January as the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims, this is the date of the release or breach of Allied Forces in Auschwitz, so there are no dissents related to Holocaust victims in some countries, there is no distinction between Roma, Jews of some Slavic peoples, etc. but in a way, it wants to be marked as a common name by wanting to apostrophe that the holocaust as such had truly devastating consequences for many, not just a certain ethnic or national or religious group. As for the marking and all of what my colleague Kajtazi was saying and what he always points out, we also feel that this should be highlighted whenever it is an opportunity. I also think that more should be in the education system and educational curricula, and I also think that it should be precisely because there was not enough integration in that time, so to call it coloquial, and that integration could mean anything. I don't mean by losing cultural specifics and a certain cultural identity, but by integration into social processes, if there were more at that time, maybe the consequences and the consequences of politics in World War II would have been less. Just because this would be prevented in every sense in the right way for the future, I believe that this educational process and the process of linking social groups, national groups today are extremely important so that no ideological consolidation can prepare any idea of such Holocaust repeating itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95903	Thank you too, dear colleague. It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's turn in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Melita Mulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95904	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. When we discussed this initiative of the National Minorities Club, I was convinced that we would have consensus and unanimity and that we would not be able to get anyone on behalf of the clubs to compare the victims because we are deeply convinced at the SDP club that every victim deserves a drink, and in particular we think that this 2 August should be declared a day of memory of Roma victims precisely because Roma are just like the Jews at the time so-called. The independent countries of Croatia were persecuted by the basis of racial laws. And that this is a fundamental distinction and that is why we actually support that from now on we will institutionally mark this mentioned August 2nd. And we see this as an anti-forgetting initiative, anti-transition, and that's why we remember a crime that's been systematically cross-referencing for many years. As the Declaration itself says about whom Kajtazi and his colleague Mesic spoke, it is necessary that the state and general social recognition of Roma suffering in the Second World War in European and other countries be recognised as making growing discrimination against the Roma, as well as to encourage the investigation of crimes related to the death of the Roma in World War II. But in any case, for appropriate recognition, institutional marking, education, and information, and just how crimes committed with the aim of genocide and systematic extinction would never be repeated again. My colleagues and colleagues personally, individually, national, international and institutional, we must systematically and permanently make efforts to ensure that genocide and systematic persecution on the basis of ethnicity, nationality, race or any other reason based on physical characteristics but also beliefs, attitudes would not take place as they have marked the 20th century. And I will single out only some examples in the 20th century of Auschwitz, Jasenovac, Vukovar, Srebrenica. Before this decision and this initiative, we discussed the work of the Croatian Documentation Memorial Centre and the foundations of our statehood are in the Homeland War, but they are also based on anti-fascist Croatia, so on the decisions of the Earth's anti-fascist council against which it was declared so-called. The independent state of Croatia in which it happened in the Jasenovac concentration camp that the total number of Roma victims was 16 thousand 173. And that there were no parent books and there was no records by name, that Roma were in concentration camps so-called. The NDH was recorded by the number of wagons that were brought in, and thus the exact numbers and proportions of each soul's death, each life, although the proportions of suffering are both in relative and absolute numbers tragic. I will repeat that the SDP Club believes that each victim should be approached with a pitet and also on the subject of what his colleague Juhas said and that by recognising and setting a date for the European and international markings, we believe that we are warning of the greatest crimes against humanity, the existence of racial laws without reducing anyone's individual loss or the deaths of other peoples. There's too little talk of genocide over the Roma, and it's reluctant to write. This is an institutional way of warning that it must not be forgotten and that all people have the same rights and the right not to be the same. Today, colleagues and colleagues are International Human Rights Day, today is December 10th, and every assembly of this House has better and worse laws, contracts, decisions. I think this is one of the decisions I'm proud of, we at the SDP club, and I think that as MPs and advocates, we can be proud of the sacrifice, declaring it mentioned in the defense of the right to life, of human dignity, mentioning an innocent victim who died just because she was different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95905	Thank you, too, dear colleague. It is up to the HDSSB club and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95906	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Often travelling on the route Novska, Jasenovac, Ustica, Tanac, Croatia Dubica, Dvor na Uni, Bosnian Novi, etc. I used to stop by for coffee at Jasenovac. There was a local church that was brought down in the Croatian Homeland War and in front of the church was a monument, so not in the camp itself, at the place of the camp Jasenovac but in Jasenovac and on that monument was what counterpart Melita said earlier, so this is what we are talking about nationalizing the method of recognition of victims. And that monument said something I can't meet anymore, so there's no record left. It said, "The dead open their eyes." So the dead remind us to be aware, to be different from those who were at the time of this crime in Jasenovac. So a very educational saying, very short, very clear and very concise and that tells everything. So the dead eyes open. And we today are just as different as we think about it differently and we have become a democratic state, more democratically than that of the former SFRY country who has never talked about Roma and victims of Roma, except when it is in Jasenovac, so on the list of victims of Serbs, Roma, etc. Today we have the opportunity to recognize the mark of the International Day of Remembrance of Roma victims of the race as they say or the Holocaust in fact. It is therefore the international day of August 2nd, which coincides with other days of the Ilinden uprising of Macedonia, August 2nd is Orthodox Ilindan, but there are other dates well, therefore irrelevant even though I said so. So when in Auschwitz, about 3,000 Roma were killed in the same day. Here we also have statistics on page 8 of this one edition very much to say luxuriously equipped in which it says that 16 173 Roma were killed in the Jasenovac camp, and that the location of the marking is when you leave Jasenovac to Dubica in the town of Ustica. So the mouth is called because the Una River affects the Sava River right where it is. On the left hand side of the Union is the place where it has been marked here for two years, three years consecutively marking the Roma victims of the Porajm or the Holocaust. In the Croatian Parliament, there was an initiative in the last meeting and part of this called for another 20th century genocide, centuries of wars, genocide, killings, one century of great unrest and one situation where there were many such phenomena. One of them was, and this was in the Croatian Assembly at the HNS initiative marking the holodome in Ukraine when about 10 million Ukrainians were tired of hunger by the central, central Soviet authorities or Stalin directly. It has never been our turn, we always introduce the laws by emergency procedure, the laws by emergency procedure, and so the holodomor fell out of the debate at the Croatian Parliament in the last meeting and I think it was even at the beginning of this...... Well, thank you very much. Here's the correction, I appreciate it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If so, Mr. President knows even though he hasn't been President of the Parliament since the beginning of this call. So it is good to see and all see the differences between SFRY's relations to this Roma issue of genocide and in that state we know what was the relationship to the Roma, but the Republic of Croatia can be sure that it recognises the democratic standards of this new country, Croatia, which came first on the foundations of the Homeland War where they really find their place and days like the International Day of Remembrance of Roma victims, without any illusion of anything. From the holodomere, from the murders and not to say the extermination of the Germans and the Danube, according to counterpart Juhas Krauts, of being, for example. In the town of Lower Andrians when you go to the cemetery then you see that there are still 50% of the graves of the people who died by '45. And they're wearing German names. We know about the German last name. So those who moved out of Slavonic, baranja, now let's not talk about other states, Buck, Sreme, etc. places or were killed right after World War II. My colleague, Juhas, put out the statistics very extensively, so there's no need. The Italians who moved also out of Istria after World War II, but also no one talks about Croats who had to be killed during the fascist rule after that agreement between Italy and Yugoslavia, and some have moved from Istria to other parts of Croatia. No one ever talks about them here, but well, you should mention it. There's no collective guilt, but we need to mention every victim, and we need to find compassion. About the fact that I would say hundreds of thousands of Croats were killed, starting with Bleiburg on the crossroad, it was a film series and a film called Fourthly in 1999 directed by Jacob Sedlar, and that since then on Croatian television for these 15 years, I do not know why, that there is a day of memory of victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, including victims and the Roma national minority, and that the Croatian Parliament has not yet made a decision that, in accordance with the decision of 18 members of the European Union, that it also accepts that day as a day of remembrance. So we have a lot to discuss, but this time I wouldn't be spreading to any other subjects. Either way, the HDSSB club will be there for us to accept this initiative. I was an observer of the Croatian Parliament. Two days in the plenary session of the European Parliament discussed crimes in Rwanda, although it is Africa, had nothing to do with Europe and the European Union, but two days were under discussion about the crimes in Rwanda, as well as women who were burned in the plants of the textile industry in Bangladesh owned by some European firms. So these are the ones that were for small, small money, for half a dollar's worth of sewing without having any equipment or firepower. 250 women were burned in one sewing engine plant. So the European Parliament is also discussing the phenomena of such species that have occurred on other continents of Asia, Africa, and why should we not discuss this phenomenon, that is, this data that is sub-stantiated here. So, on the holocaust, the death of 16173 members of the Roma national minority of whom were somehow equal to men, women and what is the worst and children. Which is the saddest thing. Now, once again let this message be to us all I will repeat it once again that the dead eyes are opening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95907	My colleague Grubisic, again for the sake of the Croatian public, must say that I must say that all the Croatian Parliament, including all the institutions of the Government, the President of the Republic of 23 August on the day of memory of the victims of totalitarian regimes, at least I can testify to the last two of them taking a crown at Jazovka. It's from the European Declarations of Resolutions. So we've actually accepted and marked that day, in fact we have. ... That's okay. It's all right. [[You can't hear it.]] We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is next to the HNS club and the esteemed representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95908	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian People's Party Club therefore joins the proposal for a decision to declare the International Day of Remembrance of Roma victims of Porajmos/Holokaust. I must say by listening to the discussions of the previous that what we can all certainly be proud of in this high house that we have extraordinary feelings of piety and honor for all the victims of not only World War II, and I believe that this is one of the greatest values not only when we are discussing such topics, but the awareness and responsibility that we bear as parliamentary representatives and advocates. When we talk about the persecution of the Roma in World War II, when we talk about the Holocaust, the genocide of the Jews, and other peoples, but also those who were just anti-fascists and non-sanitaries, or are just because they were different or they were different thought something that really marks every memory of the victims and gives them every pitet. Today we are discussing the date of August 2nd as the date of memory of the genocide of the Roma especially in Croatia but we always speak and remember those 500 000 in World War II, we remember all those thousands of innocent victims who thought differently, looked or perhaps didn't even say the words that a colleague used to say, but were victims. That is why discussions and discussions on these topics are important that in the Croatian public, and especially young people point to that part of the past so that no such things will ever happen again tomorrow, not only in World War II, but also as counterpart Mulic said and let us remember both Vukovar and Srebrenica and all the victims, and what he said to his colleague Grubisic as well as in the European Parliament about Rwanda where the same millions were killed. So, all of this is when we discuss victims something that we have to talk about especially when we talk about Roma, Roma who do not have their own state, then this act of the Croatian Parliament... They don't have their own national state. [[The President's intrusion, you can't hear it.]] Thank you, Mr. President, for your correction. Then, yes, they have their own state and that is why we are extremely pleased and because we can discuss both the Roma and not only this marking, but their co-existence, the way in which Croatia is their country. The modern Croatian state that was created in the Homeland War is a hero, the victim of our defenders is based on anti-fascist struggle. Modern Croatia, which is an EU member, which has antifascism in its constitution, is building its society of democracy, equality, tolerance, freedom, individual rights and peace. And today, when we remind all victims not only of the victims of Roma, we repeat again and send a message that some of the topics that they often bring up and bring up divisions in society are topics that we discuss as much as we can about them, the more we learn about them based on history, the more we learn about them from the facts of these young people and our children, young people who come about the values of peace, the values of democracy, the values of tolerance and the rights of all regardless of nationality, religion, language. And once again we support the marking of this day, the marking of this day's memories of the 2 August Roma, which should be marked, and always thinking that whenever any such memorial is marked, we are thinking about all the victims of all and totalitarian regimes, and all the victims of all the wars and disasters that have occurred both the Republic and the whole world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-10-0.u95909	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of registered clubs. Does he want to do it on behalf of the proposer? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met, I hope Friday. This is what we would like to conclude today, the plenary work of the Croatian Parliament. We'll continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. as usual what we agreed. So we start with 11 because it's very important that we have representatives of the promoters, so I ask what we agreed because many are busy, the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary school, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. BR.763. And another point is the 12 Work and Business Report of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in 2013. I hope we do it tomorrow as we predicted. Thank you very much. Session interrupted at 1900 hours. Proposal for a decision to declare the International Day of Remembrance of Roma victims of Porajmos/Holokaust, which is marked on 2 August. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 113 votes in favour, 1 abstentions, have been decided to declare the International Day of Remembrance of Roma victims of Porajmos/Holokaust, which is marked on 2 August. In the text proposed by the Proposer together. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
