ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87771	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs. In the Republic of Croatia, the management of radioactive waste is a problem that has not been systematically approached in the last 60 years. As a result of the lack of systematic access today, we face the obligation to edit systems and dispose of radioactive waste and exhausted sources that have been created by 60 years of use of ionising radiation sources in medicine, industry, science, military and public use during the 30 years of exploitation of Krško Nuclear Power Plant, as well as locations that have been polluted in the last 50 years by natural radioactive material, as well as by industrial and energy activities. The proposed draft strategy represents a significant step in the systematic problem-solving in line with positive experiences and best international practice, and is based on the Radiological and Nuclear Safety Act and Directive 2011/70... establishing a Community framework for responsible and secure disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste. The strategy defines guidelines and targets for the disposal of radioactive waste and the recovery of sites polluted with natural radioactive materials. They are defined to ensure the protection of individuals, society and the environment, in the present and future from the harmful effects of ionising radiation and to avoid the transfer of burdens on the disposal of radioactive waste, used sources and spent nuclear fuel to future generations. The main elements of the strategy are: building and supplementing the regulatory framework and the necessary institutional and human capacities, clear division of responsibilities both for implementation and for financing the implementation of the strategy, the establishment of a national centre for the disposal of radioactive waste within which all the necessary activities would be carried out, from collection to final and permanent disposal of radioactive waste, the development of plans and the recovery of sites polluted with natural radioactive materials, transparent and active public involvement during the preparation and implementation of activities resulting from the strategy. The implementation of the strategy of established guidelines and objectives will be elaborated in detail in the National Programme for the Implementation of the Strategy. This programme will establish the basis for an effective legal framework with relevant institutional infrastructure for the safe and effective disposal of radioactive waste, used sources and spent nuclear fuel and for the repair of locations with natural radioactive materials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87772	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Whether the presidents of the working bodies of the board of the Croatian Parliament, yes. Dear Representative Branko Bačić, Committee for the Protection of Nature and the Environment. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87773	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy, Mr. Director, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 50th session held on 23 September, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a strategy for the disposal of radioactive waste, used sources and spent nuclear fuel delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the above proposed strategy as an interested working body. In the opening statement, the proposing representatives stressed the obligation of Member States to present, in accordance with the European Union Directive, national programmes in which they will indicate when, where and how they will provide spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste, with the application of the highest safety standards. The proposed strategy is the first step in establishing a national programme of the Republic of Croatia that is obliged to provide institutional radioactive waste and used sources of ionising radiation, to resuscitate sites where natural radioactive materials are located, and to take over half of the radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel currently stored in Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The strategy advocates one location in the Republic of Croatia where a radioactive waste management centre would be established. The strategy also provides for the application of a gradual approach to the development of this centre. Following the opening argument in the discussion on the Committee, the importance of using existing documents of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly on the disposal of radioactive waste, as well as the knowledge and achievements of some Member States, particularly France, which has a rich experience of nuclear waste recycling. In the context of the bilateral agreement of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, which has taken responsibility for the disposal of half of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plant, which has been in force for 12 years, and the strategy for the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel produced in the framework of the accession negotiations, a clarification of the reasons for longevity has been requested to address the issue of permanent disposal of radioactive waste. It draws attention to how a working group was formed at the beginning of this term of office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which discussed the definition of the location for the permanent disposal of this type of waste as part of abandoned military facilities in the area of stable geological structures. It has been pointed out that it is not far off in achieving concrete solutions. It is also stressed that, for the realisation of the outlined objective, extremely important education and communication with the public, and, starting with the successful example of Slovenia, so far, the communication of competent authorities with the public has been assessed unsatisfactory. The proposer noted that in the last year significant efforts have been made to develop this strategy in order to create preconditions for the development and adoption of a national programme by August 2015. In particular, there are insufficient human resources for the implementation of the objectives of the strategy itself, and this strategic document also highlights the establishment of these capacities. It is pointed out that the selection process of the location of the Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste must be carried out with the participation of the public. In this context, it is of great importance to the local community in a transparent way to present the risks and offer them adequate compensation. Communication with the local community in the area which was defined as a space for construction of low and medium radioactive waste through the 1999 spatial planning programme of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the proposing representative stressed that after the adoption of the strategy, we should work intensively on its implementation, including strengthening human resources. After the debate was held, the committee unanimously 7 votes decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a Strategy for the Management of Radioactive Waste from Used Sources and Exhausted Nuclear Fuel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87774	Thank you very much, esteemed board president. The Committee on Health and Social Policy, President-in-Office Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87775	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At its 51st session on 9 July 2014, the Committee on Health and Social Policy discussed the point in question as a parent body. The draft strategy also has a clear legal basis in the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act and is fully in line with Directive 2011/70... establishing a Community framework for responsible and safe disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] By entering the EU, the Republic of Croatia as well as any Member State shall have the ultimate responsibility to establish a national system for the safe disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel generated on its territory, i.e. the owner. The legislative framework in the Republic of Croatia in the section relating to the safe disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel should be completed and brought into line with the relevant internationally recognised criteria and standards. The current strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 11 July 2009 shall be put out of effect, given that its guidelines and conclusions have not been implemented, nor has it been followed in accordance with the conclusions of its implementation. It's interesting that this strategy has never actually been published, as if it never existed. The members of the Committee positively assessed the commitment and guidelines taken by the Republic of Croatia in those areas defined by the strategy, which will subsequently be developed in the National Programme for the Implementation of the Strategy. In this connection, they accepted the main specifics of the strategy, the construction and complementarity of the regulatory framework and the necessary institutional and human capacities, the sharing of responsibilities for the implementation and financing of the strategy, the development of plans and the resolution of sites polluted with natural radioactive materials, and in particular welcomed the possibility of transparent and active public involvement during the preparation and implementation of activities arising from the strategy. After a hearing with 8 votes, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a strategy for the disposal of radioactive waste from used sources and spent nuclear fuel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87776	Thank you, too, Mr. President-in-Office of the Board. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, Honored President Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87777	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Representative, the Director. At its 35th session on 24 September this year, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a strategy for the disposal of radioactive waste from used sources and spent nuclear fuel as an interested working body. It was pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2009 developed a strategy for the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel as part of accession negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, but guidelines, objectives and conclusions were not only implemented but such a strategy could not be found. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to adopt a new strategy in which, in a systematic, long-term manner, it has access to problem-solving in accordance with law, directive, international regulations and best international practice in this area. The Republic of Croatia has an obligation to dispose of its radioactive waste, exploited sources of ionising radiation generated by 60 years of use of ionising radiation sources in medicine, industry, science, military and public use. It also has an obligation to resuscitate locations where natural radioactive materials are located, physically take over and take over half of the radioactive waste of spent nuclear fuel currently stored in NE Krško, which is also an obligation stemming from the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the two countries on investment, exploitation and decommissioning of the power plant. It is pointed out that, as a member of the EU, the Republic of Croatia has an obligation to present, in accordance with the said Directive, a national programme in which it will indicate when, where and in what way, take care of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste with the application of the highest safety standards. Each EU Member State therefore has a final responsibility for establishing a national system for the safe disposal of that and such waste generated on its territory, i.e. the owner, and details of the strategic guidelines will be set out in the National Programme for the implementation of the strategy that EU governments must adopt by August 2015 at the latest. The Committee members supported the adoption of a strategy in view of the obligation to develop the national programme and the strategic guidelines resulting from it. The question has also been raised why the strategic environmental impact assessment has not been approached since the Environmental Protection Act provided for that obligation, although I stress that the current Strategic Assessment Regulation does not contain it and the new one has not yet been adopted. And another question has been raised regarding the disposal of these and such wastes of used sources, ionising radiation and the implementation of the recovery process, locations where natural radioactive materials are located, given the need to respect the obligation to provide a safe and technologically safe way to take care of this waste. And the question of the need to resuscitate the site has raised the question of who will bear the financial cost of that recovery. Finally, since each EU member state has an obligation to provide its own radioactive waste on its territory, other than the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia, which may have a common disposal, the question is raised, given that exports are also exceptionally permitted under the Directives, doubts are expressed in respect of compliance with the rules laid down in the Directive in EU Member States where nuclear power plants are the primary source of electricity. Finally, after the debate was held, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a Strategy for the Management of Radioactive Waste, Used Sources and Exhausted Nuclear Fuel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87778	Thank you, Your Honor. Before we open the debate and by the clubs we start to discuss Sunday 12th of this month and this year in the Croatian Parliament we have an open door as popularly said, Open Door Day. It would be good if each of the clubs had someone in the Parliament. Citizens come to visit the Croatian Assembly and can at least ask someone from each option. It would be good, it would be correct for the citizens we represent here if we had someone from every club. Of course, every MP has the right and opportunity and will likely use it to share his views on the work of Parliament and other political issues with citizens. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We are going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Club of Representatives of the Independent List and the Honored Representative Ivan Grubisic is next to share with Mr Kajin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87779	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, leaders in today's topic, as well as representatives of the board. I tried to listen carefully to everything and it was a strategy of yesterday's education, science and technology, and today a proposal for a strategy for the disposal of radioactive waste, used sources and spent fuel etc. What gets into my eyes is that it's about fire measures how something needs to be done but mostly not to do anything. On this occasion, I would draw attention to what Croatia needs, and also to this Assembly, which is to try to build a strategy for the development of Croatia through the ministries of today's government and other experts. This should come from the President-in-Office himself, in my opinion, and he would task them to work out a strategy at least 15 years from now. That this strategy goes through the discussion in the Croatian Parliament and if this development strategy is accepted within 15 years, it will be a normative act by which any government will come and manage it as the basis for which they will work and be evaluated. Without this strategic document, Croatia's development of this individual measure, the strategy is short-term, undefined at all, and this is a great shortage in the work of the Parliament and in the work of this Government. With the paliative measures, we're not going to do anything, but we're going to deepen the crisis, and formally everything seems to be fine. I therefore believe that it is necessary to launch a national development programme for Croatia to go through the debate in the Croatian Parliament and if the programme is accepted to be a normative act for the operation of this or any other government that will be based on the results of the parliamentary elections. What seems to me to be a major flaw in our work and our discussions that no one wants to object. I'm afraid it's about one civilization phenomenon of objectivity or the phenomenon of hypocrisy where one is spoken, the other is about third thoughts. Such a course of action is impossible to support in the long run because it leads nowhere and leads nothing. It is written in the New Testament, Evangelist Matthew, "That Jesus could not accept only one category of people as associates and associates, and these were scribes and Pharisees." For them, it says St. Matthew seven times said "Woe to you." Therefore, if we are thus ruled by respecting the truths defined as authority and not by the authority of the truth as far as the profession, science, knowledge of things will not bring Croatia into an open civil society. That's why I think that hypocrisy tells us one thing, the other you think, the third thing is a dead end that doesn't lead anywhere, and that with that practice if it's there, you should simply interrupt and start telling the truth about Croatian reality, because as the Bible says again, "Only the truth, and that means what's really happening, not our opinion or our opinions expressed in one negative way about our reality." There could be found regardless of opposition or party in power, on the same programme to work on it, to pass the discussion in the Croatian Parliament, to be accepted as a national development strategy and that each government is obliged to work on this programme and to report to this home which will or will not be accepted, but then follow sanctions for those who do not implement the strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament. So much for the introduction to think about these strategies in order to mature the thought and to launch the idea of a strategy for Croatia's development in all segments of its life and work. Continuing the discussion Damir Cain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87780	Thank you, too. Damir Cain, the esteemed representative, part two.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87781	Honorable President, Mr. Deputy, the honourable gentlemen of the council that exactly no one wants to blame anyone, but there will come a day when we will simply have to leave it to the profession and the profession will have to determine where this radioactive waste will have to be placed. I could also hypocritically say try to pull it off, where to Russia. Yesterday we have been looking here in Parliament for Kim il sung or as is called una, in North Korea and China, try to make a deal with Krško or the Republic of Slovenia, but yes, I will say the same, so that someone would not think to store it in abandoned mines in Istria, Tuplek, Ripenda or Rasha, which, for example, ten, fifteen years ago has been very much talked about behind this assembly. I agree that the problem that all predecessors have said is extremely serious, not because of those perhaps nine cubes in Croatia, but what will one day catch up with us when the nuclear power plant in Krško is shut down, that is, when their or its warehouses co-financed by both the Republic of Croatia and from which the Republic of Croatia participates in 50% of the costs and 50% of the distribution of electricity. We are aware of the fact that someday we will have to take care of some of this waste here in Croatia. I don't believe in consensus in this House of Commons, and that's why I would really appeal to determine the professions, and then to me simply, or those who will be given the term of office of the citizens. On the other hand, we keep moving our priorities, and here comes the oil story in the Adriatic. Whether we are to extract that oil or not, extracting domestic oil in 10 years has been halved, production is less than 43% true, but oil processing has fallen by more than a third from 2003 to the end of 2012, and this is the environmental status report. Glass gases, the truth God is getting smaller, but for what? Mostly because of the crisis because people don't have money so they don't drive anymore. Our sea is as pure as tear or tear gas, again due to the fall of industry along the coast, but fortunately we'll live a little longer. I say on the other hand, God forbid we become Kuwait. I am also aware that we will have to sacrifice a lot, that literally this country and the citizens of the country survive. Whoever thinks we can live just as much from the air and the sun and external duty, I think he's wrong. It should be said and admitted also that when it comes to waste management in this country, Croatia is far more advanced today than it has been. Once again, however, I will repeat that someone would not have thought of taking care of it in the mines of Labinština, even if it were up to me, it would have reconsidered the construction of a coal thermal power plant in Labin, or down in.... As far as the radioactivity and pollution of nature are concerned, the studies that are constantly appearing before us are great, clearly that these studies should be supported, but there is always the question of whether we have money. This study offers several moments of building a legal basis, we're maheri, there's no problem, the National Waste Management Centre, I suggest that it fully coordinate, that we find people within the existing minister, make plans, involve the public, but tomorrow we'll find ourselves in a situation where we'll have to locate, or build these warehouses for the installation of radioactive material. There's talk here and where it's going to be. It will likely be in abandoned military facilities or military facilities that are not used, where there are stable geological conditions, or where these objects are probably, I have no doubt at all, someday a locality will be found somewhere along the border. With who? With BiH most likely and in so wide open, we also need to talk to them about it. Someone might think that when they saw, I don't know, the Monument of Katarina in the heart of Pula that they had been hit by an atomic bomb so that it could actually be settled there, but I repeat again, a caca from Istria with that radioactive waste. There are good examples in the world, mentioned here in France. I also have the impression that in every session of the Parliament, one debate is being held on that or such strategies, meaning in each term one, but much further than that, it didn't go away. However, very quickly, and this is being driven by Krško, some government will have to decide where to place the waste and where to simply find the funds. For the end, we must certainly not become a country for importing radioactive waste. The problem is that we don't have deadlines, and that we don't have any money, not in the strategy, but in the state budget. However, there is a commitment to care, but as my predecessor said, the strategy for the strategy makes no sense, because I am convinced that the past which was not much worse which we are offered today and which we will probably take at the next vote and accept. So, for the end, Croatia has an obligation to take care of this waste, I think about radioactive, it is not controversial, but yes, someone will say that this strategy is for the sake of strategy. Croatia should, in parallel, raise economic, industrial, in all other ways, solve problems in agriculture, and sometimes I dare say, it would be better to have greater emissions and these... gases, and that there are fewer unemployed, that there are more ones, that under... and greater exports, but radioactive waste should be absolutely said no. And I agree that Don Grubisic when he says when such strategies are in response, no one really wants to blame anyone, but there will come a day when someone will simply have to cut and make a decision and therefore, before the political consensus or political consensus could go in the direction that this matter will be, and especially where the location for the installation of radioactive material will be left to the profession or to the best experts that Croatia has in this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87782	Thank you very much. It's a good thing you're getting along at the club, that's not bad, but we do have replicas of your exposure. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica. Thank you very much, you picked up the board, I wrote down, you gave up. It's all right. We're going to the next line, the esteemed representative Drazenko Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87783	Here, thank you. My dear colleague, you said in your speech that someone might be saying that this strategy is just for the sake of strategy. So I think it should be pointed out that in fact this strategy is being brought perhaps too late, perhaps at the last minute because we in this area have a rather alarming situation, especially here in the center of Zagreb where at Ruđer Boskovic Institute in, I think, inadequate conditions we have stored currently nuclear waste. And apparently, this strategy is the first step in resolving this and the burning issue. We just have to deal with it. The strategy may even be late, it is necessary to continue to take not only a strategy but also other steps to address the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87784	The replica was to present Damir Cain. There's no answer. Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the Club of Representatives DC Martincevic, Malojevic, Petar Baranovic, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87785	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Deputy Minister. This debate will be rather brief because people who are trying to be responsible in life, and not only in politics, this is not particularly problematic. The problem is that for decades already as a society and civilization, we've been creating waste which is the theme of this strategy and this document, and so far we haven't found the right answers, and we've even shown an initiative to manage this waste. There is this waste in Croatia, we are all aware of it through the use for medical purposes and even in the military, as a consequence of byproducts, or as a consequence of technological processes in factories that were the backbone of the economy in the period from World War II to Homeland and in the area of the Republic of Croatia, certain categories and in terrible quantities. It's hundreds of thousands of cubic metres, it's about wastes that aren't benign at all, and it's about the fact that as a new economic general direction, the country that has accepted deindustriousisation and the transition to other types of economic activity actually has a logical need to resuscitate its space and finally manage the environment responsibly and as prescribed by the highest international standards. This strategy is based on article 54.zacon adopted by the Croatian Parliament last year, which is a follow-up to the 2009 strategy, which is unfortunately that the authors of this material have shown their weaknesses in practical application, and in fact the real truth is that perhaps today we would not be considering such documents that this is not being taken over as an obligation in negotiations with the EU. They might not even consider that there is no bilateral agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and neighbouring Slovenia on the disposal of radioactive waste from Krško Nuclear Power Plant, perhaps they would not consider forcing us to do so by international conventions on the management of these categories of waste and documents and standards that we have accepted as part of the international community, however. Bringing this problem into order, this topic in one country is a testimony on the attainment of civilization, on responsibility to future generations, on the final and responsible behaviour towards our neighbours and on politics should be such a question, on the issue of consensus, this issue should also be a question of whose application, application of guidelines and achievement of the objectives set by this strategy should not be the subject of political bickering, planting and any unnecessary tensions. For this reason we will certainly support the adoption of this strategy. For me as a man from the sea it is particularly important because of the part that is listed in the text itself, and it clearly mentions the locations and quantities of disputed materials lying along the Adriatic coast at the sites of former industrial plants in Kaštel and at other points along the Adriatic coast. If we want to deal with tourism, if we want to deal with more prosperous activities than... industry, then it is also a matter of practical approach to start solving this problem systematically without a strategic document that is in line with European standards. We can't even count on the availability of funding for such activities as a responsible political option for the club I belong to to support this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87786	Thank you, Your Honor. HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87787	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy, Mr. Director, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will also support the adoption of a strategy for the disposal of radioactive waste used and spent nuclear fuel for the reason that we hold that this strategy is one of the necessary steps in fulfilling not only the legal obligations that the Croatian Parliament has established by adopting the Law on Radiological Nuclear Safety, not only because the European Council Directive stipulates that the Republic of Croatia is bound by the obligation under the Directive on the safe disposal of fuel used and radioactive waste in its space to address the quality of the issue of the disposal of this type of waste, but because it is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to commit a trauma that has been unsettled for over 5 or 6 decades, which is to find a permanent solution to the disposal of radioactive waste and spent sources and spent nuclear fuel. We believe that this strategy is, in that sense, one of the necessary preconditions in order to make this obligation both legislative and real, realistic. Namely, as I have said for 60 years, this type of waste is created in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which is for some time worth millions and taken care of in the Institute of Medical Research. Later on, part of the radiological waste was taken care of at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute by 2009, just until the time the strategy that the then Croatian Government adopted in the framework of pre-accession negotiations for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership in the European Union was established, and the strategy envisaged that part of this radioactive waste created in the territory of the Republic of Croatia be taken care of in the institute. However, given the dissatisfaction of a large part of the Croatian public, and the administration of the institute at the time did not move forward with the implementation of these provisions prescribed by that strategy, and after that, I agree with the strategy further. Other than that, nuclear radioactive waste produced in medicine, science, etc. and which was largely taken care of I say in these two institutes, there is also the obligation of the Republic of Croatia, what my colleague Baranovic said earlier to edit, resuscitate the natural sites as already mentioned in Kašteli, Plomino and Kutini, which is a radioactive waste that is practically planned to resuscitate on site, with the clear financial cost of owners who created this radioactive waste, although the strategy itself is being questioned that it may be during that recovery and during that recovery, questionable who and in what way will reschedul, who will finance exactly the recovery of these natural waste disposals of slags that were byproducts in the technological process. What is also questionable, which seems to me that this strategy does not solve, is the question of the future of the disposal of radioactive waste generated by the work of Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Why am I saying that? Because this strategy, according to us in the HDZ Club, has not given answers, clear answers to how and how the Republic of Croatia will act after the unilateral Republic of Slovenia has determined that the part, which is half of the nuclear waste produced in Krško, will take care of itself in its own territory, which is practically coming out of some possible agreement on the joint supply of radioactive, or spent nuclear fuel produced in the Krško power plant. This is for the reason, Deputy Minister, that a month ago the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepted the report of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant in which the report was written that the Republic of Slovenia had decided first to take care of this radioactive waste on the one hand. On the other hand, the obligation arises, so for the Republic of Croatia to accept the waste in its space. And the third obligation stemming from this report is that the nuclear power plant has been given a conditional permit for 20 more years of work by Krško Nuclear Power Plant, which is all the new activities that I think this strategy has not foreseen until the end. Although we are bringing it in October 2014, and this report by the fund, which in a certain way opens up certain dubiosis according to this strategy, was adopted by the Government a month ago, it seems to me that this strategy should therefore have responded unequivocally to those settings that were defined by the report of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant’s decommissioning Fund, which, according to us in the HDZ Club, was not resolved until the end. Another important thing that just doesn't seem to be solved by this strategy. In its provisions, the strategy relates to the Programme of Spatial Arrangements of the Republic of Croatia, which is defined by the programme and which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 1999. The spatial arrangement programme envisioned that the Trade Mountain in Sisak-Moslavina County at the site of the Municipality of Dvor was a planned centre for the disposal of radiological waste, used sources and spent nuclear fuel. However, neither Sisak-Moslavina County nor the Municipality of Dvor has brought its spatial-planned documents into line with this Programme of Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia, and in this strategy it remains questionable whether and how the issue of Trade will be resolved. So, I believe that this strategy should have been determined that if we were to bring one principle document brought by the Croatian Parliament, and we know that this same Parliament had adopted a program of spatial planning 15 years ago, if we had come with another document to the Croatian Parliament, then it should have become more concrete, and not at the principle level to attach to that document, and then in a certain way to problem it. I think it is indeed one lack of this strategy, given that the strategy adopted in 2009 has practically given up on Trade Mountain because it has planned another location that neither the public nor the administration, as I said before... has accepted. So from all these documents, I must admit that I do not understand and that this strategy does not give us the answers to what is with Trade Mountain, whether the Trade Mountain will continue to be in all relevant documents. And the spatial planning program seems to me to be the most important document that defines the future center for the disposal of this kind of waste. Or this strategy gives up on him and what he will be, so the fate of that new center. According to us at the Croatian Democratic Community club and according to what we have heard on the committees that preceded this debate, I believe that, however, the Government of the Republic of Croatia remains at a location that has already been defined by the programme itself and this trail speaks of the need for communication with the local community, with the establishment of compensatory measures for the local community, on which the territory would be delayed by radioactive waste. I believe that this lack which makes this strategy truly too principal in the most important segment of determining the future location and the reason why it has not preceded a strategic environmental impact assessment as defined in Articles 63 and 73. Environmental protection laws. That what was right would have been done by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or that the Ministry of Environment and Nature insisted on the provision proposed by this Croatian Parliament itself that prior to each strategy whose realisation has implications for the environment and nature, a strategic environmental impact assessment should be made. I am also convinced at the Croatian Democratic Community club that we have made such a strategy that these issues that we are on, which I have opened to be resolved as the previous issue of the creation of the strategy itself. So, I don't see why the Ministry of Environment and Nature, why the Government of the Republic of Croatia missed this very important document which, whose realisation will nevertheless have numerous implications for the local community on whose territory this waste will eventually be taken care of if one provision had not then been respected that might resolve a number of dilemmas in the adoption of such a document. Furthermore, what is still missing from this strategy is insufficiently addressing and identifying the financial resources that will be monitored by the realisation of the strategy itself. Yesterday, when it came to another education strategy in the Republic of Croatia, my colleague Boris said that the Croatian Assembly had brought 159 development documents, i.e. a strategy, and that all 11 were done according to the criteria set out when the development documents such as this were adopted. So, like a strategy. I don't know if this test would go through with this strategy, given the fact that no financial resources have been prescribed until the end, or to be clear. The funding is approximately prescribed for that part of the strategy relating to the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krškom Nuclear Power Plant, because the Republic of Croatia has also formed a fund that collects funds from the Croatian electricity industry at an annual level of around 14.3m euros for the disposal of this waste that the Republic of Croatia must take from the nuclear power plant by 2025. But neither is the part relating to the construction of the center itself where the radioactive waste produced in medicine and science will be delayed by the military industry, nor the one relating to the recovery of natural dumps in Kaštel, Plomin and Kutina. It is therefore not until the end of this financial, overall financial amount that will be necessary to ensure that this strategy is implemented. I believe that the Government, i.e. the Resort Ministry, intended to define and determine until the end through the National Programme for the Implementation of the Strategy, which the Government is required under the Radiological Security Act by August next year and I believe that this document will be prescribed. But it would be better once we adopt this strategy which, I believe, agrees with me and the representatives of the Government rather principled document, that the document that follows from it, which is the National Programme for the implementation of this strategy also comes to the Croatian Parliament, rather than to be adopted at the level of the Government, and on a proposal from the Institute which is required under the law to draft this National Programme. Here's to the conclusion. So, despite these doubts, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this strategy, because it is, despite these numerous, not numerous but important dilemmas, one step towards realising the commitments that have been made before the Republic of Croatia for 60 years and have not been resolved. And on the other side of the obligations set out by the EU with this EURATOM Directive, which prescribes the obligation of national Member States to provide for this type of radioactive waste. We will support that, but I say there are still open issues, and when it comes to the work or the disposal of spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plant, I said in view of the report of the fund that the government is aware of how and how the neighbouring state acts. On the other hand, what is with the location of the centre of the Shop Gora, i.e. in the municipality of Dvor and whether it really is a final solution or not. And the third thing I said was that they weren't determined until the end of the finances, and they weren't small. At the moment alone, the Nuclear Power Plant Decommissioning Fund seems to me to be around 170m euros to ensure that the Republic of Croatia's commitment can be realised by the end of 2025. To date, the fund, I say, has allocated 177m euros in funds paid by Croatia's electricity industry. So here's Mr. Deputy, perhaps in your answer it would be good for you to answer some of these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87788	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Shantek has a replica of your exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87789	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Bačić, you are really right when you warn of the 1999 Trade Mountain, which is referred to at the state level by the 1999 Strategy for Spatial Planning so that it could be a potential nuclear waste disposal, so for this part for which the Republic of Croatia has obligations. I must remind you that the County Assembly of that year has unanimously rejected the location for several reasons when the spatial plan was adopted, and I must also remind myself that this area of Zrinska and Trade Mountain is the largest habitat in Europe. So the residents who live there have also established associations and cooperatives that try to brand exactly that honey that is derived from the pie chestnut. But also more important is another thing that I want to stress here that 10 days ago there was an earthquake with an epicenter on Zrinska Gora, so close to the Shop Mountain, and that part when the amendments were submitted because I was a representative of the County House and in 1999, and I submitted an amendment to the proposal for a spatial plan, we warned about the contradiction in the spatial plan because the Trade Mountain was a thorny area, and here, unfortunately, 50 days after that earthquake happened, we actually got confirmation of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87790	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87791	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with my colleague, Shantek, that this strategy, which I did in my opening speech and delivered, should in a certain way answer whether the Croatian government remains at the location of the Shop Mountain, which is identified by the problem of spatial planning. The more I am familiar with the allegations or facts that Mr Shantek has now stated that the Sisak-Moslavina County Assembly has unanimously rejected that location in my time, and not in its basic, and this is the spatial plan of the arrangement of Sisak-Moslavina County and not in the spatial plan of the Dvor municipality, this location is not in line with the highest spatial document in the Republic of Croatia. That's why I said, colleague Shantek, that a strategic assessment that would certainly include what you said about the poisoning, the sensitivity of the area at the location of the Shop Mountain, perhaps, might respond to a number of dubiosis when it comes to the Trade Mountain. Clearly, no local self-government unit is in the interest of delaying this radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, clearly out of fear of radiation and then clearly affecting the health of the local population. But I also said on behalf of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection that many countries, for example, France, which have significantly larger quantities of spent nuclear fuel knew how to solve it in quality. So what is missing, which is that we needed better public communication, especially with a local community whose space will eventually be dealt with and dealt with. Only if the government has no intention of exporting this kind of waste somewhere outside the Republic of Croatia, and for that I have no information.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87792	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87793	Dear colleague Bačić, you have practically analyzed this strategy. It seems to me that it's made so that at least it hurts, at least it causes polemics, problems. In my opinion, it can only be one initial document, although the question is being asked, and before we had strategies, they didn't come to life. So there's a serious problem. So, in my view, you have in some way pointed out that there is a need in this strategy to define precisely both that financial element and the security element and the location element which the strategy did not even indicate. And there is a problem in my opinion, especially that this strategy needs to be brought into line as you said with Croatia's spatial planning programme. When you ask any of our county, of course no one will want to store either natural radioactive waste or waste from Krško's nuke. However, this strategy really needs to be given firm, clear, safe elements of what we want. Unfortunately, neither this security, nor this financial, nor this location element is sufficiently shown in the strategy itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87794	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87795	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues of the Scare-Ozbolt as you yourself said a document that hurts the least because it doesn't go to the end in determining what it should be brought in for. He is principled. I understand the government and the resolution ministry that the problem that needs to be solved and which may have already been needed before, but in a legal sense still remains a year of trying to extend that year when it is necessary to implement and bring about a national programme. Therefore, when the national implementation programme of this strategy is established, there will no longer be this environment and such principle provisions, it will already need to be made clear in concrete terms what, as well as how. Perhaps it would have been better if this strategy had been accompanied by a parallel and a national programme of its implementation because then this Assembly could indeed have been valid, reasoned on the basis of all indicators to discuss this strategy. This is how we need her, I think, and we need to support her because she's still going one step further but we're not much smarter if I can say that to her than we were without her. It certainly needs to be supported and I think that the step forward and determines certain principles, regulations or definitions of the existing state, determines certain methods but what is most interesting and tickles the Croatian public, we failed to do with this strategy. I'm saying, I understand the government, it's not easy, but slowly the clock is ticking, and we're gonna need that cake to bite as hard as it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87796	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87797	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Bačić, you were talking about radioactive waste or spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plant. And you said that we no longer have obligations to that part that belongs to Slovenia, it is not true. In fact, Slovenians held a referendum in which they clearly and loudly said not to store radioactive waste from Krško Nuclear Power Plant, or spent fuel on the territory of Slovenia, no, a referendum was carried out. Secondly, I see you've spoken, and even advocated it's a plan from your government's time as a location for building a nuclear waste warehouse. As counterpart Shantek said, therefore, these are rare, really rare locations where the whole of Zrinska Gora, and the Shop Mountain is part of Zrinska Mountain covers the wild chestnut forest, not the pithog as Shantek said, the pies grow in parks and are not edible, this is wild chestnut and wild chestnut pasta. And besides that, in the 16th century, the Turks tried to take Zrin Mountain and Zrin cities, the hard Cities Zrin, Pedalj, Iron, and we know about Iron as Croatian Alamo, now any of these governments will do that by actually building such a thing, if it comes to the Trade Mountain, why I am not in favour and opposed fiercely, as well as Sisak-Moslavina County, there will be the destruction of all that and the history of that end, and so there are no inhabitants there almost a small number. In addition, you know of an earthquake that was some day of 3.9 degrees per Richter, how we're going to build in the thorny area a nuclear waste storage site, when Zrinska gora is indeed a thorny area. How it occurred to someone that they were building this on the Mount of Zrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87798	Thank you very much. Time's up. Replication response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87799	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Grubisic, you have completely missed the line. You're replicating something you wanted me to say, not what I said. So, I am, first of all, not true, the Republic of Slovenia has an obligation to care for one half of the spent nuclear fuel produced by the work of Krško Nuclear Power Plant, the second half of which has a Republic of Croatia. I said that the funding fund for the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant met the government with its September report this year that the Republic of Slovenia, at least so I read, had made a unilateral decision that it would take over its part of the "cookie" part of its obligation on its own territory. Thus, by such a decision, the Republic of Croatia can no longer expect joint or difficult to expect joint resolution of this waste with the Republic of Slovenia and must access the construction of its own disposal centre and this type of waste. And the other thing, I didn't say that I supported the Trade Mountain, but that the Trade Mountain was identified as a location by a spatial arrangement program 15 years ago, that this document doesn't see whether the Government... at that point, that it's a planned location, or it's giving up and planning a new one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if it were better then in that sense for the government to be absolutely clear, that it had created another document that might have declared the Trade Mountain inappropriate, what Mr. Shantek was just saying, to take care of this waste. So you're not replicating me, you're replicating something that you wanted me to say and I didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87800	Thank you very much. I continue to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak. If you have a reluctance of some MPs, coffee is relatively cheap.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87801	Thank you, Mr. President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Labour Party will support the strategy for the disposal of radioactive waste from used sources and spent nuclear fuel. It is not disputed that the Republic of Croatia has an obligation to provide radioactive waste resulting from the application of... radiation in medicine, industry, science, military, public use and there should be nothing controversial. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our biggest problem is the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The facilities in which radioactive waste has been stored temporarily in Croatia are closed, it is about 50 metres of cubic, but which is in the heart of Zagreb and these are reasons and also a legal obligation that we should establish a central storage of radioactive waste, is it mandatory and as a permanent solution. I'll just remind you of one warning incident that took place last year when cleanliness workers were almost irradiated when they unloaded the garbage truck to a dump in Jakushevec. In fact, because of their carelessness and sloppyness, workers didn't even know that they were transporting radioactive material in the truck until the alarm sounded on Jakushevec. That it was really until the incident was confirmed by the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security in February of last year. At that time, the civil service officer found that the radiation in the truck was increased and the professional service excluded that radioactive material and fortunately there was no greater danger to the health of workers and the environment, and there could have been wherever and where else due to the irresponsible behaviour of individuals. According to some available information, the waste was from a Zagreb hospital where it was prematurely deposited in municipal waste. It's used in diagnostics, nuclear-medical procedures. This kind of case only alerts us to the necessity of managing concerns, the safety of citizens, the preservation of the environment, but also negligence that can sometimes have great consequences for the citizens. We can only think of certain disasters such as Chernobyl and Fukushima after a natural disaster, and the consequences that followed. After that, it is clear that many countries have decided to go into the process of closing nuclear power plants, and the Krško nuclear power plant, there are 40 kilometers from Zagreb, and in case of a disaster it would be a danger to the citizens of Zagreb and a large part of Croatia. Although we cannot escape from our obligations, which is to use electricity from the Krško nuclear power plant and that we are half the property, it is clear that it is also the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to take care of half of the radioactive waste currently in Krško and clearly that we need to take care and take care of the decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant. The Republic of Slovenia has committed itself by contract with the Republic of Slovenia to regulate status and other legal relations related to the investment, exploitation and decommissioning of nuclear Krško. To that end, a strategy was developed to provide radioactive waste spent nuclear fuel in 2009, and we heard today it has never been published and it has only served as some kind of document regarding Croatia's entry into the EU. It's just about us being inconsistencies sometimes, running away from our responsibilities. On this issue, we have done almost nothing, and clearly there is nothing left to do but to bring back another strategy now, but that is the question that as certain governments change, it is always beginning over and it is part of an irresponsible relationship, especially when it comes to such important issues and the issue of the security of citizens and the future of the next generations. So I have to ask myself if this strategy is going to solve these problems too or if it's just going to be a letter on paper, I hope it won't, that it will be a good basis that will bring in some other documents that you really need to solve this problem. Croatia has an obligation to radioactive waste, spent nuclear fuel... the Krško nuclear power plant which has a regular age until 2023, which means another 9 years or is talked about an extended century until 2043, which means another 29 years. I am afraid that this extended century for safety reasons will hardly be acceptable and that Croatia needs to be done much more and as soon as possible to address this issue, to raise the issue of decommissioning Krško nuclear power plant because we have the obligation to take over from 2023 to 2025 half of the nuclear radioactive waste plant and half of the spent nuclear fuel from the location of Krško nuclear power plant. Such obligations make it clear to Slovenia as well. We are fortunate that this radioactive waste is not currently in our territory, but we must look for a solution because it is clear that even Slovenians are not satisfied that it would be a lasting solution to be in their area. There is therefore no doubt and we agree that the purpose of the strategy should be targets, guidelines for the construction of the national system, the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. In addition, we have three locations in Croatia with natural radioactive materials that must be controlled, such as Plomin, Kaštel Sučurac and Kutina. In the first two cases, it is ash and slags produced by coal combustion with increased uranium and radio concentrations, and in the case of a location in Kutina, it is a plaster produced by the processing of phosphate ore into fertilisers, where the concentration of radio produced by the decay of uranium is increased. The strategy itself sets short-term targets for 2 years, medium-term targets for 10 years and long-term objectives. I hope that what is stated, and today it has been about this speech, that it is very important that the public participates in the search for a final solution regarding the disposal of radioactive waste, spent nuclear fuel, and I hope that this solution is not predetermined, and the strategy that we bring only as a cover of something, but that within that, an effective public debate and the public will be implemented with all the facts. When the issue of care is then it is very in some way modestly listed through three points and I wonder which, on the basis of such three points of the middle, would want to take care of certain waste in their space or somewhere in their vicinity, and I think that there should be much more concrete solutions to this other part of which I was saying that it is very important to include the public about finding a final solution. Furthermore, the same talk was here that Croatia had set up a fund for financing, decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste from Krško Nuclear Power Plant, that the activity of the fund included tasks related to the collection, preservation and increase of the value of funding, the production of audits and implementation of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant decommissioning programme and the disposal of radioactive waste spent nuclear fuel. Fund funds are used for the design and revision of the programme, and an audit has already been carried out, and another audit has been carried out, but this second revision has not finally been accepted. So the question arises whether this strategy will be something else when we finally accept that revision is that it must agree clearly with Slovenia. Payments for that part of the fund are the obligations of Croatia's electricity industry of 14.25m euros per year. The funds are paid three months until the end of the work of Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the planned amount. It should be somewhere related to the decommissioning of around 280m euros on the Croatian side, as well as on the Slovenian side. We have clearly committed ourselves to the life span of Krško Nuclear Power Plant that, no later than two years after the deadline, we will end up taking over and moving radioactive waste from the location of Krško Nuclear Power Plant and certainly half of it, what I said was half the obligation of Croatia, and half of it is Slovenia. If that agreement is not reached by the parties alone, each will bear the costs of all those programme implementation activities. Therefore, the question arises whether Croatia will be able to fulfil the obligations arising from the contract or no later than two years after the end of the regular life council of Krško Nuclear Power Plant and end up taking and delivering radioactive waste from that location. And what I've said is a further extension of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant for its own safety and its citizens. So we need to have a strategy, we need to take care of radioactive waste, and we need to have documents that will certainly serve that purpose if the strategy has to be just an initial document, and the rest of it has to be more precise and qualityd. We know that the best way to do this is when nuclear waste should not be deposited in its space, it would be easier if we could deliver it into space and deposit it there and then solve their problems, but for that, Croatia neither has the possibility of technical or financial. Of course, there is also a certain other option that is not mentioned in the strategy, which is the question whether, in some other areas, if certain countries want to introduce this nuclear waste would not be one specific solution, not to take care of it in this area, but clearly, there is also a need to make certain elaborates and certain bases and then bring clearly the most qualitative solution for us but also for future generations to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87802	Thank you, too. It is next to the HNS club in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Dragutin Glava. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87803	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are discussing a strategy for the disposal of radioactive waste used sources of spent nuclear fuel, and the content of which is derived from the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act. In fact, it is about trying again to determine how, where and under what conditions radioactive waste and related materials will be taken care of. Surely this matter is one of the ones that in public causes doubt and negative perception. For this reason, this is one of the main reasons why the plans and documents adopted so far in this sector have not been revived in practice. Now we have European regulations before us, and we have signed contracts and documents that determine our obligations. According to Directive 2011/70, Member States are obliged to present by 2015 national programmes to indicate when, where and how they will manage spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste using the highest safety standards. That is why this proposed strategy is, in fact, the first step towards establishing a national programme. The Republic of Croatia has an obligation to provide radioactive waste and used sources of ionising radiation produced during the past 60 years through the use of ionising radiation sources and in medicine, industry, science, military and public use, it has the obligation to resuscitate sites where natural radioactive materials are located, and to take over half of the radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel stored in Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Obligations arising from the work of the Nuclear Power Plant are regulated by contracts and agreements with Slovenia. The fulfilment of these obligations as well as the definition of guidelines and targets for the recovery of sites with natural radioactive materials is, in fact, the mission of this strategy. The implementation itself, the definition of guidelines and objectives will have to be elaborated in detail in the relevant national programme for the implementation of the strategy within the deadline provided for by law and directive and with clear indications that as soon as possible, and in order to avoid the transfer of the burden of disposal and disposal as said by the Deputy Minister to future generations. One of the most important starting points of the strategy is the need to establish a Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the need to develop a comprehensive programme for the recovery of locations containing natural radioactive materials and the recovery of locations where radioactive waste is located. This management of radioactive waste, used sources and spent nuclear fuel must be organised in a way that ensures the protection of individuals, society and the environment against the harmful effects of ionising radiation, and the cost of disposal should be borne by those who caused them. In this respect, any possible prevention must be undertaken to prevent exceptional events which may occur in order to carry out the activities of the disposal of radioactive waste, used sources and spent nuclear fuel. The proposal for a strategy lists the current form of care, which consisted of temporary storage in certain warehouses that are listed in this strategy, with all of the necessary and all of the quantities of waste recorded and the problems all of which are involved in this process. I will mention the warehouses of the Institute of Medical Research and Medicine and the Ruđer Boskovic Institute. Furthermore, there are three locations where natural radioactive materials are found. It's Plomin, Kaštel Sucurac and Kutina. The proposal for a strategy sets out exactly the approximate amount of waste per location. And finally, there is the location of Krško Nuclear Power Plant. All these locations the Republic of Croatia is required technologically in a safe, acceptable environment and an organisationally efficient way to be taken care of. In order to meet these obligations, the Croatian Strategy provides for the establishment of a national system for the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel that will be able to be realised through short-term targets up to 2 years, medium-term ones covering up to 10 years of age and long-term objectives through continued radiological surveillance of locations and disposal related to Krško Nuclear Power Plant, as mentioned by counterpart Bačić. The strategy also established the allocation of the responsibilities of all participants in the process of providing and coordinating the competent authorities of the state administration and the responsibilities of the Central Storage Office. As regards the provision of funds and the financing of the objectives set out in this strategy, the dedicated fund and the state budget shall be listed. Finally, the strategy states what is very important, the obligation to inform the public about the proposed plans for the disposal of radioactive waste, spent nuclear fuel and used sources of ionising radiation, and the interested public must be effectively involved in the decision-making process in accordance with Article 10 of Directive 2011/70, which means that all the risks that individual care projects pose in a transparent manner in the local community, as well as possible compensation and compensation for the benefit of that community, are presented in a transparent manner. Finally, we will support the adoption of the Strategy for Radioactive Waste, Used Sources and Exhausted Nuclear Fuel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87804	Thank you very much, dear colleague. HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87805	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, although he's not here, with an assistant or an associate. This is not a strategy for the management of radioactive waste and used resources and spent nuclear waste, this is a proposal for a strategy, which is a pre-phase for the adoption of a strategy. At least that's how I figured it out according to this title. And if we had a school strategy yesterday, education, which was already in the second reading, and for the first time we saw it on the benches. It is good to have a proposal like this, so that we can discuss this proposal before the strategy is adopted on the basis of this proposal. It seems to me that when I listen a little better and when I read and when I enter matter deeper, it is actually a quiet lobbying for something that is not really necessary for Croatia, but it is perhaps necessary in a smaller scale than what is actually a problem for the Republic of Croatia. It would be said, as I responded in a replica to the Trade Mountain, I listen to the news, I count the steps of one song. And what does that mean? Croatian power plant HEP for research in connection, Krško Nuclear power plant is also in the system since half of Slovenia, half of Croatia is for research into the disposal of spent nuclear fuel, and here's to say '95. A year, '94. Five million kuna years, '95. Ten million kuna years, '96. 16 and a half million kuna, '97. 24 million kuna. Let's add it all up and later we still have the cost of researching the location for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel in Krško. Who gives money for the part or the HEP sector that investigates it? So give Croatian consumers, those who pay for electricity. How much is this costing Croatian electricity consumers, Croatian citizens and the economy very much. I don't know exactly the data for later years on the spending of these funds, but we still do, even though we're raising that kind of resources, we don't actually have any concrete solution to that regarding the disposal of spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plant. It is said here and Mr. Bacic spoke of Slovenia being obliged to take care of half and half of us. I do not deny what Mr Bačić said, but we need to know that the Slovenians carried out a referendum in their country and that the citizens of Slovenia clearly said that they did not want any nuclear waste storage on the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the source, or used nuclear fuel in their territory. Croatia based, of course, although Slovenia in the EU is also the cornerstone of the directive and I don't know what it should build storage facilities with a total volume of 72000 cubic metres was in one warehouse, so either main or four smaller. And do you know how much radioactive waste is produced by Croatia without Krško Nuclear Power Plant? 58 cubic meters. So when you take that the volume of planned warehouses of radioactive waste, the source of fuel used is 72000 cubic meters, then it would take 1400 years for us to fill that warehouse. Or is it an investment of one of these development investments of this government to build a nuclear warehouse on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and then to employ 8 security guards to guard this warehouse? Perhaps it is one of the good investments of this government to store in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We know that Dinar mountain and the whole of Dalmatia is a very thorny area, limestone and everything else, we know that earthquakes occur on the Delje mountain and on the Papuk and in the Zrinska mountain area, so parts of Zrinska gora as someone calls it to hide, that it is not exactly Zrinska whether it is a memory of our hero, our and Hungarian hero Nikola Zrinski. We're not talking about who's going into the debate right now, we're talking about the Trade Mountain. In Croatia, therefore, a negligible amount of radioactive waste of 52 cubic metres without Krško Nuclear Power Plant. So we're wondering if it's necessary to build a central disposal of radioactive waste where there's been attempts to place a location of 72000 cubic metres of radioactive waste storage in the county's spatial plans, in fact, the question is how much is needed. Especially how much money it takes to find such a place in Croatia. Disposal of the radioactive waste of Krško Nuclear Power Plant or used nuclear fuel as it is said in fact, given the complications I would not enter between Slovenia and Croatia about the supply of electricity, and then the request of Slovenia because Croatia does not want to receive that radioactive waste to stop the supply of electricity to Croatia. And that's what it was, remember how it was at the time. So, by the end of the working century, he was still extended to the Krško Nuclear Power Plant to produce 6,000 cubic metres of radioactive waste. So, even if that power plant worked 500 years, it wouldn't fill this planned warehouse in Croatia. What does that mean when, should I say, in a conveyed meaning? Are we gonna get up and... to say to the medical dictionary and to the warehouse of radioactive waste perhaps to the whole of Europe, the European Union, if it is so much of a storage space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] About the fact that the warehouse of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuels should be so large and located on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and no county wants it for understandable reasons, we will not, here we have already said in replicas of which it also says that this government is in its investment cycle of some kind, so it puts and strongly pushes the thermal power plant on coal in the plates in the Green Valley, the ecologically still preserved but that's what the thermo power plant wants in Ploče. We know that there are heavy metals in the coal and even traces of radioactive substances, and that like Plomin, such substances are also listed here in the quantities that exist in Plomin and since which year there is but another block in Plomin and another block in Ploča and perhaps faster to fill these warehouses of radioactive waste in Croatia. That is why I said at the beginning of my debate that this seems to me, and through the EU directive, although we have no markings because it is not a legal proposal, is it like the European laws we apply here, and there is no mark, that this is actually hidden or hidden silent lobbying for this thing that should be built in Croatia. Where is nuclear waste or radioactive waste now, and how long is the medium time of its decomposition? What is the danger of this waste in places where it is now located? Starting with the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, starting with our hospitals using radioactive substances in the diagnostics and in the therapy of a certain course. We have various cobalt heads, etc. Where are they now and what is the danger now in the Republic of Croatia by the population who lives nearby or I won't say close to the Republic of Croatia? Of course, the HDSSB club and I personally do not object to this waste being so safe, it is primarily safety and waterways and everything else, so that it is completely safe but completely transparent, to be absolutely clear and to be explained to all residents in the Republic. This adoption, therefore, of the strategy in which it is described here, describes the long-term, pardoned short-term, medium-term and long-term objectives. So it says in the short term that the goal is to establish a central storage facility for institutional radioactive waste and used resources within 2 years. What used sources? Sources or used nuclear fuel? And within two years. And we already have a state of 23 years and still no sign of a voice. Nor in spatial plans, the county has any indication of where it might be. Maybe on the Papuk? Although Papuk was declared a park of nature, there are certain rumors that the former army and some other factors were burying military radioactive waste on the Papuk. And there are JNA warehouses, etc., which have been partially or suspiciously examined and only found that there are 15 times more than one dose of heavy metals, arsenics, cadmium, lead and live byproducts that are otherwise by-products in the decay of radioactive matter. Because of this and because of our desire to arrange this as it is, but also because of doubts, we can find it difficult to propose this strategy. I think that we should talk a lot more about this and put in place some guidelines on this strategy that will probably be proposed again after this proposal will also be a strategy in which all of this should be taken into account. And not as secret as it was some kind of 2009 strategy, but a clear and loud conversation, not to hide the facts and some are hidden from the facts of the people, from the citizens, but from us MPs. What's going on, what's going on with this plan in the Republic of Croatia and whether we're going to have traces of poor uranium both in BiH and Serbia after the war and the bombing from some '95s. What year was it, that we had forests that were completely dried up, that we had sources with traces of these, not traces but 15 times or 20 times the concentrations of heavy metals, etc. Have we explored all this together, have we taken all the measures, above all, to diagnose these places? All we mention here is Plomin, there's a reference to Kutina and there's a reference to Kaštela, right? But not a word about the Papuk, and we've talked a lot about the Trade Mount. Therefore, the HDSSB club will be restrained in connection with this strategy proposal or if we reverse the strategic proposal, however you wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87806	Thank you, too. By the way, I would like to tell you the honourable representative of the strategy's proposal is in line with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The adoption of the strategy is in part and jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament, and the proposal was drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That is why the proposal came, not a strategy in the Croatian Parliament as other acts, proposals, final proposals, etc. come. Your exposure has caused six MPs to say in the replica what they think of it. The first is your colleague Igor Češek, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87807	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Grubisic, you have touched on extremely important topics for residents and Virovitica-Podravska County, as well as Požeko-Slavonski, in your debate. You were talking about Papuk Nature Park. Yes, the Papuk Nature Park was declared in 1999 but before the Park of Nature was declared there were some indications that it should serve as a landfill of radioactive waste. However, it did not happen by declaring nature parks. But what's very significant, you mentioned yourself, is the appearance of heavy metals in the flesh of savages. They are not up to 15% higher than usual but up to 30% higher than the usual ones and people in the area are asking the question as to how this is possible. Even for a while, an eco-station of Virovitica-Podravska County, which discussed the issue, was even being debated. And they sent nature park rangers Papuk to tour the terrain and determine their condition. Rangers found the hidden shelters of the former JNA, but they were empty. However, the real question is whether there are hidden radioactive waste somewhere. It's not a problem in those former military shelters, it's easy to correct, but according to locals, they've become some kind of work that was done at two o'clock in the morning, burying, diving, heavy machinery was present. We still don't have an answer to those questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87808	Honorable representative Kresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87809	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, people from Slavonia and Baranja often know and wonder that in Croatia he does not know what the right hand is doing and vice versa. But when we look at the amount projected where the amount of waste will be taken care of, then one big question in our head for people from Slavonia and Baranja, so it doesn't seem like the construction of the Krško nuclear power plant that we have, a new nuclear power plant called Erdut? This has been discussed on several occasions, but it seems that this information is not in the Croatian Parliament but is first discussed and a strategy on the amount of waste management is adopted. Croatia focused on waste instead of focusing on building water stairs, exploiting water potentials, and we can pay Slovenians to take care of the waste that is from Krško Nuclear Power Plant.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87810	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87811	Yes, colleagues, Slavonia is 13 pigs to this government as well as the one before, however, it is all the same, both HDZ and SDP. So, the Erdut nuclear power plant was also a sign and a word, but here we can only guess what would happen, because if I said there was a storage facility, centrally, centrally as it likes to say this government, centrally to say one minister. So, out of 72 thousand cubic metres, I wonder why so much storage is when the quantities of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuels would be enough now if we had that warehouse for 500 years, and we have sources and Europe insists on alternative sources, hydropower and all others. In Slavonia it is also very easy to apply these, both the water staircase and the Drago, and also the Sava, and that was the case, so also in the south of Slavonia, and in the north of Slavonia, but obviously it does not enter. To them, they insist, this government is building a thermal power plant on coal, so the fuel of the 19th century, the 19th century, we know Birmingham as the rest of them looked, Dortmund and the others, therefore, and so on in the plates. Interesting, or the use of gas from the Adriatic Sea to destroy our own tourism. That's terrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87812	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Drazenko Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87813	Thank you. Dear colleague, you have in your debate implied that the Government of the Republic of Croatia could have the intention of making this strategy out of Croatia as you said the nuclear, European nuclear waste clan. As you have read this Strategy quite clearly, you certainly know that there is a back-up legal ban on the entry of any nuclear waste into Croatia and any initiative to import nuclear waste must pass through us, no government can introduce a blanket or gram of nuclear waste through this House. You know that, but I believe you're assuming that maybe someone who listens to this debate doesn't know. I really don't know what you'd call that implication without being held in the frames of decency. Other things you pointed to, and I also don't know what you'd call it if I were to stick to the frameworks of decency, because every responsible government, every responsible man must strive and predict solutions and for the worst, the worst solution. The current very real solution is that the Slovenians will not want to take our half of the nuclear waste. You tell me how you can handle it, so you can handle that half of the nuclear waste in case the Slovenians don't want to take that half. We're gonna take them to Chad, is that ethical, the ones out there who don't know anything about it? Let's pay some local leader there and get them into it, is that a solution? How are you gonna handle this? We can't eat it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87814	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87815	Here, thank you very much. Comrade Pandek, you have now completely convinced me that you are secretly preparing a nuclear power plant in Erdu, because only that nuclear, new nuclear power plant together with our work of used nuclear fuel in Krško, and if you say it is forbidden to import, so why import nuclear waste from Slovenia? It's like an international agreement, right? But is Slovenia obliged by this same agreement when the Krško Nuclear Power Plant was built to build two nuclear power plants in Croatia and to give $600 million, then there was no euro when it was signed, $600 million should be given by the contract to build a power plant in Croatia. Unfortunately, no one mentions it. This government that... the dot doesn't apply to it, and the warehouse of 72 thousand cubic metres obviously implies thinking that it would be this very government to build a nuclear lobby that I said at first that this was a quiet lobbying, to build instead of a water escape, a new nuclear power plant, right in Slavonia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I guess you're counting on Slavonia to relax the population and everyone else, and then here's what you want in the wild because our villages let go as you know. In addition, both Bosnia and Herzegovina has a law prohibiting imports of radioactive waste. And do you know what's going on out there under cover of night, out of the public eye, and there's evidence of what's going on out there? I fear a policy like this, in which the people have lost confidence, and it is known why, as well as politics in BiH, is playing. Same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87816	Honorable representative, Ivan Shantek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87817	Thank you. Well, fellow Grubisic, you're absolutely right when you point to those huge money, those huge millions of kunas that were spent to examine the location for the nuclear waste disposal site and imagine what they chose, they proposed, in the spatial plan of the Trade Mountain. The trade mountain, we know it's part... up there, but that's what's officially called, so I'm going to keep using that termology. Namely, when submitting the amendments to the county home in '99. For years, I've taken advantage of those arguments because it all points to the fact that it's been a bit of a shift. So, 72 thousand spatial meters is a huge warehouse and is not acceptable to be, and there is no need for Croatia for such a warehouse. However, just during this debate it reminded me to the 80s because I then got a job in '84. in Karlovac... and there was a large turbine factory there because the plan of the former Yugoslavia was to build nuclear power plants, nuclear plants in the former Yugoslavia, and I think that it was actually, in fact, that this money was broken down, these millions because I feel that somehow it was simply from those spatial plans of the former Yugoslavia and that Trade Mountain had simply been copied. The second thing, a very current topic in Sisak-Moslavina County, is that it is said that in the area of the Sisak Ironworks, the waste plant is being built. So Sisak or Sisak-Moslavina County cannot allow it to be a dump for all kinds of waste that the rest of Croatia does not want. And the third thing I want to tell you here, that's that I checked on the Internet, I said well, the area of... the largest European habitat of the pithomic chestnut, the pithomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87818	Thank you very much. That's right, pitomatous chestnut. That's right. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87819	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, we're going to have to go to Costa Rica together, which is named for chestnuts, chestnuts, in Old Slavenian, old Croatian, in chestnuts, and we're going to ask people if it's pietious or wild, but it's so irrelevant, we're actually thinking about the same thing. Here, I'm a very peaceful Mr. Shantek about it, and if people say pitomatous, wild, it doesn't matter. But what I wanted to say to the first part of your replica, which is the Trade Mountain or the Zrin Mountain, the location in which you persist, almost in the plans of all these governments, I don't know if it's even known to people where it should actually be, what is the exact location of the building of the nuclear waste central warehouse in the trades? Trade, Gagie, Iron,..., etc., and other places, Chamber, etc. But it seems to me that this would be a good suggestion to this government since they don't know our history, perhaps in those mines where Ban Nikola Zrinski has gold mines, pardons, silver and some more metals and where the first Croatian money called Banovac, a silver coin, is named after the Ban Niko Zrinski. Well, there's these mines, you dig up, maybe here's some concrete, and here it is, great.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87820	Dear Representative, Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87821	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Grubisic, you said how much HEP stands out for the disposal of radioactive waste at the annual level, not to repeat what you said and you asked the question who paid it, you said Croatian citizens. I agree with that claim, but as we talk in some way and about the local problem, I'll use it to say who else pays and how. Namely, by the government's regulation on hydrocarbon exploitation, you know that a new model has been agreed, in which way, but another one... is agreed. Exploitation of hydrocarbons, the largest amounts are exploited along the area where I come from, from Podravina County, from Podravina and in that part, so first, the ratio is what it is, but secondly, HEP has got a preferential price of gas, 1.73. We get, of course, units of local self-government we get less, we get less, of course, and it goes on to the damage and quality of life and for kindergartens and for everything else, but look at the wells we have left with whom every little... which is being delayed and at what time. That's certainly what every little bit is up to date, a very important question. And if we don't talk about those harmful moments, the sulfur doesn't matter anymore, it's constant in that atmosphere, that we're not talking about living and all the harmful elements that come into that exploitation into the environment and, of course, they can cause the very harmful consequences that you're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87822	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87823	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Milinkovic, I am very pleased, and a colleague of mine, that my debate has caused a series of reactions, i.e. a replica to this and everyone from their point of view, has something to say since it is about our skin, all of us and overall, to say, a state of health in the Republic of Croatia, not only people, but also flora and fauna in the Republic of Croatia. I was quoting a copy of an article in the newspaper that accurately states consumption, so the journalist is also responsible for the information he broadcasts to the public, how much money was in '94, '95, '96. And '97. He spent HEP on research where it could be a warehouse of radioactive waste, but we have no data, neither did he write about the other years, and then I will ask the question through the President of the Croatian Parliament, so I will ask the question no Mr. Koračević might explain it very professionally to me, but I don't know who the director of Croatia's electricity company, HEP how much total money since '93, '94 spent on this research until 2014 and who paid for it, and you know you told me a part of who paid?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87824	The last replica of your presentation, the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87825	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome Deputy Minister, Mr. Director and colleague Bora. I wanted to replicate an explanation for these means you said were invested in, I didn't understand you. And I come from Kaštela that's one of these locations that's been problematic since the '47s when the thermal power plant was in the factory just like a factory plant, so there's about 320 thousand feet of cubic material, about 10 thousand cubic meters have been rescheduled for some fifty years where it didn't even know. There happened to be a team from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering with Geiger's counter and some radioactivity was discovered there, and for years it's been spread across the sea and in the field of Castelan and now some of the funds have been invested very badly over the past 20 years. The population paid a large tax there because the number of cancer deaths is equal to the millionth city, and there are 40,000 inhabitants. I am not satisfied with these objectives that I have also talked about on the board about the short- and long-term objectives that are in this strategy because they only predict there maximum control over that location, which is directly a particle by the sea, one attractive particle and tragedy is for tourism and all that. At the time of the 1970s, when one of our residents who was also a colonel of the former military spoke about it, they wanted to shut him down because it affects tourism. So there's one big problem and unfortunately this strategy won't solve anything just surveillance if it doesn't get solved there, if only 10 thousand squares are recovered, 300 thousand squares are still open, still unscheduledly still that ash flies all over the place. So this money and this strategy should, in other words, be resolved by moving it from that area and by investing more significant funds on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87826	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87827	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Sanader here is how I said every end almost every end, we talked about Slavonia me and Kreso and Mr. Češek about Papuk and about secret radioactive pollution or heavy metals mainly in the area of Kamenska on the Papuk which belongs to Požeko-Slavon County so that we don't forget her too. So what's in Castles you have is certainly better information than me, but it's certainly a problem that's also somehow standing, I won't say it's being covered up, but that's how it stands without a solution. It's said to be controlled, how you get Geiger's counter and measure the concentration of radioactive particles or counter count how many are there. And there's a half-life of decay or a time of total decomposition and only to be determined that it's decomposing and that's how it stands. I'm about to sort of get rid of all that. You said I just didn't know if you were talking in square meters or cubic meters, it's really a huge amount, but it seems to me that when we talk about matter that's out there about metals and radioactivity, it's a little bit less than I'm the radioactive waste that's from Juvanil as it was called, sort of. So that should take care of it the way you in the county are, and that you have certain plans of the County of Split-Dalmatia County, as well as the Municipality of Kaštela. But without the help of the state, it will not go so easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87828	On behalf of SDP representative Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87829	Thank you. Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, Director, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing a strategy for the disposal of radioactive waste used sources of spent nuclear waste. This proposal for a strategy was drawn up in accordance with the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act adopted at the end of last year. Management of radioactive waste is a challenge for all EU members as well as for our country, and in particular highly radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. That is why the Council adopted Directive 2011/70/Euratom establishing Community frameworks for responsible and safe disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste. This Directive requires EU Member States to present national programmes to indicate when, where and how nuclear fuel used and radioactive waste will be disposed of. The highest standards must be applied during care to avoid imposing unnecessary burdens on new generations. The first step in establishing a national programme for the development of this strategy, i.e. after the adoption of the strategy, will be to develop a national programme for the implementation of the strategy, which is also in line with the law already mentioned. The Republic of Croatia has an obligation to take care of radioactive waste used sources of ionising radiation produced by 60 years of ionising radiation in medicine, industry, science and military and public use. The facilities in which the waste in question has been temporarily stored have been closed and central storage of radioactive waste must be established as soon as possible. Furthermore, by contract between our Government and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia we are required to physically take over and take care of half of the radioactive waste of spent nuclear fuel stored in Krško Nuclear Power Plant. In order to meet the commitments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2009, it developed a strategy for the disposal of radioactive waste used nuclear waste, which was also one of the obligations under the accession negotiations for Croatia's accession to the EU. Unfortunately, nothing has been resolved in the same way, and in the meantime the said 2011 Directive was adopted on the basis of a law that precedes the new proposal for a strategy that we are now discussing. This strategy will also define guidelines and objectives for the disposal of radioactive waste, used sources and spent nuclear fuel, as well as the recovery and location with natural radioactive material. They must be so defined as to ensure the protection of individuals, society and the environment. The implementation of established guidelines and objectives will be elaborated in detail in the national programme. It will define a legal framework for the safe and effective disposal of radioactive waste, spent nuclear fuel and for the repair of locations with natural radioactive materials. Due to the lack of a systematic approach to solving this obligation or problem, but also to establishing the highest standards, especially in terms of what we will leave to future generations, the SDP Club will support the proposal for a strategy for the disposal of radioactive waste, used sources and spent nuclear fuel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87830	We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Mirela Holly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87831	Thank you, dear vice president. Well, at the very beginning, I would like to say that I will support this proposal of the strategy and I would like to stress that I believe that we are very late discussing this document. It is, in fact, the obligation of the responsible countries to ensure all conditions for quality management and storage of radioactive waste, which is regardless of the fact that we were obliged to conclude Chapter 15 of the negotiations with the European Union, in fact to provide such a location. To this day, we do not have such a location and at this point, radioactive waste is being stored in the least acceptable location, which is the centre of Zagreb and Ruđer Boskovic Institute, which is a completely unacceptable situation. I would like to remind you that by the 2002 agreement, Croatia has committed itself, so 12 years ago, that it will do something about this matter, but to this day we see that we haven't moved far in this direction and only now are we discussing a document that provides some basis for this extremely important issue to be resolved at all. At the very beginning of the term of office of this Government, a group was formed in which there was a whole number of ministers, who was responsible for resolving this issue, but here we are witnessing that in 2014 there is still no defined location where radioactive waste will be stored, and Croatia except for its radioactive waste that is ultimately mentioned in this document, there is also radioactive waste from Krško nuclear waste and it is our obligation as responsible states to make some decisions on how this waste will actually be taken care of. I think it would be the wrong decision to leave this waste entirely to the Republic of Slovenia because in this way Croatia will leave a lot of money to the Republic of Slovenia, and in a safe sense we will achieve nothing because the Slovenians have made a decision that this waste will actually be stored at the location of the nuclear plant itself, or near the nuclear plant itself, which is only 30 km from the City of Zagreb and in a geological sense how familiar I am with this location and is not an acceptable location for this purpose. The idea at the beginning of the mandate is to define in Croatia a location that would actually be in good geological formations and that would be in some way isolated, so in this sense abandoned military facilities that would be, in fact, in some ways, the most appropriate and in a safe sense, because you have to provide certain safety conditions for such waste. Croatia has a bad situation with radioactive waste. I'd like to remind you of a rather unusual situation that happens with abandoned wells. I asked a written parliamentary question two years ago if I wasn't wrong about the impression of radioactive waste in the Molve wells, and at that time I got the answer that it wasn't the correct information that the radioactivity and impression of radioactive emulsions in that well was observed. In the meantime, I came into possession of a document, an official document by the INA which tells me precisely that there is increased radioactivity in that location and from the spectrum of thorium and uranium, so the question arises how these competent institutions, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then the State Institute for radiation protection does not have that data and if there are any data, which is why he did not share that information with the Croatian public in response to my written parliamentary question about this. We have situations, of course, with a radioactive slag from industrial plants, which is what colleagues here have talked about, and I don't think it's a good approach that some fellow MPs promoted during this debate, which is that we are trying to transfer this problem to another's backyard, that is, to leave it to the neighbouring country because it is not in any case a responsible approach and responsible states have to solve this problem themselves. I hope that now that this strategy is adopted, the situation will accelerate, that things will start, that they will start to define the location or that we will go in the direction of solving this problem ourselves, that we will not leave it to the Republic of Slovenia for the reasons mentioned above, that we will leave a lot of money to the units of local self-government located in the Republic of Slovenia, and we will continue to have a very large security problem because this waste will be deposited only 30 km away from the city of Zagreb. In this context, I believe that the Croatian Parliament should support the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent institutions in that Croatia begins to address this extremely important issue and I think that it is the responsibility of the very large and competent Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the State to move towards far more quality information and one campaign of the population on what are the real dangers of low and medium radioactive waste, in which way this problem is solved in the developed countries of the world and that in some way the performances and advantages of the units of local self-government in which such a facility, i.e. the warehouse, would have for their overall budget. I would just like to remind you that according to the information I have at my disposal, there are some five million euros at the annual level. I think it is an extremely large amount of money for the very poor local self-government units located in areas where geological formations are such that it would be possible to take care of this waste, so I think that quality information for these people would probably help to change the current rather negative attitude of the Croatian public towards solving this problem. If this is possible, I think it shows clearly the example of the Republic of Slovenia where the units of local self-government literally fought for the location of radioactive waste to be stored in their jurisdiction, i.e. on their territory, because they certainly have far more quality information on how to take care of this waste and ultimately, which are real dangers and safety and people's health than taking care of such waste. Of course, the highest standards must be applied, but I repeat that the Republic of Croatia must show responsibility and deal with this issue on its own. So I don't support this scenario, which means taking care of this waste at a location in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87832	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87833	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear colleague Holly. With much of your exposure, I agree. Almost with your view that the responsible state as the Republic of Croatia should be known to deal with the problem of disposal of radiological waste and spent nuclear fuel and that we are in a special position after Slovenia has made a unilateral decision on the storage of spent nuclear fuel from Krško right at the location of the plant itself. This clearly then puts Croatia in a special position and the need to find a solution that will result partly from this strategy, and certainly from the National Implementation Programme of the Strategy itself. But what you said wrongly or I heard you weakly, but it seems to me that you said that it is not acceptable for the current solution to be nuclear, that radioactive waste is being delayed at the centre of Zagreb at the site of the Ruđer Boskovic Institute. In the strategy itself, it says nicely that the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security sealed the warehouse at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, so I must admit that it is not clear to me, so I would also ask that Mr. Director of the Institute or Deputy Minister say if there is a sealed warehouse at the Institute of Medical Research, and even 14 years ago, if it is sealed, and so it is written in the strategy of the warehouse at Ruđer Boskovic Institute, which is currently being delayed by radioactive waste, or is left where it is currently being created, and it is probably in hospitals. We've heard they're cobalt bombs or I don't know how. So, if it is not delayed in Ruđer Boskovic, it says so because the state institute sealed it would be good to have the Croatian public know this very interesting fact as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87834	Mirela Holly, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87835	Dear colleague, I agree that the Croatian public must be transparently informed about these matters. But I suppose the term sealed implies that the radioactive waste that was found in that location is there and remains only that no new storage is allowed, I suppose the lightning dam, some emulsions, some radioactive ones to say equipment contaminated from medicine or some other technological processes. And also like you, I'm guessing that this radioactive waste, and it's mostly supposed to be lower radioactive waste probably deposited at the very locations where it occurs, which is also a rather unacceptable situation. I would like to warn again that according to the obligations we had during the negotiations with the EU, Croatia was obliged to define the appropriate location where the waste will be stored. We see that, unfortunately, this problem has not been solved at this time, although it was a condition for the closure of the chapter of Energy, or Chapter XV.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87836	Comrade Drazenko Pandek, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87837	I think we can agree that the current situation on, so in this field of radioactive waste management, we cannot possibly assess as satisfactory. I say this primarily because Croatia, therefore, does not have a warehouse of radioactive waste that would provide waste that is currently generated in medicine, industry, science or the military. So this waste is slowly and persistently creating all this time. This fact is not only a health and environmental problem, I think it is also a security problem of the first level. I also have, and some colleagues have warned before, but I need to warn you here. Therefore, it would be good to know in what conditions and how radioactive waste is currently stored, so in medicine, science, industry that is currently emerging in the first order whether its conditions of health and the environment are ensured but the question that may not have been highlighted enough to ensure that this waste is adequately guarded? So it's supposed to be kept where it comes from. I don't know, in institutions, factories, hospitals, and I'd say we don't have enough information, especially from that security aspect, whether it's satisfactory. That's disturbing. We must in no way ignore the fact that such waste can be a bait for tourist groups who would be happy to use such material in the production of so-called. "Dirty bombs." So with that in relation to here, I'd like to hear if it's an opportunity to hear if the existing warehouses from the security aspect therefore correspond to a sufficient extent? I would say, now we return to this strategy, that its adoption is necessary because the warehouse is also closed at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute due to inadequate storage. First of all, it is totally unacceptable for such a strong warehouse to be here in the center of the city of Zagreb, which is quite inadequate and unsatisfactory and very risky environment. Making this strategy is a necessity. The first step towards solving this burning problem, of course, has not been since yesterday. Here, of course, in this place, I would remind the Zagreb people that the last HDZ government had the most serious intention of using the location here in Zagreb on Ruđer as a location for the accommodation of a permanent nuclear waste dump. And the initiative, which has failed fortunately, shows the seriousness of the problem and that the problem stretches over a very long period of time. So it's not just these or the previous, or future government that's the problem that will follow us for a few centuries or more, if not longer. This solution to this problem begins with this strategy, and here I would take advantage of the opportunity to rush further steps that must follow after its adoption. With regard to the management of nuclear waste from Krško power plant, we must prepare for the most likely solution, which is that Croatia will most likely have to take care of its half of the waste from Krško. So we have to find a solution where with it because we're going to have to take it from here. Everything else would be a total irresponsibility. Any other implication, therefore, is simply that we will not take it and criticise it without offering the appropriate solutions is, in my opinion, the ultimate irresponsibility, and such statements we could hear here in this debate. This strategy foresees the possibility of a joint storage in Slovenia but also predicts that other options other than taking over may not even be available. I'm sure the problem can't be pushed under the carpet. He'd say someone's junk we'll eat, we can't do that. Obviously, a responsible approach to this solution is not only a criticism but also a criticism with certain solutions. Also, when we consider the problem of location, we should point out once again that the location where all nuclear waste should be placed in Slovenia in the village of Vrbina is essentially a place that is very close, close to the Zagreb suburbs and therefore upstream to the Sava. When considering a solution, that fact must not be ignored. In fact, I would say that this solution even represents when we talk about the mass of people, about the number of people who would be potentially threatened by a possible havary of such a warehouse in that location when we look from a Croatian perspective, such a danger is the largest of all people. One thing in this strategy would be to some extent troublesome. Therefore, it is generally considered that the waste creator is in line with this principle that the polluter pays, that he is financially responsible for its safe disposal. When it comes to waste disposal from the nuclear plant, a fund has been set up to finance the operations of that storage and disposal of waste. HEP currently pays some amount which even here in the study is mentioned as inadequately adequate. But I must say that I find it unclear from the strategy whether they are therefore in the assessment of these costs to include the costs of compensation to the local community in the event that we must therefore take care of our waste on their territory. If someone came to me and told me to listen here it must be near your disposal of nuclear waste I'd say the first reaction of course I wouldn't want to, and if I had to, I'd say it would cost you bad. The amount foreseen for the compensation of the local community in Slovenia is moving around 100m euros, and we certainly have to anticipate it here as well. I'm afraid there may be some strategy missing. In particular, it seems to me that it foresees the principle when we talk about the local community in which the waste should be intended, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should actively support the development of the local community, which implies that the funds are essentially necessary for the disposal of such waste from the Republic of Croatia's budget, which is contrary to this principle as a pay polluter. I think that this strategy and future steps should also provide for funds for compensation to the local community, rather than stating that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will take measures from the budget towards which certain compensations would therefore be made to the local community for the disposal of nuclear waste. Another thing that might have intrigued me like this, so it's listed as one of the options of solving this natural radioactive waste its use in construction material. To this end, in accordance with this principle, the public must be as informed as possible in this problem as possible, I would say that this must not be done unless this material in which this radioactive waste will be, low natural radioactive waste will not be declared as the material in which that waste is located. And when we talk about this natural radioactive waste in the strategy, it is therefore stated that control at the level of radioactivity is entrusted essentially to the producers of this waste. What I am interested in is how the control of these professional technical services is done, whether there are any indicators that would indicate an increase in cancer disease in the area, or the increased incidence of some other diseases, i.e. measures to prevent such occurrences. Generally, when we talk about nuclear waste issues, I would say one of my own opinions that the problem of nuclear waste management indicates the problem of building nuclear power plants in general. We see the problems we face when dealing with only a small amount of this waste that we have here in the center of Zagreb, several cubic meters, which is the controversy, which is caused by the costs, even the unforeseen costs and consequences. The nuclear lobby is now somewhat retarded after this accident in Fukushima, but it was very decent a few years ago. I think that all of us together and within this topic should clearly and firmly take a stand because of all the opportunities we had to see, not only in Fukushima, but also in this problem of nuclear waste management. Let's take a professional view that no nukes, no designing any kind of energy independence strategy... Not to mention, with the planning of future nuclear power plants, but primarily to turn to our own sources, primarily sources that would therefore be from renewable energy sources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87838	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87839	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The only line I like about your exposure is this last one. Renewable energy sources and that 20-20-20 policy. But since you were talking about, and most of all you looked back, and you did not name these unfortunate agreements with Slovenia in connection with the supply of spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plant and mentioned Vrbina as the location that was designated in Slovenia, which is upstream from Zagreb and very close to the border with Croatia. So I would ask you as a member of the position in the Croatian Parliament whether this government is also the previous one to ask someone to do anything to participate or to suggest to Slovenia, any government in connection with that location located near Zagreb where millions of people live, where the highest concentration of the population in Croatia is. As no one even mentions St. Gera, etc., as no one mentions the many, hundreds of millions of euros in mutual agreements between Slovenia and Croatia, Slovenia owes the Republic of Croatia, I am not talking about the Ljubljanska Banka, it is a special story. No, we're constantly nodding our heads like Slovenia's some kind of power and we're constantly acting condescending, not to say that they are, and that's how we make this possible. I know that waste management is a business today, as Mirela Holly said, that business is, but radioactive waste is something else. You were also talking about compensation for local self-government, why compensation for local self-government? If it's so business and great, at least on our field or any other, here's our community that it's good to take care of in the Moldovans and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87840	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87841	... So this government is certainly not satisfied with the solution that this waste is located 30 kilometers from Zagreb. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] The fact itself that we have not reached an agreement with the Slovenians that all nuclear waste is being resolved so in that location it speaks enough about it. So, we disagree that there's all the nuclear waste being taken care of and there's no... Slovenians regarding our work of waste. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we don't want to agree now to the solution that our nuclear part, therefore, is part of our nuclear waste that's falling off on us, to be stored there. But what the Slovenians will do with their half, we absolutely have no instruments to stop it. And as for compensation to the local community, it is quite understandable that there will have to be compensations primarily due to psychological mentality. Would I, would you agree at all that there, that the end of your yard or near your place would be a location where there would be nuclear waste, so there wouldn't be. And it's important, so communication with the public is important, communication with the local community. In this communication, it is certain that the local community will have certain requirements that you simply have to give it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87842	Mirela Holly, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87843	Dear colleague, I'm going to look back at the last part of your exposure where you're talking about nuclear power plants and the dangers of nuclear power plants and the problems stemming from the nuclear power plants themselves. Of course, in the last few years, the world has been pretty negative towards nuclear energy because of Fukushima and what happened in Japan. However, I think it is not enough to talk about nuclear power plants only about safety and risks to human and animal health, but also about the economic aspect. In fact, it is often said that energy from nuclear power plants is the cheapest energy, but very difficult in these calculations is not the whole life cycle of nuclear power plants and all those costs of decommissioning power plants and everything that goes from it. When the total cost of a lifetime cycle of nuclear power plants is counted, then the price of kilowatt hours is no longer as favourable as it seems at first glance when these calculations are done. In Croatia, talk about the possibility of building a nuclear power plant in Slavonia, I think it would be a completely wrong decision, not just for health and safety reasons, but for economic reasons, because economic experts say it's worth building nuclear power plants 10 thousand megawatts if we look at the total infrastructure, and we're building a cabin here, and we're investing like we're going to build a palace.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87844	Drazen Pandek, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87845	Thank you. So, I agree that this area, when we talk about the construction of nuclear power plants, is an area that can hardly be predicted by consequences, primarily by economic ones that may still be the easiest in most of our predictions, but here we have, I would agree that we have very much in that formula of elements that we can hardly predict, but there are therefore other non-economic elements that suggest that this solution to the construction of new nuclear power plants is very insecure and worrying. The half-life time... elements and nuclear fuel plants themselves has been thousands and thousands of years. That time nobody, absolutely no one can predict all the consequences that can result from the use and subsequent disposal of that nuclear waste. Such systems fall into the area... of chaos where no parameters, no indicators can predict for us with certainty what will be at the table, let alone in a thousand or more years. Therefore, because of responsibility and towards ourselves, but also towards future generations with any initiatives for further construction of nuclear power plants, we must be extremely careful and extremely restrictive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87846	I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the strategy's proposal later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87847	Proposal for a strategy on the disposal of radioactive waste used sources of spent nuclear fuel. The debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a strategy. Please vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the vote is 105 votes in favour, 8 abstentions and 3 against the adopted Strategy on the disposal of radioactive waste used sources of spent nuclear fuel in the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87848	My colleagues and colleagues, we will still do two points on the agenda and that - Final proposal for a memorandum confirmation law in agreement on the institutional framework of the preparedness and prevention initiative in disasters for Southeast Europe 2013, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 709 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the report at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87849	Thank you, Vice President. Respected MPs and MPs, the memorandum of agreement on the institutional framework of the preparedness and prevention initiative in disaster prevention for Southeast Europe was in force in the Republic of Croatia from 01 January 2010 until 31 December 2013. In order to continue and improve co-operation and regional consultations in the field of disaster management, the Party's preparedness and prevention initiative for Southeast Europe, the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Turkey signed in Sarajevo on 28 November 2013, and the BiH Council of Ministers on 18 April 2014, a new Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework for preparedness and prevention in disasters for Southeast Europe. Subject law confirms that the Memorandum of Understanding is mentioned in order for its provisions to become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The main objective of adopting this law is to build institutional capacity for disaster management organisations in order to improve disaster prevention and preparedness in the countries of the Southeast European region by serving as a regional network and strengthening co-operation among the parties of the initiative. Starting with the need to further improve regional co-operation and regional consultations on disaster management as a necessity, it is considered that there is an interest in the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible to end all the necessary procedures for the entry into force of that Memorandum. In doing so, the creation of formal legal conditions for the effective implementation of all forms of cooperation provided for by the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the preparedness and prevention initiative in disaster prevention for Southeast Europe, and the law in question is proposed by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87850	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87851	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, first maybe a few principle remarks. In particular, this proposal for a law on the confirmation of a memorandum of consent on the institutional framework of the preparedness and prevention initiative in disasters for Southeast Europe is proposed in the form of legislation. It is not really clear why it should be a form of law because when the rapporteurs on the committee talked about it then they said that other members were talking about the ratification of this agreement. And I think that we should break up with this one practice that something that is relevant to the name of a ratification of an agreement of this or similar agreement, that it's called a law, is that on the one hand we build up laws whose term of life is already limited in advance, and by its nature they are not but simply accepting and ratifying these agreements. How illogical it is also that we always have the first and second reading of something that, by purpose and logically, does not require first and second reading. However, it would be good for there to be something other than practice in this proposal, either in the document or in the previous one, which is that the parent committees, before such agreements are signed, should the applicant or those who sign such agreements come and discuss them in the parent committee on preambles or the settings with which certain international agreements and agreements are entered. And in this way we're put before the final act that we can't have the only option is that we can, or we have to accept documents like this. Therefore, I would also plead on behalf of the club to go on something that is normal, to be a form of ratification on the one hand then we don't have that confusion with first and second reading, and on the other hand, that previously these documents are always before the debates are signed on the parent committees. On the other hand, we have one problem that we can only laminate about, and there's nothing more we can do. Here in the very name it is said to be a framework for co-operation in disasters in Southeast Europe. The logical question is why not all the countries of South East Europe are included here is missing by one criterion both Romania and Greece and Italy if you will, and on the other hand, if it is already disasters, the logical question is why there is no Austria here with which we have no direct borders, but we have a strong connection if the floods are involved. So that space should be connected. The answer to the committee was that there was also a bilateral agreement with those countries which apparently seem to be much stronger than this agreement, as defined by this document, which is again, again, the question of how self-initiative and goodwill is, and it creates a willingness to solve the problem or solve the disaster. Here, the reasons for this consensus on disasters can be double nature, or because disasters can occur and extend to an area of several countries, or because some countries do not have enough capacity to solve disasters themselves regardless of what they are concerned. By the way, the document does not define which disasters are involved in co-operation, so it remains unarranged. What is in some way indicated in the interpretation of this is that the focus on exchange of experiences, on joint exercises, rather than on some larger and wider actions. And on the other hand, we come to this instead of having one document that will bind all these countries that can be linked to these potential disasters, we are actually going more to this political dimension and cooperation because it is said in the law that this is done in view of the enlargement of the EU and the processes of Euro-Atlantic integration which may be of interest to some countries, of primary interest, but not to Croatia, given that Croatia should already start acting and have self-awareness that it is a member of both NATO and the EU. So with these indications, I think that some things should be changed both in the future and in the approach and in the suggestion that we should not be put before the final act and burden both the work of the Parliament and the MPs, and that there are no real effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87852	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87853	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, dear Deputy Minister with an associate. Our Croatian anthem says "Teach Savo, Dravo run or Danube loses power, the blue sea tells the world" etc. And it's not poetic, it's a fact. And now we read the memorandum, an ugly word of the memorandum given some other memos, but says the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the preparedness and prevention initiative and then on the English DDDI as it is written with the EE. And then we see the name of the country of Southeast Europe where the first letter of the Southeast is written in a capital letter, which means that it is the name of some region officially, as Croatia is written in a capital letter or I don't know what. Are we a member of the European Union or are we a member of JI Europe? We celebrated a holiday two days ago, a holiday of state independence where we broke all state-owned ties with the republics of the former Yugoslavia, but you see here in the material something that has been forging in other places and in Europe for a long time, as well as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the region of JI Europe. And then as a confirmation of this observation, Article 1 where DPISEE's objectives, therefore the SEE countries, strengthens co-operation among the parties, among these countries, in view of the enlargement of the European Union and the Euro-Atlantic integration process. Croatia is the promoter of Euro-Atlantic integration in this area, with Romania being mentioned here in the preamble, and Romania is missing from the signing of this memorandum. And not to mention that there is neither Austria nor Hungary nor Italy nor Greece, and it is said to run Savo, Dravo run, and Drava comes to us from Slovenia, Mura comes to us from Austria, and Danube and high water waves from the Danube from Hungary. Hungary's not here either. If we work with Hungary at high water and flood threats as a disaster that occurred in May of this year, Croatia, not in the Danube part but in this Sava, we cooperate. Why isn't Hungary here? Why isn't Austria here? And from Austria come high water stops and flood threats, Mura and Drava. They're gone. And Romania is listed in the preamble, but it's not in the signature, where there are at last no signatories of Romania, so I'd like an explanation. The second thing, and this is the problem, so Croatia as a state deals with this memorandum and connecting in every way to JI Europe, it is some kind of policy first of all of this government, and it is not about Mr. Deputy Minister by improving and putting civil protection, by organising civil protection. We know what a mess it was, what unpreparedness and disorganization were when the flood in Cvelferia in May this year, in Drenovci, Rajev village, Racinovci, Đurići, Srošinci, Vrbanja. There was civil protection, we had it, it's no relic from that former state, but the organisation for such disasters as it was this year in one smaller area, so in this smaller area of the Republic of Croatia, the government was running every day, someone comes, every day someone proposes something. Croatian waters have a plan, the DUZS has a plan, and therefore it is necessary to organise and know who is doing what is doing in such a situation, in a situation of disaster it would be much better and more necessary for Croatia than for such a memorandum. Or it's a memorandum that maybe, I wouldn't want to be a prophet or any predictor, that maybe this way in a joint agreement, maybe a thermopower plant, or I don't know where, in another country, and that water might be released into Raj's village, Racinovci and Gunjo, which I forgot to say in the first part. Maybe that's what the memorandum's for. I wouldn't want to be saying predict such a thing so that then there's such a thing as not to say crisis headquarters makes a decision in common that where there's less, maybe the damage of the water is released and the rash is saved by something else. Therefore, here in the assessment of the resources necessary for the implementation of this law it states that no additional financial resources are required in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Well, that doesn't make any sense to me. I know that the secretariat that currently exists in Sarajevo has employees who finance BiH, but if they go twice a year to meetings of members of the presidency of this initiative, and who, they will go on their own at their own expense, 2 kn per km or how, I don't know, and twice a year meets regularly members of the presidency and will probably stay there, eating kevapee in Sarajevo at Ferhatovic. I'm not going to ironize any further. Most of the time, our canaders flew into Greece to put out the fire and Greece was gone. I said already about Austria, about Hungary, Romania, let's kind of see here that was in the preamble written, it's not in the signatures of this memo. What happened to Romania, maybe someone knows, might know the deputy minister. But what Croatia needs to do, which is to focus on raising the civil protection system, its own civil protection system, to arrange, to make one protocol who reacts and does what. And in the situation of this disaster in Cvelferia there was no such thing. That's not what happened. This will be worth a lot more than any memorandum with any other countries, and mainly not with the countries of Southeast Europe in which we are deliberately beaten and written by Southeast Europe, watch out for the big letter. This is not the geographical southeast of Europe, not that it is a mark of the official locality in which we are suffering, although we are members of the EU and NATO Pact, unlike some other countries that are not members of the EU or members of the NATO Pact. Why is that? I don't know, but I don't like this text. We'll still think about voting this and give our court to our club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87854	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87855	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Memorandums of Understanding on the institutional framework of the preparedness and prevention initiative for disasters for Southeast Europe 2013, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 709. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 110 votes for and 5 abstentions and 1 against, so, thank you very much, passed the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the preparedness and prevention initiative for Southeast Europe 2013 in the text proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87856	And we will also discuss - Final draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the European Partnership, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 712. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Foreign Policy. You received the reports at the session. The opening proposal will be explained by Deputy Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Mr. Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87857	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. As part of its policy towards non-EU countries in Southeast Europe, Croatia has offered cooperation to achieve European standards, i.e. to integrate these countries into the EU and NATO in accordance with their national policies of course. We have already signed and the Parliament has even ratified a series of such contracts, for example with Moldova, we have signed Montenegro, Macedonia. We have a similar memorandum with Ukraine as well as a protocol with Georgia and Azerbaijan. A similar contract was submitted in 2012 to Bosnia and Herzegovina, but we have not yet received an answer from the Bosnian-Herzegovina side since a single Bosnian-Herzegovina position on this proposal has not been adopted within its competent authorities. Kosovo was offered such a contract in May this year, and we are still harmonising the text of the contract with Serbia. You have a European partnership agreement with the Republic of Albania on the table. With this Treaty, we seek to help Albania accept the EU's acquis and adapt to European standards, and through the transfer of our own experiences from the negotiating process, support Albania in a successful continuation of European integration. The contract was signed in Zagreb on 21 March 2014. The specific objective of this Treaty is to help meet the criteria to facilitate Albania's EU membership negotiations, to contribute effectively to the alignment of the national legislation of the Republic of Albania with the acquis, to the adjustment of the institutional infrastructure of the state administration of the Republic of Albania, and to raising the level of expertise of its officials as well as to help develop a process of quality and timely information to the public on EU accession. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources from the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. More information is that the Republic of Albania has implemented an internal certification procedure, and has informed us about it with a diplomatic note. The government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the parliament to also confirm this contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87858	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87859	Thank you, well-respected Croatian Vice-President, Mr. Klisovic, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Albania and the Council of Ministers on a European partnership with the final draft of the law. It is clear that the Republic of Albania has already been established and for many years very friendly relations. Namely, there is also a proposal on the table which is a bit foggy and unclear about the Adriatic-Ionian highway where much of Albania is included in this part, so the mergers of Greece via Albania, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Croatia, as far as I can tell Western Europe, i.e. the members of the EU, the large members of the EU, the middle and the north. What is only unclear is that we have nothing to object to this cooperation between the Republic of Albania and the Republic of Croatia is that the assessment of the resources necessary for the implementation of this law states that no additional funding from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia is needed, so I would ask Mr Klisovic when it is already possible, if Article 2 of this legislative proposal states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will make specific knowledge and expertise available in the process of European integration through the following forms of cooperation, which is: organisation of joint consultations, initiatives, events and activities. Is this organization already foreseen in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, so they do not need new funds or? Well then, the organisation of study visits from the Republic of Albania, experts from the Republic of Albania, to the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, or not in the budget, is said to be unnecessarily unnecessarily needed. Professional training through seminars, so seminars last for seven days and more sometimes. On issues of European integration, legislation, raising the level of expertise, including experts from both parties. Is that what I'm saying in the asset assessment I'm saying there's no funds, that's not what it's gonna take. But I see from this article 2 that the cost of the funds will be for maintenance if all of this is maintained in Article 2 of this Law. The exchange of civil servants, the provision of professional services in the field of European integration by Croatian experts, training and exchange of experiences related to the management of EU financial assistance will also prepare joint projects. Even projects cost money, preparing joint projects. I guess half of us, half of them or how? So, whatever turns the cost will be. I just don't know which item they're supposed to be in, or the new budget needs to be made up of funds for this. So it doesn't seem to me that the assessment of the resources needed to implement this law does not seem to be necessary. And what I still see in Article 6 as writing, which is so I'm not going to say interesting, but it might be possible to comment, which is that this contract is concluded indefinitely. Is it undefined as hiring on a specific and undefined basis? Either it's written until Albania enters the EU or I don't know how. Why indefinitely? In the event that this contract can be clearly terminated and the items contained in this contract shall cease to be valid after 6 months after the withdrawal of any party or party to this contract. Mostly the HDSSB club will support but only we ask the minister to explain to us this neutrooper of no kuna regarding the implementation of this contract between Albania and Croatia. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87860	And finally, Deputy Minister, Mr. Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87861	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here is very short, so you are right that these activities will produce certain costs, but you are right also when you say that these costs are already in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that bilateral relations with the Republic of Albania and on the item of the Centre for Transition Processes, or that we popularly call it the Centre of Excellence, which is a centre in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs where the consolidated and systematic full knowledge that we have from the negotiating process where we have invited all negotiators, the leaders of working groups and other people who participated in the process to simply systematise this knowledge because what I would have said was in the bulk of their heads until then, but we didn't have one place. The centre has its own budget line in our ministry budget as it exists for bilateral relations with Albania. And, of course, how relations develop and how we are coming into new situations, and at this point Albania is a candidate for EU membership, so we also channel these funds into new activities, new programmes and continue some that we have had so far. In this regard, therefore, no longer needs the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide additional resources for the implementation of this law because the funds are already provided in these two items. Thank you. Yes, there were also questions about the validity of the contract, why is it indefinitely possible to cancel? It's a standard formula that we have in all our contracts, international contracts, and it's actually used in international legal practice very often, it's almost a rule without exception.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87862	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. My colleagues and colleagues once again remind you that on Sunday 12 October there will be an Open Door Day of the Croatian Parliament between 10.00 and 17:00 hours, so I ask that at least someone from all clubs be present because of citizens visiting the Croatian Parliament. And information on the follow-up. We will continue on Wednesday, 15.10. at 9.30 with the Final Proposal of the Law on the Areas and Seats of the Courts, we will continue with the Final Proposal of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyerries and the proposal of the Industrial Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much and goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-10-0.u87863	The next is the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Albania and the Council of Ministers on the European Partnership, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 712. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I would like to conclude that the Law confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Albania and the Council of Ministers on the European Partnership in the text has been unanimously adopted, as proposed by the Proposer, 120 votes in favour. Good morning, esteemed fellow MPs and fellow MPs. We continue to work in the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. Before we move to the agenda, I see the hand of a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar by default.
