ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74183	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. We will discuss - Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the selection of members in the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 629 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Management Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74184	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Very short. We want to do three things with these little changes to the law. The first is to define the way in which MPs are immunised in the European Parliament, and the second is to streamline the number of members of the electoral bodies a little bit and reduce the cost of the election, specifically to try within the already valid provisions on the possibility of joining several municipalities and cities in one polling post, to try to reduce the cost of the election a little, and the second is to reduce the number of members of the electoral committee, given the position of the State Election Commission that the previous elections have been shown, and possibly with a smaller number of members of the electoral committees, since it is only one list, to carry out the elections, and therefore to try to do so. The proposal is to follow the urgent procedure given the recent elections for the European Parliament. I also remind myself of the good practice of the Venice Commission that the amendments should be made to other provisions, should not be within one year before the election, so that we do not change what the electoral system itself has proved to be more or less correct in the previous elections. Citizens voted for both lists and candidates on the lists. About any amendments that we have received that will be presented in the debate, after the debate, we will manifest ourselves until the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74185	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the Croatian Labourists, the respected Dragutin Lesar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74186	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister. I'm sorry, this last amendment wasn't talked about. ... This last amendment I couldn't simply hear because you spoke quite quietly so I will explain our two amendments submitted by the Croatian Labour Club because I believe they can significantly affect the revision of this law. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it's really about small interventions in law. The main explanation of interventions on election committees and election committees is that the costs of implementation and elections are reduced by about 13 million kuna. The government has proposed a provision under which municipal or city election commissions would be formed for at least 10 polling stations. If I took a good look at this election in Croatia, we have 577 electoral commissions. One situation resulting from a territorial structure that some electoral commissions oversee the work of two electoral committees because there are two polling stations in the municipality or in the city, while this Electoral Commission in the city of Zagreb has 604 polling stations, or 604 election boards. And all election committees have 3 members and 3 deputies, so 6 equal members in terms of work and decision-making. We believe that this figure of at least 10 electoral committees should be increased to 20 with the exception of polling stations on islands where there is indeed an excuse for this figure to be less due to the communication of links and physical availability to election committees. Although the law has so far provided for the possibility that the State Election Commission should not appoint electoral commissions for each municipality and for every city, this has never happened in practice. The State Election Commission has appointed each municipality regardless of the number of polling stations an election commission as well as for each city. In the light of the bill's proposal, when it comes to election committees, the government did not give detailed arguments of savings as was done with the election committees and there was a calculation of 13 million and 200 thousand kuna, if I am not mistaken. I think, by accepting our amendment, the same significant savings would be made in the state budget in the conduct of these elections. When it comes to election committees under the current law, they have five members, counting the presidents and deputies and five deputies, so ten people for each polling post. This law stipulates that from ten, their numbers are reduced to six. We do not think that in these elections we should intervene in the number and composition of election committees for several reasons. Not long ago, election processes in Croatia were observed by OSCE delegations, NGOs primarily GONG. police parties had a large number of their observers especially in the polling stations, because we are all aware that the possibility of manipulation and influence on election results is primarily but not only, but primarily in the polling post. As the development of democracy and political culture, as well as legislative solutions progressed, the need for the lawfulness of electoral processes to be monitored by both the OSCE and NGOs to be less and less present at polling stations, and the decision to have equal or evenly represented parliamentary parties with the same number of ruling or opposition, and that rule also applies at local and regional self-government level in local and regional elections, there was a norm and structure of the electoral committees to which no one had serious objections and thus provided a solid guarantee and a possibility to monitor the validity of electoral procedures in the polling post itself. And after this model was introduced, not only for the European elections but also for the parliamentary, local, regional and presidential number of objections to dissatisfaction and suspicions of the validity of the process fell radically. If we have positive experience, if such a solution has so far provided a solid guarantee and prompted a large number of disputes, lawsuits, complaints, complaints, complaints is not good to change and reintroduce the point of possible suspicions. Although there is now an objection that it is possible to manipulate the results of the elections in the polling stations, primarily by revoking the ballots of competing lists or candidates that the masters who have been trained to do extremely well at the polling post itself, especially at the time of the voter's closing and joining the vote counting process with the 10-member voter's structure and the even representation of the opposition and the ruling in the polling stations, this doubt, this possibility of these manipulations is reduced to a minimum. And that is why our second amendment is that the provision of Article 36(2) of the existing law does not change and does not touch. These are the arguments of our two amendments to be presented on the parent board when it was discussed, and I think that by accepting these amendments from the government, a compromise would be made to resolve the repairs and to save but also to give a solid guarantee that we will not cause new doubts about the results of the election in polling stations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74187	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected Peja Grbin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74188	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. There is indeed one small but in certain segments of the amendment of the Law on the selection of members in the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia which, in the opinion of the SDP Club, will add to the functionality of the law itself, and will bring significant savings to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The first amendment to this law concerns the procedure or for the submission of an application for the abolition of immunity to members of the European Parliament. Although the content of this immunity as well as the process of abolishing immunity in the European Parliament itself is governed by rules that are identical to that of all EU Member States, the procedure for applying for the abolition of immunity has been left to national legislation to regulate it for each country as it considers necessary. In the specific case of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the European Parliament, it is provided that each State is obliged to designate a national body which may refer such requests to the European Parliament. In different Member States, this problem has been solved in different ways. Some Member States have not set up that body and apply their rules of procedure or their rules for the abolition of immunity for MPs in national parliaments, some Member States have designated, for example, the Minister of Justice or the National Parliament as authorised bodies to apply while Croatia has submitted to those Member States which have designated national courts or national lawyers as applicants. We believe that in this way we will achieve a quality effect or we will ensure that in the process of abolishing immunity and submitting that application for members of the European Parliament avoids, avoiding maximum political tampering, and that the whole process is left to independent bodies except, of course, the final one where the European Parliament must decide itself to abolish immunity for its members. Certain differences with the abolition of immunity for MPs in the Croatian Parliament exist for reasons why an application for the abolition of immunity may be submitted by a private prosecutor or damageor as a prosecutor in the Croatian Parliament. Such a provision is not possible in relation to the abolition of immunity for members of the European Parliament for the reason that the Rules of Procedure provide that it must be a national body. Since this is the case with the damages and the private prosecutor on private persons and not the national body, the opinion has been adopted that they will address the court before which the proceedings are being conducted and then the court will refer the application to the European Parliament for the abolition of immunity. The second provision, i.e. the other two provisions, but we can consider them to be the whole of this law, are provisions relating to savings and to improving the functioning of the bodies conducting the elections. Indeed, and this is what Honorable counterpart Lesar was talking about, indeed, and we can even say inappropriately that in European elections where, unlike local elections, electoral commissions do not have to take the lists, they do not have to take care of candidates, but they represent only one mediator between the electoral board and the county and state election committee. It is truly inappropriate for you to have the situation that two constituency voting committees such as ourselves in Istria have one 46 polling stations and constituency committees that monitor and lead and the next have two. The fee for working for both these election committees is the same. Since the law was left to the State Election Commission to take advantage of the possibility given and to bring together and reduce the number of these election committees without the State Election Commission using this I do not think it is the obligation of the Croatian Parliament to in this case in some way give the order to the State Election Commission that they will work and, of course, eventually save themselves in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia. The same situation is also the case with a reduction in the number of members of the electoral committees where we believe that this change, as with election committees, will continue to ensure the legitimacy and legality and functionality of the work of the electoral bodies, while ensuring significant savings in the state budget. However, given the amendments submitted by colleagues from the Croatian Labourists, which certainly make sense in a certain part of it, and the desire to adopt this law with the largest consensus possible, here I am going to ask the SDP Representatives' Club to reconsider these amendments once more. And in any case, this law should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74189	We have a replica. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74190	Dear counterpart Grbin, I agree with you with the conclusion that despite the reduction of election board members, it will be preserved and ensured legitimacy. However, I am taking this opportunity to say that it would be very important for both the Minister and our parliamentary representatives to talk every time we talk about the EU elections, about the importance of going to European elections. If that were important, in particular, it is important that who is representing us so that what happened in the European Parliament the other day when 298 representatives in the EU refused to guarantee men and women the same salary for the same job. One scandal that took place, which pushed women into the seal and should point out that the euro opened refused women to be equal with men.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74191	The answer to the replica of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74192	I thank my distinguished colleague Vuksic for pointing out this example because the notorious fact that members of the European Parliament from the ranks of the SDP and from the ranks of Croatian Labourists supported this, not even the law, is this one report that pointed to the inequality that exists. But what is even sadder than the fact that five members of the European Parliament from another Croatian party who shared roses neatly last Saturday, who advocated gender equality last Saturday, could change the European Parliament's decision with their voices. It was necessary for 5 members of the European Parliament to vote differently than they voted and this, and we will say such a historical report would be adopted. However, the representatives of the one Croatian party did not have the courage to take, in a way and the fate of Europe into their own hands and to support the report. But here, that's right, we share roses on Saturday, and then when Tuesday needs something concrete to do, then we're gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74193	For the club Independent Representatives, colleagues Grubisic and Cain applied. Who's gonna talk? ... Grubisic and Cain. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's a colleague of Cain's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74194	Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament, Minister. Yes, indeed only two, three sentences, without intending to prolong. Okay, come on, this bill is more or less fine. Smaller costs mean some savings, that's about $13 million somewhere. Croatia is here we see one constituency, 11 MPs are elected. However, someone mentioned that, Mr. Lesar just before, an observer. What should be banned I do not know in what way, that observers call people and the basic function of observers is to raise voters, not to monitor elections which should be their original function. So if someone is a violation of the electoral procedure then I claim that they are observers and that is about a rule that works more or less across the Republic of Croatia. What should also be done, although regulated by other laws, implement one greater control of the spending of election money. The fimi media here was one, the little fimi media are much more subtle than this big one. Why, because this great one was being brazen, naively, was the first in a row, yes, and these little ones that follow are far more ruthless and insolent. ... Okay, Mr. President. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74195	So stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74196	What are you nervous about? ... We'll talk about the woods later. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What? ... And about golf, not about forests and mountains, but about forests and golfes, but about that a little later. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74197	Comrade Cain, let's do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74198	And secondly, yes, he was just saying, there's really no need to say anything in this law about abolishing immunity. Okay, I want to believe that no one who has done "something wrong" will just run away from Croatia without responsibility. Yes, we see that this initiative will simply be launched by Croatian courts, not exactly the same as in the case of our representatives or ministers, but I want to believe that the European Union or their parliament will be as benevolent as the Parliament when it comes to abolishing immunity. And that's when we talk about who, where, on which lists, they're going to represent, some other occasion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74199	On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Boro Grubisic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74200	Thank you very much. Although this is a brief presentation by Mr. Cain... Well, I'm the replicator.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74201	You picked up the line first, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74202	My men, what is this this morning? So Mr. Cain said one sentence that observers raise voters. I don't know how they raise them, but what's negative in choosing anyone, for the European Parliament, for the Croatian Parliament or for locals, for observers to raise voters and that's something that's negative in polling stations. That's not true. At times, members of the election board themselves have their phones and tips and voter numbers and report to their parties who gets out. Observers do not do so, observers do see only the course of the election itself, so they are obliged to remain at the polls when closing. So that's one role, one function that's actually been taken over by both GONG and some of the other associations, NGOs in terms of election regulation. I wouldn't be as harsh as you, Mr. Caine, to the watchers in the election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74203	The answer to Damir Cain's line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74204	So we've all been here a long time in politics, we know how it actually works in Croatia. If it worked with us as it works in France, Austria, Germany or Liechtenstein then it would be a second song, but the observers here in this country are the only tasks to raise voters. It is clear from the lists who came out, they are called in those breaks or breaks, people rise up, and normally in this way someone will say that a more effective political group can act more effectively to bring its membership to the polls, but someone else will notice that it is nothing more than one manipulation that lasts during all election cycles in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74205	On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Boro Grubisic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74206	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Not only do they report to membership through observers and themselves members of the electoral committees, because we see for ourselves that according to the composition of the election boards, it is actually a party body, along with a president who is allegedly not a member of any party. At least that's what the law says. But the fact that they report it twice a day on the course and dynamics of the elections and on those who have not come out and called the phone, etc., is a matter of technique that has been practiced in Croatia for 22, 23 years. What particularly bothers me, although I have not yet started on the right topic, is that we still have boxes that are used in polling stations, cardboard, paper and which do not have walls, walls as transparent as in other countries, and even in those that are according to some criteria or standards and below the Republic of Croatia, are not members of the European Union. African countries have some plastic, transparent boxes, so when a ballot is inserted, then you can see if it's just one leaf or more ballots, etc. We still have to say the Austrian one system that still prefers almost all of the polling stations of a cardboard box that are supposed to be in the morning at 6 o'clock in front of the election board members, who comes, who doesn't come and says there's nothing, and then the election board members are sent to sign that statement that they were members of 300 kuna, they all fly there, and the president stays alone at the polling station and then he does what he wants to do, what he wants and who he cheers for. But here we have today on the benches of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the selection of members in the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia. So according to the deadlines needed, so up to one year from the elections themselves, as Mr Bauk said, etc., to pass this law which is actually one that is technically trying to reduce the price of the European Parliament's election by about 13 million and 200 000 kuna. When it comes to elections for the European Parliament, then we need to know that last year when the first elections were held for 12 members of the European Parliament were proposals mainly by the HDZ that these elections were due to, therefore, access to the polls of a larger number of people than they were, and it was only, the turnout was 20%. 20% or 21% was the turnout for last year's European Parliament election. And then what's the picture of the election itself and the results of those choices when only a fifth of the electorate went to the polls. Is that a real and objective picture? It's not. That's a fifth of the electoral body's gone to the polls. We suggested that these elections and very fiercely pleaded take place the same day as the elections for local self-government where the turnout was about 40 or something else, as where, on average, more than 40%. We would have spent it last year, and in the polling post we had 2 separate seats, 2 separate polling stations were given a much more objective picture of the electoral body and their wishes, and in connection with the election of members for the European Parliament. Unfortunately, then, the prime minister said that democracy is expensive, that democracy has no price and that elections for the European Parliament should be held separate from elections for local and regional self-government, it is said. Here's what we can see now is that democracy has a price, that we're reducing the number of people on the election board from 10 to 6 and that's to explain that the voting process and to say readings of the vote itself is simpler than for example for, and it's not true. It's not true that it's simpler, the explanation didn't go too far because we have a preferential number of votes that are very difficult to determine, not to determine it easily. But it increases the complexity, the complexity of the vote counting itself because you have preferential votes. How many will be listed in these elections for the European Parliament? How many persons will therefore be on those lists where you can choose as executive authority in terms of the executive functions of the President of the Republic, or for mayors, mayors or mayors of the municipalities. So by name you can choose and it's a very complex job. And we are now reducing the number of members of the election board because it is very simple to vote with that argument from 10 people to 6 people. I personally don't mind the HDSSB's savings, thank God. If we save so much on everything, and Prime Minister Milanovic said democracy is expensive, democracy has no price. And if the response is 20% again, it doesn't take those six, so I think it turns out by the words of the minister himself because it's a very simple vote, and it's not simple at all, it's not simple at all. Even counting votes is not easy, preferential votes on each list are not easy, determining the number of invalid ballots that, because people have not yet realized how this is voted for by the European Parliament. Last year was 20, 21% turnout, and this year it's hard to predict. But if it is the same then it is indeed one pattern that is not objective, from which objectively not only the opinion of the entire electoral body can be concluded. God forbid it's twice as many, but it's hard to expect. So these 13 million and 200,000 kunas can be increased even more if we adopt and here's a good proposal. I think I agree that the electoral commission, or commission, will change in such a way that for 20 electoral committees, it will be one commission. So, leaving these six on the election board, and increasing the number of committees that would belong, so one commission would have additional savings. If it's about savings, it is. In connection with the immunity itself or the abolition of immunity to representatives in the European Parliament. It is here to say one suggestion that these are authorized bodies to apply for the abolition of immunity to be the competent court and the State's Attorney's office, as is the case in the event of the abolition of immunity to representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which is actually the only possible way for us in the country to propose to remove or remove immunity. Since the club has already proposed this amendment, the number one of them is to form one commission for 20 electoral committees along with this one, leaving Article 3 with six members, not with ten. Because let's be honest, so let's face it, six people on the election board can do that counting job and preferential votes. Well, after all, they also receive compensation for sitting there for 12 hours from 7 a.m. to 19 o'clock p.m. and then knowingly doing that count, and the compensation for it of 300 kunas that are received clearly that, I think it covers that unworkable day well enough. It's usually Sunday, isn't it, when elections are held with us, to count the six left behind after this proposal? So, to count both the preferential and the party lists and everything that goes with the European Parliament elections. So, if there is 6 left in the election committee for the sake of the savings we are talking about and it is a complex numbering job and if a single commission is formed for 20 electoral committees, as proposed by the Labour Club, then the HDSB club will be for this legislative proposal, which is more technical, the regulation of election committees and commissions than something new brings to Croatia the practice of selecting elections and the composition of commissions and the composition of election committees. The composition of the electoral committees remains in proportion to how this is in line with the party composition of this 7th convocation of the Croatian Parliament, so 6 people on the electoral committee can also be joined. Well, when it's taken to e.g. The town of Slavonski Brod has 52 polling stations times 6 that is 312 people, and a proportionate party composition of these election committees can be determined. It is clear that some smaller parties will not have in all election committees of their own but will have a proportional number of their representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I think it's one thing to say objective and acceptable fact. Here, that's the position of the HDSSB club in connection with this bill. I think we could call this some kind of master election plan for the European Parliament because here we combine maybe 20 electoral committees for one commission as we combine hospitals in Croatia 67 master plans will bring it down to 21, 22. So here, by the master's plan of these, we are putting together the election of members in the European Parliament and the electoral committees in committees that will include, if adopted, and we see that the SDP is ready to do so, so that 20 electoral committees fall under the authority of one commission. Now, this master plan of yours will be accepted by the HDSSB club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74207	We're moving on to replicas. The first is the respected Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74208	Dear counterpart Grubisic, you pointed out in the introduction of your debate a problem that occurs not only in the elections for the European Parliament that were held last year for the first time, but in all elections. You were talking about ballot boxes. I can tell you as head of the OSCE delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly I have been in many election observers so let's say the countries of Turkmenistan, Tajikistan, Georgia, Azerbaijan, Serbia, Montenegro, which we consider much more indemnity of the country as you have said have transparent boxes and this is a condition for the transparent conduct of the elections. I mean, in no country where I've been, there's no box like we do, closed, that can't be seen and that can be manipulated. We are the very technical choice in the electoral venues the most rigid. And I think we should change that practice. This is an opportunity for these elections to be made and for those who decide to hear our voice. Because that first leaf when it's inserted, when it's seen that the box is empty and all day long what you said is seen when you insert 3, 4 leaves together in transparent boxes, in these boxes you can't see anything. And I don't think that's an accident.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74209	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74210	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, it's only one of the conditions. So, these transparent boxes, glass or plastic, I don't know what they're from, are one of the conditions of fair, just, so just election process that day. So, I had a friend who said as president of the election board I send the other members to sign for the 300 kn, and while they go there, I put 100 ballots in the box that he formed before that. And then throw in as much as you want all day. The party for which he has inserted 100 ballots will certainly have an advantage. And whoever votes for the other party will have a ratio that is not appropriate. And he's doing it, he's doing it neatly for his own. I didn't report him, I'm not the prosecutor, but I know how he worked. So it's something about making a mess at 6:7 p.m. when they're hoarding people and then inserting an extra 10 sheets of one to insert already stored in their pocket. That's another thing. So there's a series of manipulations, but if they're glass boxes, then those manipulations can't be done. Unfortunately, no one in Croatia thinks to change that technical detail that is not even expensive. Yeah, they're permanent, they can serve all the choices, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74211	New replica, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74212	Well, I personally support as few people as possible in that commission, although perhaps there is an even greater number of manipulations. But I want to look back on the part where you were telling Mr. Representative that democracy has a price. Democracy had a price and it would have a price. One election cycle in Croatia cost cca or cost 47 million kuna. That's the equivalent of, say, that referendum. Whether it's local elections, whether it's parliamentary, whether it's presidential. True, the euro elections and these local elections could have been joined a year ago. This time we see that the election will cost you about 13 million kunas less than it cost last year. The response will probably be about 22% this time as you mentioned, and then you ask yourself why 22%? Obviously, people in Europe do not care as they are interested in elections where they really decide, and that was right here, whether it's a word at local or parliamentary level. However, there may be something else to consider in Croatia, that Croatia must vote as one Australia knows it, perhaps the prime minister or his delegation will return with such experience. But another thing, mandatory voting in Europe is known to the most developed countries of the EU, including some that are not, whether it is Belgium, whether it is the Netherlands, whether it is Denmark and if I am not mistaken, some Scandinavian countries also know the principle. One word sends a message to people, go vote, don't complain afterwards, don't engage in election engineering. That's actually the point because that big gets a lot more and the smaller ones stay sometimes without everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74213	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74214	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain, I fully agree with you that this provision on compulsory going to elections other than those who are not able to because of the disease is difficult, etc., would vote and go to the vote but therefore have medicines to come home to, as they go home, and then it is to those who are going to vote for the one to whom a member of the electoral committee will come and suggest that he vote. So, from Australia to Belgium, the Netherlands where it is mandatory to vote, why shouldn't Croatia also be in that group of highly developed countries that have a mandatory vote. But when we talk about it, remember a referendum on EU entry that was neither legal nor today is not regulated when it is allowed for example. if five people go to the referendum, five people go to the EU or vice versa, they will not leave if they are three against. So these setups and these games around all these laws in connection with the election referendum have their own political basis, so we can talk about it, but this time it's just this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74215	Now we'll hear what our club resents Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74216	Thank you very much. Not to stay in the air, namely counterpart Grubisic, you said in your debate that the prime minister said democracy had no price, it was evident in recent years that democracy had a growing price and that the budget grew from year to year. But what is definitely important to us at the HDSSB Club is systematic measures and systematic rationalisation. This is what this budget rebalancing does not offer is that it offers sure then to reduce ministries, reduce agencies, reduce the number of official cars, reduce and unite the number of counties, units of local, regional administrations. That's what you're not offering right now. Therefore, democracy has a growing price in Croatia and unfortunately revenues are growing. Therefore, systematic measures should be taken, not partial measures such as this one, although we will support this one, but systematic measures are needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74217	Here are more answers to this replica, Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74218	Comrade Bubalo, I'm afraid some of them have joined together. Yesterday we talked about contributions, as if some have joined in contributing to destroying the resources of wealth, the economy of the Croatian state. That's amazing what it's all about. And wherever you bury, in any ministry, in any public enterprise, in the Croatian railway, in HEP, everywhere, harmful shops are done everywhere. You've listed some. These cars, not to mention, car tires and I don't know what they're not, are done so we're not really just moving out of place. These contributions from such large managers in public enterprises that have or also the CNB we have as one harmful behaviour for this country which, whose people are indeed in one I would say not almost but completely debt slavery when we see that private bankruptcy is being introduced, etc., pre-banking deals for people who owe billions and there are about 300 thousand, when we have 400 thousand unemployed is really inappropriate behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74219	Perhaps the replica of Ante Babić will bring us back from the tires for cars and pre-war deals on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74220	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I believe so. Comrade Grubisic, in your debate, you spoke more about technical details, boxes, panoramics, electoral, preferential voice, but you also said that democracy has its price, but it also has its own legality, I would love to have you mention Article 45. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which says that all 18-year-old citizens have a general equal voting right in the elections for the Croatian Parliament as well as in the elections for the European Parliament. Why am I saying that? I'm talking about Croatia and the whole world being an electoral unit. You know very well that our people outside the Republic of Croatia must use that institute of previous registration in order to go to elections at all which is certainly not good and which is one discriminatory decision or one discriminatory institute. It is certain that there can be talked about increasing polling stations because these places are exclusively in diplomatic consular offices and you know what it means in large countries such as Argentina, Canada, America and Australia and it is simply not good. You're also aware of that, and it's related to the fact that they may have had before, the state had certain lists to liquidate our people out there. Today, the Law of residence I would dare say, and that is the creation here of the present Minister of the Bauk, we have the most massive liquidation of Croats in their history of the House Act. I know what I'm saying because you know these people don't have the right to reside in the Republic of Croatia, and they didn't do it in the countries they live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74221	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74222	Comrade Babic, you weren't specific, but I understood what you were going to say. So, one Argentina has one Embassy in Buenos Aires and it's the only place of the Argentine Croat vote, and they have the right to vote by the Constitution and by law in this Buenos Aires, and the one who lives in Patagonia thousands of miles away, so they won't travel because of the vote in Buenos Aires to vote. Likewise in the Republic, we have only four seats in the BiH state. Well, nobody's going to, and I'm not going to name now, but some nuts or I don't know the villages of the Domaljevac, or I don't know, the Odjaks, travel to Tuzla, or to Sarajevo or Bihač to vote, not that they won't, but what's his goal, is the interest in voting. It's hard to expect. But this Kukuriku coalition has set such rules for the game. We hope that when someone else gets a chance to act as executive authority, they'll change those things. Besides, just one more second, I've got 56 seconds left. So, here we have already been able to say, Mr and Minister, and also to you, predict the situation which, if they are not premature, elections for the Croatian Parliament, parliamentary elections, and a month after that, there will be elections for the President of the Republic. So there's one date, so we were able to get it together right away to save. If you save, save on that example. Why not? Think about it, Mr. Minister, and I think Babic agrees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74223	HDZ club, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74224	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a law that is very simple, it has all de facto 3 articles because the 4th article talks about when it comes into force. But he carries a lot of traps inside him. Many traps concerning some fundamental human rights, which concern democracy, which concerns good customs in this Croatian Assembly, so I will start with good customs in the Croatian Parliament, which is that the laws relating to certain elections do not change one year before these elections. So, in the year of the election, not even a year before that election. It was a good practice of the Croatian Parliament in these 20 and several years of the existence of the Croatian Parliament, so in 20, from 1990 to 2014, so 24 years of the Croatian Parliament. So it was a good practice not to change the laws regarding these choices in the year of the election. Why am I pointing this out? Because if you already wanted to save 13.2 million kunas, as said here by the proposings and written in this text of the law, then maybe it could have been in a different way. In what way? So here's one specific way to save. So let's say that instead of 300 kunas to be paid to the members of the election board, that amount could be reduced to the level of the daily living, so that would be about 40 percent savings. The same savings that are trying to make through this amendment of the law. I don't think any of the members of the election board would mind paying off one diary like it pays off to everyone else who's in state services, etc. So, instead of 300 kuna, we have the possibility, as this law says, as it has said before that the amount of compensation referred to in paragraph 4 of this article is determined by the State Election Commission. The state election commission could simply say the amount to be given to members of the electoral committees is the height of one diaries which is exactly that much in the Republic of Croatia. So 40% less than this amount received by members of the election boards. The question arises whether the ruling coalition expects the new elections to be the slightest response because it is precisely the reduction of members of the electoral committees. Will we be in a situation that in a few years to reduce that number to one or two members as someone here has noticed that it may be happening in some polling stations and has challenged members, or observers. So I think that we are in danger of a process that should be a ceremony of democracy because it is indeed the elections, it should be a ceremony of democracy, to bring it down to administrative measures to reduce the deficits of the state budget. It is, of course, very bad for democracy and democratic... So that's one question. The second issue that is raised here is the issue of immunity, which is in line with the rules of the European Parliament and the question of the requirement to abolish the immunity of members of the European Parliament, which can be submitted by the competent court, i.e. the State Attorney's Office, which concerns the regulation which is in the European Parliament and which clearly speaks about it, such immunity is enjoyed by members of the European Parliament and there is, in fact, nothing controversial, but this issue which is a fundamental issue, the question, therefore, of the number of members of the electoral committees, could have been quite clearly resolved in a different way to remain the number that is present and to reduce, therefore, the amount to the level of one daily. We also want to talk here about some topics that have been opened in the debate so far, and about the equality of Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, today's issue is more than clear that the Croats outside Croatia have been brought into an unequal position, but is already in one replica before my presentation, it has already been pointed out. Unfortunately, Croatian citizens are not equal when it comes to the right to vote, when it comes to electoral rights outside the Republic of Croatia. Because indeed the fact that they can only vote in consular representations of the Republic of Croatia raises the fundamental right of them as citizens. And he questioned because the fact that they had to apply before they could approach the vote puts them in an unequal position. The most obvious example and the obvious main reason for insisting on the left hand side or left opposition parties that just such an article that is narrative nature included in the Constitution is actually the kind of blackmail that they then carried out, has shown in practice that Croats outside Croatia are therefore Croatian citizens who are citizens like us here, as well as our fellow citizens in the Republic of Croatia that they have been disproved. Imagine in BiH traveling 200km to the polling post, imagine in the conditions in which BiH operates today? Is that possible and how is that possible? Imagine people who are 70, 80, 90 years old who can't physically come because of their illness, and we know how to deal with it in the Republic of Croatia, by having members of the electoral committees and not by chance having 10, that some members of the electoral committees go to visit a person who is sick and who can then exercise their right to come to that person and allow them to vote, a secret vote as well as all other voters, like all other citizens of the Republic. This is not the right of Croatian citizens of BiH. Why? Well, probably because the left coalition isn't satisfied with the results of the election. Will she be satisfied if she's as 100% as she is a case from a few days ago in North Korea, will you be satisfied then? Then will you be satisfied when it's 100% and it's 100%? I hope that such processes will not live in the Republic of Croatia, although there are some indications that some would like to do so, some indications such as shutting down parties. There are signs like that. That leads to it, that leads to 100%. On the contrary, 100%, I agree with a colleague who was saying this in the replica is a mandatory vote in countries that have a very well-developed democracy. It is mentioned in Belgium, which is true, where there is even a fine for those who do not go to the elections and have to bring really the right justification for their failure to vote in order to avoid that fine. It's so arranged in Belgium. Or one Denmark we really consider a state that is very well-organised, which is democratic, which has very high democratic standards, also has a mandatory vote. But this proposal ahead of us is about to reduce the number of members of the election boards because fewer voters are expected to vote. I think these issues are fundamental issues for the development of democratic standards in the Republic of Croatia and for issues to be addressed. The issue of polling stations for Croatia outside Croatia needs to be resolved in a different way, it is more than clear today. He cannot leave unequal other Croatian citizens. The question of introducing a letter vote, why not? Why not give them a letter vote, why not give them a letter vote in Croatia, why not? Why not give people the right to choose? Who's in the interest of people not having the right to choose, who? I think you're wondering why you're making it impossible for Croatian citizens outside Croatia not to exercise their right to vote? Well, that's a fundamental right in all democratic states. Thanks for throwing me away. I thank you for throwing me and our club a very serious question. Of course, it will be very complicated when preferential votes are counted and, of course, it is not simple to follow the whole process and of course it took 10 members of the electoral committees if nothing else for this reason that I have mentioned, which is the departure of members of the electoral committee to visit those persons who cannot physically come to the polls who wish to exercise their right to vote. So I think it's clear our proposal that can be believed to be acceptable to the government's representative. To save, save in a way that is proposed to the DIP or in a conversation with the DIP to propose a reduction in the amount for members of the electoral committees, not to reduce the number of members of the electoral committees. It will be a much fairer solution, much more people will participate in this process. I don't think it's some kind of profit, no one thinks it's some kind of profit. But that amount of the journal will be quite enough for people who do quality and moral work to really deserve that journal, and that's not worth it because everyone else who has the right to the diary knows what that journal is. Are they teachers in schools, in colleges, are they persons employed in state and public enterprises, so they all have the same amount of daily living that represents a 40 percent savings. Here on behalf of the club I can say that if you accepted such a way not to reduce the number of election committees from 10 to 6 but to remain the same, but with a reduction of 300 kuna to the amount of the daily living amount, which means the same 40 percent savings would be acceptable to us to these amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74225	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas that are six. First respected Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74226	Comrade Matusic, you said it was a good practice in Croatia in the Parliament that election laws do not change one year before the elections. What doesn't matter about this bill, and it's basically not true. That's not true. And that practice lasts 20 years. That's not true. In the 1990s, we had almost regular cases of election laws, electoral units, so important provisions of the electoral right that significantly determine the election process and affect the results of the elections being changed at the last minute. This happened in the '90s, so very rough interference of the ruling in the election process. It was then regulated by the Constitution not to do so. Meanwhile, the provision came out of the Constitution, hoping that it would no longer happen. So that's not exactly what you said. And secondly, what you said to Matusic doesn't matter because this provision, the change of laws, doesn't in any way affect the important things about the election. So it doesn't change the voting model, the electoral units, so it can't in any way affect the election results themselves. Therefore, it may be important but it does not have any effect on the electoral process and on the results of the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74227	Reply to the replica Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74228	So you start with this other thesis colleague, Radosh. If you don't think it matters then cut to one member of the election board, if you think it's not important to reduce the election board members. Cut to one member and we'll see what the score is. So it's important, of course it's important. As for the '90s, well, of course, it was, in the years in which we made a transition from a totalitarian, communist criminal regime to a democratic state that was to be regulated and in war conditions. Of course the rights were changing and that was logical. But after the rules got up, so after 20 years of being absolutely sure it wasn't, there's no need for the election year to change the law. And those were rules that were respected if you wanted at least the last 15 years. These are rules that have been followed for at least the last 15 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74229	Another replica, respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74230	My colleague, this bill is most resented by the reduction in the number of members of the electoral committee because you think that there will be a desecration of democracy because there are elections in the festival of democracy. Yeah, that's what Sanader was saying about the Festival of Democracy and then there was a bus democracy, obviously there's a crisis, so I guess there's no bus for you guys, so now you're worried about how a reduced number will affect the election results. The state gives plenty to political parties. And I'm pushing for the fact that these diaries are being abolished and that they are not being paid to those observers sent by political parties because the political parties are being paid for it. So, obviously, you have the jag for this, too. What I will also tell you, how much we have, because you have now and in your replica, and in the opening of the debate, touched through our history, our Croatian history, the recent history that has been happening. Bad things happened, they were stolen in the elections, people were brought in, ballots were on fire. And even so, you say, a festival of democracy, that lately there hasn't been any and thank God. But the truth is that often it wasn't, these elections were not any festival of democracy but often the resurrection before the court, that last court, because many came to see the late parents there because they voted too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74231	Reply to the replica Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74232	I just don't know what election you mean when you were talking about stealing from the election. Is that what you mean by the last parliamentary elections? Because someone was stealing votes? In which elections, say which, I know at least the last let's say since the last 15 years I know that these elections have been and observed by the OSCE, by the Council of Europe, etc., of course GONG, NGOs who followed the elections etc.. And I don't remember any question about the regularity of those choices being brought. I don't know where you saw it, did you report it to the State's Attorney's office, were they processed, were these persons processed, were they convicted? That would be very interesting to hear from you, fellow give it somewhere at the press conference. At a press conference here or somewhere else, it would be good to do this information so that the Croatian public gets a clear and clear insight into who was stealing, where he stole, in which elections, in which cities, in which polling stations. That would be very interesting to hear. So as for observers who name political parties, they don't get any money. Observers don't win. The members of the electoral committees shall be granted 300 kuna under this law. We suggest they get out of the living room. And that's going to save 40%. That's what we're proposing. I think it's a very rational proposal in this whole situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74233	New replica Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74234	Comrade Matusic, I agree with you that it is not good to change the laws in the year before the election and especially in this way. And as an argument, I will also give a recent amendment to the Law on the Direct Selection of Head of Local Self-Government Units. Under the old law, which was good during the four years of office, there were four crises throughout the country. Under a new law that's similar in this way, we already have over 10 crisis situations at the moment, about 40 crisis situations, and I think I've got 10 choices. Here's my neighboring municipality of Chavelle has been practically on a cold drive with the government commissioner for four months now, and I wonder how much it costs such a stagnation, such a dissatisfaction in the municipality because it's impossible to function, just because it's been going to give power to a representative body who's been elected directly by name and last name, that by not voting the mayor's budget, it can be replaced, that elections are repeated. Here's an example like yours, I don't see any big savings in reducing election board members, especially at this point for a few months, practically 2 months before the election itself, maybe by reducing fees or making the same savings, the quality of their work would remain the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74235	Here's a colleague of Matusic's, you can answer a colleague of Claric's who agrees with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74236	So here I will agree with him, agree with him, especially because we have warned those who have proposed the law that these problems will arise and that in some units of local self-government there will be a blockade of the behaviour of these duties and the functioning of representative authorities or executive authorities, so anyway, one and the other and we have such situations today, unfortunately in a large number, quite large number. Those who proposed this had to be prepared for the consequences of such a law and I agree with you that we had a cycle of four local choices that showed one stability, in which the very clear rules that were applicable to all and indeed if there was a need for some minor confectional changes could have been made, but a rougher entanglement in certain rights and mixing the powers of executive and representative authorities actually comes to this situation that you are talking about. And of course, this proposal to reduce the amount for members of the election board is much more concrete, better and clearer about saving than reducing the number of members, which raises the question and regularity of the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74237	Replica, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74238	You mentioned Mr. Representative amongst other things, shutting down the parties. Normally, I don't think there's anyone normal who would be for such an option, but if the party turned into a criminal organization, why not shut down a party or a party like that. Who can ask? This may be requested by the President of the Republic, the Parliament, the Government, the Supreme Court, the DORH, Mr Bauk, who carries out the registration of the parties, and a normal decision by the Constitutional Court. We read a lot of comments after this verdict and I think I read a title that is new to Croatia today. After the verdict, Croatia will be without Sanader, and everything else will be more or less I dare say the same. But it is also the fact that Mr. Bajic has made a huge step and has changed Croatia in some way. Why will it remain more or less the same, because simply the system is powerless, it cannot simply follow all these small Fimi media throughout the Republic of Croatia. He's focused on one ok, and how deep he's gonna get, we're just gonna see. However, there is another small detail. Here's what I said a few days ago for a Parliament speaker when the SDP was late one day to submit an audit report without taking any lip, or anyone using it, or profiting from it, is being punished for SDP with 5 million kuna. HDZ is also given a fine of 5 million kuna, so clearly you have to return those 24 or I don't know how many million kunas although it's clear that it's just the top of my ice dream. Well, you can't expect someone to see right through your fingers. We're all against shutting down parties in principle, but if someone were to engage in such matters, why not? That will be decided by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74239	The replica matches Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74240	My colleague Cain, I find it very interesting that your thesis that no one normal can be about shutting down the parties. The second thing you said about Fimi Media and many similar ones, so I think we've warned here about a possible legal instrument in which billions could be talked about, and these are pre-emptive settlements. It's probably the legal instrument someone takes, or doesn't pay the state billions of kuna. Forgiveness. What criteria have we already clearly concluded, not us but experts, court experts, law school experts, which we have said very clearly that it is an amazing instrument that absolutely has as a criterion a political criterion. So in billions of kunas. And what you mean by crimes, do you kill people when you talk about assumptions about shutting down parties. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74241	Replica, Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74242	Thank you very much. Comrade Matušić, I am for saving but I am not for these cosmetic changes that are proposed here. For saving, I did, but this money to be used for smarter purposes, to enable Croats in the diaspora to arrive easier, shorter arrival to the polling post or introduce a correspondence vote. And finally, if we want to save, and we all want it in these difficult times and times of crisis, why don't we think about it, it applies to you as a proposer, the promoters, why do I think the degree of democracy from year to year in Croatia is growing, and when it comes to all elections, no matter what level it is that we don't think about this honorable House choosing the president of the state. There would be significant savings in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74243	We should change the Constitution. But maybe Frano Matušić will explain it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74244	Yes, it would be necessary to change the Constitution. But it seems to me that this fundamental issue of Croatian citizens outside Croatia and their right to vote must come as quickly as possible to the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, must come. It is not just a question of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatian citizens living in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is also the issue of Croatian citizens living in the United States, it is also a question of Croatian citizens living in Germany, it is a question of Croatian citizens who are located anywhere on the globe of Australia, New Zealand, so to Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is closest to us. And that question must indeed be resolved if we are to equalise Croatian citizens and recognise their constitutional right. Well, they're citizens like us. Would someone in this House now agree to take away the right of Croatian citizens, Croatian citizens who live, say, here in Dubrovnik-Neretva County or Slavonia or anywhere in Istria, Međimurje, etc. Would it be acceptable for this Croatian Assembly if someone wanted to take away the right, and this was taken away from the right. This is concrete, unfortunately this is concrete and this is the result of those changes that the SDP insisted on. That's the result. My people if you're not aware, so look what's going on, look what's going on in those elections. So people are not in a position to exercise their fundamental constitutional right, the fundamental constitutional right is not an opportunity to achieve it. Of course, the issue must come to the agenda of the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible. If we really want to be a democratic state that recognises equal rights to all citizens. This is about the European Parliament resolution. Unfortunately, on the European Parliament resolution, the right to abortion is also trying to raise the issue of fertility He tried to get into that resolution, and that's why he was against it. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Not because we are against equality between men and women, but because the right to abortion and gender aspect is trying to get through that resolution where the left has insisted and fortunately has not passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74245	Thank you very much. Let's go from abortion to a new replica, Mladen Marelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74246	Thanks, buddy. Comrade Matušić, you and the rest of these days we hear lessons here tell us about our behavior, about everything we behave, about what we do. Go back to yourself and talk about yourself and those things. We're talking about reducing the number of members of the election board today. Let's talk about it and campaign financing. On the ground what's going on, how it's funded, and if everything's transparent. You also talked about where it's a large number of votes almost 100%. Yeah, you had them 100%. Where there were no electoral controls, the members of the constituency committees of the other party were fine-tuned and there was a 99% turnout. That's it. And we are talking today about members of the European Parliament's electoral committees we are reducing to six. Since the Croatian state was set up, we have constantly six members of the election committees for local elections and parliamentary elections. I don't think we're going to make any difference between parliamentary elections and local elections or parliamentary and European elections. We have the same number. If it pleases, so I think it will satisfy these factors of behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74247	The replica matches Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74248	I don't know what experiences you're talking about, probably your own when you're talking about these experiences, and I don't know where it was 100% date and 100% score. If it was 100% exit and 100% score, so if there were 100% voters, that doesn't mean they voted for one party. I've never heard of such an example anywhere. I've heard of maybe 60 to 70% percentages, but that's common, that's normal, 60 to 70% in local elections in smaller areas is local and expected. That's quite the result of the election. Unfortunately, these changes you are now introducing will lead to a reduction. The last time we had only twenty percent to go to elections for the European Parliament. With these changes, you will ultimately lead to an even greater reduction. It is clear, therefore, that these changes are not well assessed, that they could be saved if it is indeed a fundamental intensity, the fundamental intention of the proponents to reduce the amount and save millions of kunas. As many as 13.2 million kunas are mentioned. This could have been in a different way than we suggested by reducing the amount from 300 kuna to the amount of one daily, and that's 40 percent savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74249	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the SDSS club, the esteemed Milorad Pupovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74250	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The party's own democratic party's club of representatives, of course, supports better regulation and cheaping, hence better regulation of the electoral process, as well as the cost of election costs. However, what needs to be taken into account as already in some discussions has already been pointed out whether this is fully in line with constitutional provisions. So the basic question, Mr. Minister, is whether the Constitutional Law on the Implementation of the Constitution and this bill are clashing anywhere. In other words, whether, as counterpart Matusic pointed out the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution, which say the electoral legislation cannot be changed in the year before the elections were held and the elections for the European Parliament. Or there are some exceptions that existed in 2011 when the provision of the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution regarding amendments and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Law on Elections for Representatives in the Croatian Parliament was ignored when elections for representatives of national minorities were held. When the Constitutional Court created the assumption that it could act against its own law, which means the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution. I don't have the last word for it, but we'd like to hear your testimony about it. Secondly, as for the cheaping and reduction of the number of board members, we support the cheaping, but we agree that we should consider whether this is the only way to make it cheaper by reducing the number of board members. What if members of the board should go to elderly and powerless persons, to sick and those who cannot reach polling stations? Will the reduction of members of the electoral committees cause difficulties in the work of the board and will it make it impossible for the board members to reach people who need their help, or their arrival so that they can hold a vote before them? That's a question we'd like to hear your answer to. The second question about the reduction is whether it will not be done in this way, and we would like to hear your answer, will not in this way actually retain the principle that all parties can give, who participate in the party parliamentary life, can give their representatives to the election committees, and that this principle of reduction of numbers is actually questioned in part and that this thing is actually divided only between large parties or larger parties and that smaller parties actually remain short sleeves in relation to this kind of division or that they will eventually get crumbs that will fall from the table of good faith by large political parties? And that means eventually their needs for small political parties and their members of the electoral committees. That should certainly be clarified. And the possible dangers that arise in this regard should be eliminated. In some areas, at least 10 electoral committees will not be sufficient. Because of the majority of individual municipalities and because of the spread of certain municipalities or settlements within these municipalities, at least 10 polling boards or at least 10 polling stations will be a problem, especially if local leaders or local parties estimate that, say, 6 or 7 or 8 polling stations are much better than 10. Because they know that certain communities vote and they know that those environments cannot, say, roll over, say, 15 or 20 km to the next polling station, or their constituents. Who's going to oversee that? The State Election Commission, or will it be a matter of the free will of the municipal councils, or of the municipal chiefs, the mayors who have already made their statutes according to their own political judgments, which are good for them? Is it good for them to have 15 councilmen, or are they better to have nine councilmen in their municipal councils? Not better for the citizens, but better for them for the outcome. And if they are guided by it, and why not be managed if it is in their interest, if it brings them political benefits and provides them with political victory, then the question is whether it can be manipulated. So please tell us how and how to avoid that kind of danger that is serious. We're, if you'll let me now about this law, two things. So it's no small thing to save 13 million and 500 grand or as much as on this item and on this. Of course we think we should save in each segment when it comes to the cost of the state, when it comes to the cost of election procedures. We have five election cycles in Croatia. We have elections for the President of the Republic, we have elections for the national parliament, we have elections for the European Parliament, we have elections for local self-government and we have elections for minority councils. The political parties involved in this or the groups involved indeed have heavy and significant costs. There's a state of them. And it's time to think about whether we can be more rational in this process. Not only in this item, but also in the ways in which the election procedures and the choices we can have are conducted. This would, in my opinion, bring more results on the one hand, and on the other hand would probably improve and improve the quality of democratic processes in the country itself. But something much more important than this story of this kind of savings or savings on car tyres as the story started here or as our democratic media feeds our democratic public, and they forget the basic facts as we do about EU legislation, we forget our participation in European institutions. Is it not much more important for colleagues and colleagues and Mr. Minister, is it not a much more important question how much money has been invested in the Republic of Croatia than the owners of banks or telecommunications companies made in Croatia in the past year? How much? Is one kuna in what? Is our job here to ask that question and wouldn't it be more useful for the Republic of Croatia and its citizens if, as in the case of INE, we asked why there are no serious investments as defined by the contract? So that we could ask the question here especially in the years of serious and difficult savings, especially in the context of the lack of money for investment, so that we could ask a question, well, if the money earned on loans with the state of Croatia and with citizens or citizens of the Republic of Croatia is not invested in the Republic of Croatia but goes beyond the border, so that we could not recall the stories of foreign exchanges that go to Belgrade and not invest in Croatia. And where these audits go now, where that money goes now. It is much bigger and is much more important than these poor 13 million and than those poor tires for cars bought by our officials, but we are not even discussing that perspective at all, and we are talking about it in the context of our membership in the EU, and the primary assumption of membership is equality, is justice. If Mr. Minister, I'm putting it up to you as a member of the government, it's not your portfolio, but it is a matter of government policy, whether this cheaping that's achieved by this bill will increase the cost of working in our country and secure better earnings for our workers, no, but we will get a labour law here that will bring down the additional labour price. We're going to get a bill of law that will further tear down salaries for workers, and that's what this is about. This is the meaning of future, present and future representatives in the European Parliament to ask this kind of question and ours too here. Because the fate of our people here, our workers aren't just tailored here anymore, they're heading out of our country, and for that reason it seems to me that these are the real issues, that these are the real savings, that this is the question of real measures or real equality, and not what we started today. For this reason, if Mr. Ministers first and foremost on these first issues, on the issue of compliance with the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution, on the question of the consequences of a reduction in the number of members of the electoral committees for the availability of voters who are powerless, old, sick and who are likely to be able, that is to say, to reduce the number of polling stations and thus affect the possible outcome of the vote, if you give us the answers we will consider acceptable to us, then the Single Democratic Party Club will accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74251	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, first Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74252	Dear fellow Pupovac, it is good that you too have pointed out the importance of agreeing on these possible amendments to the law because voters in Croatia will come out on May 25th and have the opportunity to go to elections for members of the European Parliament. The possible consensus in the Croatian Parliament on this bill can greatly affect the turnout of people in Croatia on these elections, and if we agree to achieve the goal of saving and reducing the cost of the electoral process, but not at the expense of transparency at the polling post, we will send a strong message to the citizens and citizens of this country that we care about preparing the elections without political conflicts, to send a message of invitation, a joint invitation for people to go to these elections as much as possible. And that is why I believe that the two amendments we have offered are also on the trail and the proposing's wishes to cut costs and also our defensive views that this does not go to the expense of transparency at the polling station. There is only one problem, the power to determine the amount of fees and members of election committees and election committees is on the state election committee. Therefore, neither the Government nor the Parliament and our appeal and the Parliament decide to the National Election Commission that, because of the total savings and efforts, the cuts in costs, they are indeed reduced. The only way, officially how different it is for these people to appeal to understand what we're talking about and to go with that kind of reduction, and that's the point that we all seem to agree on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74253	Second replica Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pupovac, you mentioned at one point a sentence or words of poor 13 million kuna. I would not say that 13 million kunas are in a crisis where the Croatian state is a miserable sum. This is quite a large amount, but in any case, these issues of yours concerning both election committees and the number of members of the election board and the Electoral Commission itself should definitely be made possible by the citizens, in my opinion that they can go to elections as close as possible and vote. And on the other hand, you definitely don't need so many Electoral Commissions because indeed the Electoral Commissions in certain cities can practically do the job and for the surrounding municipalities, we can say it that simplistically. So I also don't think that it would violate the election process itself if the number of members of the election board were 6, not 10, because, realistically, six people can do the job without any problem, regardless of how small parties will certainly be less represented, we will probably have observers in that part, or in some other way, to solve our interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74255	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74256	Dear colleague Hrg, of course, I don't think that 13 and a half million kuna is a miserable money under any circumstances, but compared to billions that are poured from our financial institutions annually into the financial institutions of other states that we play as if they were a normal process, it is a miserable 13 and a half billion. But if you want to deal with how long it will take a woman to have a baby in Croatia so you don't care about how these children live and how children live today, you can do it as you do so far. But my question is, what are we going to feed our children with? And that's a very specific question. What are we going to train our children with? With this kind of cheaping, not taking care of where our money goes and how equal we are to other countries, we certainly won't achieve it. Otherwise, we will be in a position to treat Zagreb as well as the Central Authority to the municipal authorities. Take them all and then give them something back. So do we, they take everything from us, and we'll deal with whether we have the right to tires and whether we can have the right to 6 or 10 members of the election boards. That's the kind of story I'm talking about, and I'm not gonna accept my club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74257	The position of the HNS club will be presented by Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74258	Mr. Vice President and Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, there have been talks here about the vote of Croats outside Croatia in elections which is not a direct topic of this law, there have been talk of buying cars, which is also not a direct topic of this law, so if I continue to ask a fundamental question of all elections. What about those elections that were won in an unfair way, the illegal way, the basis of which was created by the parliamentary majority, a government that then passed the laws of this country and questioned the legality and legitimacy of its action? This is a big question that should be asked when it comes to electoral legislation, but I will not ask that question, or I will not say opinions about it because I generally believe that discussions should always be held on the scale, not always on the same things. Almost all of our discussions look exactly the same because very rarely on boards, and especially on... we are not talking about the measure of things but always about current political issues that occupy the public and that is why I will not open these issues. But when it comes to the electoral system in general, then certainly those questions need to be answered and expressed views, courts, answered to these questions, therefore, not just to ask them. With regard to the scales of this law, it is logical that each country is responsible for trying to reduce all costs it can because it is not the idea that the state employs its fellow citizens or even through working in the Election Commissions, or the election boards, but to create conditions for them to be employed outside what the state finances, therefore saving, rational management of taxpayers' money is the task of each modern and regulated state and this proposal is logical. It comes in some way from the profession, namely this is a proposal from the State Election Commission. If a State Electoral Commission which has no specific motive or the authority to worry about the budget of the Republic of Croatia has made such a proposal, it is certainly possible, if possible, to do so. So, some of the adverse consequences of this law, the bill should not be expected. Here it was talked about in this context and the price of democracy, so I will also be mildly evaluating these discussions about the price of democracy, that it is often a game, I will not go beyond that, so I will only give two very close examples. When we did not join elections for the European Parliament last year and local elections, then we kept talking about how 70 million kuna was spent, that was very important at the time, that was the main theme of the European elections, and then those who put it were talking at the end, and why we are not opening up the right topics, and they have just imposed the price of the elections, or the cost of the elections, so that after a few months when it came to a referendum that was in line with their political views in their political interest, in some way the issue of costing that referendum was no longer an important issue. It's that game, it's that unprincipledness, but I'm saying I won't stick around on that issue any further than this. As far as this bill is concerned, since the draft law fundamentally amends it comes from the DIP, I expect it to determine exactly the optimum. This is not a political issue, it should not be a political issue, it should be a matter of functional balance whether these 6 members of the electoral committees and 10 election committees to the municipal and city election committee can be well distracted by work, although it can be done technically there are no political reasons it does not seem. This, however, raises the issue of other elections. Namely, there is talk of those elections that show up only one ballot voter. These are these elections, these are referendums, but the only choices that can be held regularly are two, sometimes three, and sometimes four ballots are local or regional elections, because you have two ballots mandatory, so regional and local levels, and then somewhere you have a lower level of local committees, and somewhere you have minority choices. So 4 ballots may also appear at the time, and these elections would indeed be difficult to deal with with with with a smaller number of members of the electoral board and with a higher number of election committees according to the electoral commission of the city or municipality. But I don't see why this wouldn't be with parliamentary elections where in most cases you have one ballot, only when it comes to minority elections you have multiple ballots, and they're not common and it's a much easier vote. In theory, here it can happen that if you have an average of 20a-ac list for European elections and 11 candidates, 20 times 11 that's 220, thank you Boro, I would somehow manage it myself. So you potentially have 220 positions to count, and when you have parliamentary elections you have 40-ac lists, let's say twice as many lists, you only have 40-ac positions to count, so this count may be more demanding than counting in the elections for the Croatian Parliament because there is only sometimes an additional ballot for minority elections. So the change should be considered for further rationality, the change in the rule that it does not matter whether two or one ballot in the elections is really only one ballot here but which is the scope of the work of the electoral committees and election committees of municipalities and cities or all other senior election committees. But this as well as a decision on whether to accept the amendment of a colleague from the Croatian Labour Club should be left to those who know, who are better referred to both the functionality and technology of the process and also to the spatial deployment of the electoral committees. Fellow Labourists say the amendment they propose would be 20 electoral committees under an electoral commission of the municipality and the city would not concern the island, which is certainly fine, but there are parts of Croatia in which it may be a problem. Therefore, the less populated parts of Croatia may have been difficult to do in the functioning and operation of this job if it was 20 per election commission, then the question, the decision on whether it is optimal or optimal, what the Government has proposed we leave to a representative of the Government or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that this is good, that it will not compromise the quality of the electoral process, that it will bring savings, and that should also be the principle in times of well-being, and not only in times of crisis, and that is why the club of HNS representatives supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74259	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first one was Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74260	Thank you. I think that the Croatian public would be interested when you opened and touched as you said in the opening part of your address so that the Croatian public would be interested in what elections were irregular and illegal. What members of the DIP for the implementation of the illegal elections, what year? which members of the electoral committees are you accusing of illegal elections? What members of the election committees are you accusing? Well, I think the Croatian public should know. In addition to the fact that no international body that followed the elections in Croatia has ever declared some of the elections irregular, illegal. No NGO that followed the elections from GONG has further declared any results of the elections in Croatia illegal, illegal and that there has been theft in these elections. If there were irregularities, and there were irregularities likely in all elections of certain irregularities but these irregularities were also seen and elections at certain polling stations were repeated and were supervised by all relevant authorities and there were no illegal election results. Tell us, tell the Croatian public what the results of the election are irregular? If you won't tell the Croatian public the international public. You're better known for that if you won't tell the Croatian public. The second thing, you were talking about a referendum, of course, is that every referendum should be supported that receives legally envisaged conditions by citizens, so citizens' support. Tell me why you are now holding back this matter with a referendum that the citizens have put before the Croatian Parliament? Here, tell the Croatian public, tell those citizens who have gathered enough votes to carry out this referendum question that the Croatian public is being shown, why are you holding it back?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74261	Time. The replica matches Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74262	First of all, from the end of my colleague Matušić, I'm not holding anything back. And as for these other questions you've asked, I'm not sure that a HDZ representative should be asking such questions, I don't think that's particularly clever. I didn't mean individual cases of election committees and election committees. In the last few years in Croatia we are mostly, in my opinion, a great contribution and the quality of our democracy, we have not disputed the elections even though some of these elections have been made sloppyly, first of all the electoral lists. Well, in some ideal situation, the very fact that you have more citizens on the polling list than you can choose would be enough to disqualify some choices, but that wasn't the problem and was not the reason for contesting elections and was not the reason for not recognising the legitimacy and legality of the chosen authority which was a big thing and could be done and that. I hope that's the question behind us. I asked my colleague Matusic about campaign financing. If a government is won on the money it steals, that fact puts into question the legitimacy and legality of the government and everything that that government does, and that's the problem. The question should be asked, discussed, but the proposal for this law is very narrow and therefore I said this question should be asked when it is discussed in general about the electoral system of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74263	Replica Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74264	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Radosh, I don't know what you mean, but I assume you were referring to these last elections received by the Kukurik coalition. Because Mr. Rados is not only determined by the players of the election results, there are other players who, with their work and configuration, some timings etc., can significantly determine the election results and processes in the country etc.. But it's not the subject of my replica. You said you objected to some people I was amongst them. What were they looking for? To link elections for the European Parliament and local elections. And what we also required to recognise the referendum, to hold a referendum on both the subject and that. What you're comparing these two things, it's arrogant to perversion in a demagogue sense, obnoxious to perversion. And you know why? Because, you know, it's clear to you that the local and European elections, it's only been three weeks apart and we haven't been valued, they could connect. It was just a matter of technique and saving 70 million. And you were contesting the referendum that he couldn't be held and we were saying it had to be held. And these two topics, you must be proud of the perversion to expose it here from the Croatian Parliament's pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74265	The replica matches Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74266	You've told your colleague Marasovic three times "worship to perversion" and you've seemed forgetful to dementia. You're talking about not admitting the results of the referendum, so what are you talking about? So this referendum was held in accordance with the law, with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the results of that referendum are part of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In what sense against that referendum. [[Stazic's intrusion: Do not throw it to your colleague Marasović.]] [[(Speakers speaking out loud) You don't understand.]] As far as joining the elections is concerned, at that time we felt and today I think that a clear picture of what is the result, which is the goal of some elections, a clear identification of the programs and people who will be chosen, and this separation of choices means more important than these 70 million kunas, and I am now in that position. And when it comes to the Kukurik coalition and singers, that's not what a colleague of Marasovic is talking about. The issue is that, according to some elections, parliamentary elections in the Republic of Croatia and local elections were won with stolen money. And that fact raises the legitimacy and legality of the bodies created in these elections, and that is not the Kukuriku coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74267	It's a new replica of Denesh Shaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned certain amounts related to this material side, i.e. financial, that aspect of the elections that at the state level have a price of 40, 50 or even 70 million kuna. When compared to the state budget, then it may be smaller in relative relations or when comparing local elections where the choice of one deputy head financed by the local community from the 4.5 million kuna budget costs more than 200 000. This issue certainly has a financial aspect and another problem is the component of the composition of the commission. But the greatest absurd is that, I am also telling you, and especially to a member of the Government to Mr. Minister, the absurd is that the election commission award is especially for the outside members because the new one has a commission and there is an external all in the interest of democracy proposed by the State Election Commission and the height is determined by the Government and paid from the budget of the local self-government. And I have to say it quite openly for some outside members who have in the whole process just a task of nothing more or symbolic to sign a certain record for 3600 or 3800 kuna. So please nicely, down in the field explain it to people, to those who cut vineyards for a month for that money it's not easy, and we all stand for workers, for a small man, etc. That moment I think we should take into account, just like this other aspect of the composition of these commissions where local self-government has virtually no possibilities...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74269	Thank you, colleague Shaw. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74270	That our lawyers from Baranja mostly participate very rarely, and all of this is filled with lawyers...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74271	Thank you very much. Next replica Boris Blazekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74272	Thank you very much. Nothing, I think I've already been answered, namely I wanted to ask Mr. Rados what he meant, but that question was asked by my colleague Matusic, so there is no reason at this point for me to specifically ask him that question, and we will probably discuss it a little more when it comes to a final verdict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74273	Thank you. And last replica Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74274	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Rados, you spoke of irregularities that were answered by others, but it is necessary to distinguish between so-called. post-election and pre-election engineering. So, at the time of the election, there's a so-called. post-election engineering where money and other things are used to form coalitions of the government. So there's that doorknob you're talking about. Like, for example, We have a situation, right now we have a situation in Osijek where both your party and SDP and HDZ, all in one coalition and against the HDSSB. So it's post-election engineering in which your party participates well. In what way and how? So by dividing places in all possible supervisory and other committees that the City of Osijek has. What I especially wanted to tell you is that you well explained the complexity and scope of the election board's affairs when counting so-called. The preferred votes in the European Parliament election and you said it was a relatively large number when you have 220 names to determine therefore the preferential number of votes. And in the end, you said in the beginning that you would accept this law. Although the complexity of the affairs is very large, you have described it, but you will agree to a reduction in the number of members of the election board from 10 to 6 so I do not understand that logic, logic of thinking about it. ... In the end, you explained that it would actually be good for all elections to have six members of the electoral committees, of any kind, up to elections for local committees, local elections, for the state, presidents of the Republic, etc. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now who's...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74275	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74276	Who changed the Law on the number of members of the electoral committees? Your coalition...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74277	Time fellow Grubisic. We have an answer, Comrade Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74278	My colleague Grubisic, the word engineering is very complex... which means post-election engineering, but if you think of the agreement of the ruling majority at the level of state, county and cities it is a normal political process and that is how democracy works. The fact that someone calls it political trade and, in fact, about a completely inevitable process of forming power speaks in a negative way is another question. The second thing is, of course, if this political trade involves dishonest, dirty, illegal actions, bribery, etc., then that's the problem. First, not only is this not a problem but the only possible way to get to the authority that should meet what the citizens expect from the authorities. So is taking responsibility for the management. I did not notice fellow Grubisic that when the HDZ is somewhere in power to allow members of HDZ, HNS and SDP to be members of various administrative bodies. If that's your position to open the procedure, then give the HDZ members in Slavonia, the CNS, to be members of those bodies. So that's what you do, and you object to others, which is completely inconsistencies. As far as the proposal is concerned, I said it was a proposal from the DIP. I guess the DIP colleague Grubisic, who's been running this procedure, has been monitoring it for years, better than you or me, knows whether 6 is optimal or 10 is optimal. I have confidence in the DIP proposal, and if that proposal is bad, then I guess the president, a member of the government, will judge it. And in the end, I didn't suggest that local elections reduce the number of polling stations, the number of members of the election board because there's the biggest job, I didn't propose it. I didn't suggest it. I didn't talk about it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74279	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74280	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister and Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. I support this Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the selection of members in the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia. I believe that just a reduced number of members will not only lead to savings in the budget, for the budget of the Republic of Croatia, which is particularly important to us, but on the other hand, that it will in no way interfere with or threaten the credibility of the elections. And they were, in many ways, up to one, back a few years questionable, many and above all ways of funding and what is now going on in front of our courts, the funding from a black bag where therefore the voters were generously donated in different ways and the money of those who would never vote for that party. But those times, I hope, are once and for all behind us. What is also a significant newspaper, which is that our law so far has not had a regulated issue of abolishing immunity to a member of the European Parliament and that this bill is in line with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament. We have determined, here it is in the proposal, I think it is a good solution that a request to abolish immunity to such a member can be filed by a competent court, or the State's Attorney's Office. Whenever, given the urgency of the proposal for a law with first and second reading, therefore, allow me to say something with the final proposal of the law, and what is essentially this bill that we are going to go to European elections means to citizens. And what does that election even mean for the citizens? For the election and freedom of choice is not that someone is committed to this, the one, the first, the second, or the third, but for which they are assigned. And it is clear to people today when it comes to these elections, and many want to cover it up by starting with the European Union's dominant majority who don't talk about it at all. And that's why I'm gonna take this opportunity to say something about it. And at which point, given what is currently happening in the EU and what has been happening to us most conservatively, and what and who contributes to doing so from Croatia. That's what Croatian citizens should be told. It has already been mentioned here today, and it has to be mentioned several times that it never happens again. Namely, that Croatian, that the euro-parliamentaries coming from Croatia, although from HDZ, and that is not important, the HSP voted against the Report on equality between men and women when it comes to their salaries. Isn't that a shame? Next, at what point do these elections also take place? At a time when many countries are considering introducing immigration quotas and who? Citizens of the European Union, I guess, from countries that are less valuable. At the same time that conservatives also threaten to abolish or raise the biggest liquid of the largest European Union project, which is the freedom of movement of people, not just goods and services, because it can come to Romania and Bulgaria any goods. But the issue also raises many countries in the European Union are thinking about quotas. Besides, these choices are I'd say and that's a message to the citizens that they mean to them. They're historic. What does that bring them? He says it's none of my business. It's a small turnout. They are historic because they can reverse the relationship of power and enable European Social Democrats and left to come to power and change this economic policy that is from EU countries, from the welfare countries, you see they laugh. To change, so an economic model. Because all those who have led to this, and have led precisely to the rule of the European right, conservatives who have rejected the proposals of the European Social Democrats and left to curb the financial market, to regulate. The economic consequences are experienced by everyone, some more, some less. It's not anymore, because of the way it is no longer the Europe our fathers know, our grandfathers know. Many here have parents who worked in Germany and whose children were educated and have had a good life here thanks to their hard work. After all, not only that, Europe has divided into the rich north and into the poor south, into rich regions and poor regions, which has contributed greatly to the way of such a policy, which has specifically meant for these southern countries to be countries of service and to destroy their industry. And that's the consequences now. This is what European Social Democrats plan to re-indust Europe in particular, South Europe. Everyone could benefit from that. This would lead to strong employment, as many young people are unemployed there, fortunately not as much as in Croatia. Because the poorer and smaller countries have felt the greater burden of such a crisis. And now what is also most dangerous is that precisely because of such an economic situation, the crisis serves to eliminate or raise political freedoms that have never been questioned before. I repeat myself in this vote on the report. Once, a few years ago, this could not have happened in the European Parliament. So now there are dangers and women. Why would they have a higher salary? They too are released first and also at European Union level. Next, we're standing up there, and we're gonna stand up for what's-his-name. Robin Hood Act, Act of Tax, Tax on transaction. In this way, between 80 billion and 200 billion euros per year would be added to the European budget. You can imagine what an injection would be exactly for poorer countries, for re-industriousness, for investment in investments, for growth, for new employment, and for the write-off of debts to poor countries that have fallen into this situation without their own guilt. So this is one moment that is serious for Croatia because xenophobia, discrimination of different species, so something that was dead in Europe is raising its voice again. So political freedoms are also at stake. Therefore, by passing this bill with those who will come out of our constituents, they should be familiar with both who and why they define themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74281	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74282	Dear Mr. President, colleague Anticevic. You said, you made some remarks at the expense of our representatives in the European Parliament, you connected it with some of the parties in Croatia and you are a temperamental Dalmatian woman, so I will not be so sharp in your replica. You're selling fog within the permitted limits, and I believe this is the result of your lack of information. So, in the matter where our representatives voted against, there was an issue of abortion. Abort, abortion, abortion, child murder abortion. It's not the primary political issue we all know, it's the primary world-famous issue. And that doesn't help men, women, lefts, rights, this, that. There are countries that are more liberal than Croatia, and they are more conservative than Croatia. Learn from the example of Istria. HDZ gets 1 out of 14 there, and Istra voted 45 for that referendum on marriage. So it was a matter of abortion, and you, out of ignorance, disinformed the Croatian public, which is why our representatives voted as they voted. And I thank them for that. Because the issue of abortion must not be marred by the question of equality between women in a different sense, employment, wages, quotas in political parties. That's one thing, an abortion is a third.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74283	Thank you. Answer, colleague Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74284	As hard as you're trying to explain it to people, you're not gonna make it. They voted against equality between men and women and their salaries. And the issue of abortion, you've been in power for eight years, and we have regulated it by the laws, and it hasn't been questioned here at all. What are you talking about now? And besides, you intend to do exactly that kind of policy, some male policy that will train your strength on women's bodies. It will not be a polygon for your failed politics, nor will it ever be in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74285	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague of the Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74286	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President... Let's let the co-worker go first. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, which says, "Advocacy shall not speak of a subject which is not subject to discussion during the debate." With all well-meaning, I have failed to understand what the vote of Members of the European Parliament has to do with the number of members of the electoral committees subject to this law and the jurisdiction of the territorial electoral commissions. I think that's why you should have warned your colleague Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74287	Thank you. The fact is that there are many debates in this assembly to extend the amendments and laws. Then all the speakers so far should be warned because they all went wide. It's one practice, and for that reason, I answer to you that there has been no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. With that, I would also ask that we be correct with our colleagues and colleagues when they argue that we do not throw. And that goes for you too, fellow Anticevic, because this isn't nice that you've said now. Will you announce the violation of the Rules of Procedure in writing? ... Okay, thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm saying I'm calling you because you know the consequences of what's coming out of it. The secretary of the administration called for a word. Here you go, Minister, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74288	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank all the clubs and all the representatives for the constructive debate. So, first that... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74289	Comrade Mesic, I will now give you a warning and please no more. It's not right to do that. Be correct. ... Please calm down, let the minister answer. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74290	May I? So, first of all, I thank all those who participated in the debate, all the clubs and all the MPs. I'd like to answer all the questions concerning this law that are being asked here. First, this section of the election year, let's get rid of it right away. So it's about the code of good practice of the Venice Commission that's talking about
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74291	Minister, one moment please. Comrade Boric, I give you a warning and no more. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74292	So, which makes a recommendation that things should not be subject to changes in less than a year until the election by an act that is larger, or which should then be more levels than the ordinary law. And that's this story of the year. Now, as regards this law specifically last February, the Croatian Parliament unanimously adopted amendments to the Law on Elections for the European Parliament two months before the elections. So in 2013, the Croatian Parliament unanimously adopted amendments to the laws concerning elections for the European Parliament that took place two months afterwards. So this part of the year until the election is not controversial. Now we can get to the content. First, it concerns Article 2 which speaks about election committees in short. So nearly half of the municipal election commissions and some city halls cover less than 5 polling stations. In the current bill of law, namely the current law, there is a provision that the State Election Commission can appoint election committees for several cities or municipalities in the same configuration but that is not done in the previous elections. Now, the question of the Parliament is whether it will in some way give a guide that, of course, is written to the State Election Commission, which criteria are to be guided when it is done in a way that still reduces the number of election committees because there is no need for in several neighbouring municipalities which have one, to have two, to have three polling stations, to have three election committees and one election commission, or a total of 6 election committees and three election committees, and on the other hand in the city of Zagreb we have over 600 polling stations. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74293	My colleagues, please refrain from commenting.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74294	So we have over, I apologize, but I'm a little distracted, so I'm going to repeat the sentence, means that we have over half of the electoral cities and municipalities that have under 5 polling stations and that, unlike maybe local elections in the European elections, there's really a legitimate reason not to name it in every municipality and city of the Electoral Commission, rather than to limit it to one election commission covering at least ten polling stations along with this proposal from the island concerned, which for physical reasons would be awkward for it to be different. That's what election committees are all about. Therefore, local leaders, local authorities do not have any effect on the appointment or designation of polling stations, the election committees are already in the power of the state election commission. In the first two articles of the Law, and there were no objections, which means that I conclude that if the first article is a consensus so as not to violate this rule that Mr Matusic also spoke about whether this practice is 20 years or 10 years, it does not matter. So it is our desire that electoral systems and electoral matters are brought by consensus in this important work. Now there is a question of a reduction in the number of members of the electoral committees. It has its positive and negative sides. And it can really be caricated so let's have one member of the election board two or a counter argument let's make it 20 so that it goes down proportionally. So there's always that argument. This 10 to 6 reduction proposal is a proposal from the state electoral commission. So, we as Government have received a proposal from the State Election Commission in preparation for elections and preparations for the adoption of changes and additions to the state budget and I think it is good to discuss it in the Croatian Parliament because it concerns not only the parties that make up the ruling majority but it is for everyone and it would be good for any, on any side, when such a proposal comes to debate. However, this would be a good discussion of the first reading, indeed, then we could look further at the proposals, but until we vote once again with the DIP, we will consult on this because the power to adopt amounts for a particular member of the electoral committee is in the jurisdiction of the State Election Commission, we have the technical amendment of a club of representatives, and if this is an agreement between the parties and the agreement of the State Election Commission, then we will absolutely remain in this part of good parliamentary practice and I believe that this will be one step forward in some political correctness or mutual understanding of election systems. What will not affect the result of the election, however, is that elections take place in the polling post. The provision on the number of members who must be in the polling post has not been reduced, has not been amended. So there won't be a problem. And he's smaller than the total number of members of the election board. Now the question is whether it is technically good to do so and we will still discuss it and bring it forward, so try at the very least, as the representative of the SDP Club said to the largest, with the largest number of votes possible because such changes are because the first Law on Elections for the European Parliament was adopted and its amendments a month before the elections and the amendments that were due to a directive at the end of last year. Therefore, there is really no reason to cast doubt in any way on the regularity of the election as the majority of the elections in the last few years as to the implementation of the polling stations, so we have come to some level where there have been no large number of objections or any problems, that we are not now entering other debates. Two more things have been touched. One is and this has to do with this law, so I don't go off topic because it's being conducted in polling stations, so the polling stations abroad, in short, are determined by constitutional provisions. As these constitutional provisions were made, you and we probably know, it was 2010. I would remind you that on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament there is a proposal to amend the Constitution. Therefore, both polling stations and a correspondence vote and anything related to the vote of Croats outside Croatia can be covered by constitutional changes, and as regulated, so we will put it into laws, I have nothing else to say to you. I was saying this on behalf of the Government when I represented the Law on Election Register in my first reading, in the second reading I represented the Law on Election Register and when, believe it or not, I represented the Life Partnership Act, because one of the MPs in the Replica told me that there were more people who were discriminated against thinking about them. So that door is open, I can't say otherwise that it stops being a topic. So what's in the Constitution is three MPs, but it doesn't affect voter turnout. The polling stations affect voter turnout, but do not affect the results of these three MPs, therefore it is no problem to have a debate about it, the story is always open. Now, as for the previous registration, as Mr. Babic said, I can only talk about numbers. A referendum on EU accession in 2012 without prior registration to polling stations abroad, this reduced, up to 14,000 voters came out. The elections for the European Parliament and some other elections held by the same voter, so with the previous registration, came out 13,000 voters, 14, 13, so this did not affect the number, the previous registration, but affected a reduction in the number of polling stations, and should be made clear. As far as the MP is concerned, I think Klaric said that, the number of crisis situations in local self-government, they were far more than 4 in terms of the 2009-2013 term, and if under the crisis we mean the disagreement of the majority in the council with the mayor, then it is better to get rid of it in these elections as soon as possible. Well, I think it's more costing them to fight for four years than to try it once. And this example you cited by the mayor provoked the election because he didn't propose, withdrew the budget. So, you've come from the position of chiefs and such discussions have been conducted, so during the adoption of the law, but only in 7 cases, these municipalities and cities will have the opportunity to solve their political problems in the new elections and function normally until the end of the term of office, and not to argue with each other for four years with all possible bodies because of a purely political problem. Well, that's why I think this system is better, and we'll see if next year it escalates into a much larger number of choices, and then we'll do that when it does. There you go. Thank you. Only that, therefore, the government will consider the amendments and, in a desire to pass a law with the largest number of votes, preferably unanimously, also consider the comments made in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74295	Thank you, Minister. Moving to replicas, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74296	Dear Minister Bauk, certainly no one suspects good intentions and laws, but this is one chance to ask one question perhaps to you. Elections for the Euro Parliament, excellent open lists have been accepted, earlier, you have shown your skepticism last year that these open lists will be responded by citizens and we have seen that citizens have managed very well on your Kukurik list, have seen how many people who have a lot of reputation, these citizens have been able to approve, that is, above all, Tonino Picula and other candidates. So I am now asking whether the Kukurik coalition's promise was pre-election and reform of the electoral legislation, i.e. the new electoral legislation. Would you like to propose a law for parliamentary elections that would allow open lists? I think the citizens, if the citizens knew who they were voting for, and the other thing is to make it impossible for party heads to manipulate. Well, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74297	Thank you. Answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74298	So, first of all, as far as my skepticism about open lists is concerned, I don't think it was a skeptic in terms of introducing this institute, but in terms of whether the result with open lists and without open lists in the names of the representatives would be the same, and that skeptic has shown itself, not the skeptic, but the question has proved justified because they would have been chosen in the same way or the other way. The names of the representatives would be equal, all 12, a little different order, but it's not that much. As far as election legislation is concerned, I can say what I said after the pay phone. So everything that can be adopted by consensus, and as far as election legislation is concerned in this important part, so open lists can be passed, but therefore the ruling coalition or now how to express myself, at least on behalf of its party, will not insist on changes, because elections have happened and have been given to those who have the most votes and under this Electoral Law, it has its own good side in the sense that it corresponds to approximately the party composition of the number of votes, and the personal composition of Parliament because of election units corresponds to the regional composition in most parts of Croatia, therefore this is good. What might need to be corrected are election units, if consensus can be reached about it, well, if not, we won't take the risk of being accused of... or of ending the electoral units as appropriate. That's what I'm saying. And as for open lists, I think that they would be good, better at local elections to start with, so, then we should do a little bit of correcting the elections in large cities to be more constituencies, put on a 30-list with 51 candidates, that is very, very, very difficult, for example in the city of Zagreb, so that in this sense we can think, but without a great political consensus, we will not enter into it, at least not recently.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74299	Thank you, Minister. Next replica, Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74300	Thank you. Mr. Minister, it seems to me that there is a good will and assumption and an opportunity to agree on this proposal that I spoke on behalf of the club, and it is not a reduction in the number of members, but a reduced amount for members of the electoral committees. I think that would be much more rational for many reasons. You said that there was one technical amendment to one party, I think it would be good if after this debate actually the Government itself submitted the amendment in such a way because you will again include a number of people who will participate, the amount of savings will be equal to maybe even greater. If we go to the daily today is she 150 kuna so we talked about saving 40% can be that amount at 180, 170... but according to the calculation you obviously got the order to save. We agree with the savings but not in this way but to take advantage of this possibility that exists to reduce the amount, the remuneration of members of the election board. Second thing, you said you had nothing to say, I think you have something to say about polling stations. You invited us to agree on the amendments to the Constitution, you invited us but the Prime Minister did not, the HDZ was not invited to agree and to consult and to discuss that really with one broad consensus without HDZ it would not be a broad consensus and could not be. So you didn't invite us to agree on these changes. But you have to answer are you for these changes to allow the equality of Croatian citizens outside Croatia? Are you personally for the equality of Croatian citizens and the possibility for Croatian citizens outside Croatia to vote in the same way as in Croatia, to allow them the polling stations available to them to exercise their right to vote? And this is not only about elections for the Croatian Parliament, but about elections for the Croatian president and everything else. So you have something to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74301	Thank you. Answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74302	During a debate at the Croatian Parliament for a pay phone, I said that as far as elections for the Croatian Parliament are concerned, we do not have the same voting rights at all but have three voting rights. And that is one thing for citizens who vote on the general lists, the other is for members of national minorities and the third for citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. So when we talk about equality in that part of the mathematical part, it is not yet achieved. And all that has some deep social and political or socio-political reasons why so. And the debate on these reasons is always a matter of constitutional change. And the debate on the rights of individual groups is always sensitive in this sense and it is good to be guided not for any particular reason but for the desire to do something better systematically. We, in the proposal for constitutional changes that are now on the agenda, have, say, the right to protect minorities and certain human rights, which I believe again that you are, we have a proposal for non-determination of certain crimes that I believe is, we have a proposal to introduce regions for which some of you are, and some of you don't know that, but there are probably so in all parties, and therefore these questions can be asked in the same way that you said. As far as I am aware of in the working joint or committee that did so were representatives of all parties, I don't know if such a proposal was made and I don't know at which stage it was formulated but the fact that there are no 101 votes to change the Constitution there is always the possibility of still talking. Therefore, it is good to talk and to get to the best solutions, and I have said several times that it can be a topic and as far as the technical part is concerned, I have limited myself to the part where the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have, I apologize for the time being over, the place of residence in the Republic of Croatia in a special voting status compared to the citizens who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, and these are elections for the Croatian Parliament. And for these other types of choices here, we have a certain dilemma that perhaps in the conversation we can resolve, and perhaps I can convince you of my views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74303	Davorin's Mlakar, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74304	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, you have already significantly passed the topic that we should discuss today, but as you can see, there is a good parliamentary practice of the chairman who will allow it all. I have to admit, I've never heard of mathematical equality, it's new to me, but I'm glad I learned that, too. Today, however, when you raised the issue of electoral rights, we talk about the constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms in which there is no mathematical equality, there are only guarantees of human rights and freedoms protected by the Croatian Constitution. And that's what we're talking about, now you're asking us to change the Constitution, non-depreciation of criminal acts, and we're going back to our topic, and our topic is the amendments to the law I'd say two months before we hold a new round of elections for the European Parliament. And regardless of what you and your party have said, I cannot speak to you personally, but your party certainly, and most in Parliament have always advocated that the rule is respected that in the year in which the calendar year elections are held, the last 365 days before the elections are held, the electoral rules should not be changed. It was until recently reached standard. You are today calling for a consensus that is supposed to be passed and the final amendments to this law, you will not have a consensus on our side for these solutions because we believe that you could have woken up before, so these changes occur earlier. And just in the end, the DIP has done a great deal of quality work for years, you should then use good practice and their experience and adopt their proposals, not impose solutions on them about covering the area by election committees. And I apologize that I've timed out, won't allow me the shortness to explain everything to you, but what you suggested two months before the election enough reason to disagree with this...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74305	Thank you. We got it. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74306	As far as your position is concerned, I invite you to comply with the representative of the HDZ Club who spoke of this law, that's all I can say. As for mathematical equality, mathematical equality can be read among other things in the report of the Constitutional Court which objected, i.e. warned the Croatian Parliament long ago about inequality in the number of voters in a single constituency. So that's, I've made it very clear what it's about when I think about it, and that's that every voice equally affects the allocation of mandates and that's why there's a whole theory of election systems that's talking about it. As regards timing, therefore, this was initiated by the State Election Commission where Article 3 is located. As far as Article 2 is concerned, he is already in the Law on Elections for the European Parliament as a possibility, and this option is little here, let's say it puts more of a commitment on the trail of a solution that is in the current law, which is supported by all those participating in the electoral process. However, in order not to spread the debate, I, in my opening, final presentation, touched everything the MPs had said. Among other things, most HDZ deputies, I answered all the questions, so if the chairman did not interrupt them when they asked those questions why would he interrupt me when I answer them that we all have the same, here I thank Mr. Klaric for confirming. Therefore, here's what I can say, I think the chairman led the debate very correctly and Mr. Stazic and Mr. Batinić had no reason to complain about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74307	Thank you, Minister. And the last replica of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74308	Well, Mr. Minister, when you touched my replica of the day to Mr. Matusic, you well remember the probably presentation of that law in Malinska when you were working. Right then in my speech, I told you not to do it because it's exactly what's going to happen right now. And when you mentioned that chief who didn't give the budget exactly by that law, you gave them the tools. Because more than the vanity of any mayor, chief, any councilman in that municipal or city council is worth that city or municipality or those citizens of that city or that municipality. What has now been made possible by this law has made it possible to waste time which is invaluable and is worth more than any choice. Because after 6 months, after the Council meetings were established, the crisis was caused by not proposing a budget to the city or the municipality for a year and nothing in that city or municipality could be done in particular in this situation. It's only the beginning because it's another three years' term. As these elections go through, if anything changes, we'll see about that. And how much it costs. And that is why I support all those who spoke in the election year in this way by emergency procedure to change the Election Law is not good because experience tells us so. I know best what the crisis means because in my city you were a nonstop crisis, a repeat election. For four years this city has stagnated, nothing has been done in it. The past law, directly by selecting mayors and mayors, by forming city councils where one or the other could not be destroyed except one or the other, was not possible in this way to cause a crisis. It's only now that this opens the door and as much as it costs itself to re-election and it doesn't matter as much as it costs lost time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74309	Thank you. Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74310	I don't agree on two subjects. First, it's not about the Electoral Law, it's about the Law on Local Self-Government, so the Law on Local Self-Government can be changed all the time, it's not about Election Law. The Law on Local Elections has changed nothing, a proportional system and a direct choice of mayors. So there hasn't been any changes to that part in the last year. As far as the system is concerned, so that or any other chief you mentioned so far could not propose a budget without him staying chief and the council going to the elections. That's what we had. And now he has to risk it too, he decided to tell the citizens, my people with these can't because they're bad, I'm good, and these others could, no, these others could make a decision on temporary funding and thus put pressure on him for the next three months,... to participate in a political debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And who will win the political game and normally or less normally lead the municipality for the next three years will decide the citizens. There's nothing else, so the citizens are the main arbiter in some local self-government they're going to choose to lead. And so in one part, it will encourage them to agree because in many cities and municipalities where we had crisis situations before the elections and didn't change much, yet this system has forced political actors to agree and we have fewer choices than we had before. If that's how it's gonna be all four years of mandate, we'll see and I think this is better than it was. And there's always a question left, so there's always an opportunity where people can't function, let the citizens decide who's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74311	The minister only responded to the replica of counterpart Klaric. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. We move to - - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 620; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. With us is Minister Tihomir Jakovina and Assistant Minister. Prime Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74313	I'd like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests in the first row was to speed up the administrative process of land available to the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of attracting new investors with quality investment projects, which would imply increased economic activity and new employment. The same is therefore the main issue which regulates the deforestation of forests and/or forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia and the forest of the economic area, in such a way as to isolate... the economic area of the Republic of Croatia on the day of entry into force of the Space Plan which is included in the building area. In addition, for the protection of forest and forest land, we point out that the level of protection relative to the legislation so far has been increased in such a way that the spatial plan to expand the construction area to forests and forest land can only be adopted with a explicitly positive opinion of the ministry, which has not been prescribed so far, since the opinion has been optional. Similarly, this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Forests enables the construction of camps and golf courses that are spatially planned, emphasising the spatial plan provided for in the forest and forest land, which enables us to build the necessary facilities for raising the level of tourist offer and for the purpose of attracting new investors. In doing so, it should be noted that the same areas are not included in the construction area and remain in the forest-economic area of the Republic of Croatia through the Institute for the Rights of Construction and the Declaration of Forests of Special Purpose, meaning without changing the right of ownership of a country which is the fundamental resource of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the attention given in the very preparation of this law regarding both camps and golf courses, I point out that this legal act shows in some way an intrinsic rule on how to manage and dispose of significant land areas in the Republic of Croatia, both owned by the DVRH itself and owned by other persons and for the reason that this model clearly points out: manage, not sell. The Institute of Construction's right to not sell the right and not give the right to ownership, while allowing for the purpose needed for tourism at the moment. The attention shown is something very good because it speaks of our concern for the general good, but it cannot be said that raising tourism competitiveness and offers are not necessary through these content. As for the very problems of campsites, for 20 years unfortunately, the problems of the camps have not been regulated and we currently have a list of 30 camps that are within the area of spatial plans designed for this purpose, and they cannot develop and build quality because they are actually on forest land. The third thing that we have regulated and we have proposed this legislative solution is to comply with the Law on Advisory Service, which established the advisory service, including for the promotion and management of forests and forests of private forest owners. The consultative activity in the area of the Ministry of Agriculture has been pooled and more operational efficiency has been gained both the Agricultural Advisory Services and the Forest Advisory Service, which has so far been part of the Croatian Forests, and with an important task and an emphasis on the important role it will play in the use of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. The fourth thing we have proposed for these legislative changes is to enable the use of certain forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, the authorities of the state administration, and to manage some for the purpose of scientific research and scientific and teaching activities and this applies only to legal persons with the status of a public institution whose founder is the Republic of Croatia and their scientific and teaching components. Furthermore, the proposal for this law regulates the issue of the use of compensation and the use of general forest dysfunctions by paying these funds to a special account and, accordingly, by means of sublegal acts, would determine the conditions and means of use of those funds, thus making the spending process and the control of the implementation of those funds even more transparent. These are the strict means of compensation for the general service of the forest. These are strictly dedicated means by which an entire investment range is being managed from any restoration of the forest to demining. So far has been the income of the Croatian forests. We believe that in this way we will do even better and allow more projects to be implemented from these funds. And finally, the final amendment, or you see here in this legislative proposal, all forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, which are designated as a land on which to establish a service for... nada. They are separated from the forest-economic areas of the Republic of Croatia and continue to be available under a special regulation governing the availability of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia. In view of all this and the importance of forests and forest land as a good of interest for the Republic of Croatia, as well as for the acquisition of conditions for new investment investments and the creation of new added values, in order to strengthen the investment spirit and the representation of the Republic of Croatia as a country suitable for new investments, the proposed amendments and additions to the law should be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74314	Thank you, Minister. We have reports of replicas. Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74315	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I have listened carefully to your explanation. It's somewhat different from what the SDP has been representing since 2009 in terms of one other law, the Golf Act, and you say that this law is being passed and therefore means that it's being extended to golf courses or camps. It's a new category within that forest area or land. What did the SDP say then? It is amazing that the strategic interest of Croatia is building golf courses, not workers. Making such laws is the worst form of corruption because it legalizes robbery. Then the next statement. It is now part of the abduction of what remains of Croatia, land as its most valuable resource. Then onward, the law creates new tycoons. The golf law was passed in the Croatian Parliament for one reason only, so that the party in power could repay its donors and protectors. Those are the words of the 2009 SDP. Then at the end of 2013, you and the prime minister say there is no privatisation of the forest, water and agricultural land. Today, you say here that the process of forest availability is being accelerated to encourage investment, economic growth and employment. Your credibility is obviously at a high level, as is this procedure, and you are also in charge of water to send water compensations to people in flooded areas today. Well, that's a shame! All those who have lost their property, who have suffered in these floods a day, you send them a flatwater fee. It's the credibility with which you come to this House. So I ask you which SDP is the real one from 2009 or the one from 2013? In fact, who's to blame? The one from 2009 or today? Because the same subject can be discussed in a different way, obviously only the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74316	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74317	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Very short. I think that, too, in the opening presentation, I have indicated the right to build. We edit the system, we don't alienate the land, we don't separate the land, we don't give land into property unlike the way it was before and what the proposal was and what your law was like.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74318	Next replica of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74319	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, definitely this law should be the way you've introduced it, and start attracting investment, golf courses should be opened, camps should be opened. But when this law is better read, I don't think it's going to happen, and here's why. Today, you already have about 30 requests in the State Property Management Office for the establishment of camps throughout Croatia, so in the coastal part. You also have painful demands to set up a golf course. There are spatial plans that have already been adopted for such projects, however nothing is happening. The law that is now being passed under an emergency procedure will also not change the very investments that are on hold today. It will not change for the reason that in the transitional and final provisions you have put in place all the procedures that have begun, but are completed under the old law after this law has been passed. So in this year, you've put all the investments that are unsuccessfully trying to realize on hold. And that's a bad thing about this law. There's no big difference in forest management and forest land when it comes to expropriation. So you had before the service, now you have the right to build. For investors, there is no special difference. But one fact here is extremely important. It's that this country has become a disgrace to investment. Since so many changes, practically nothing is happening, and this is a concrete example that you're practically proposing some new solutions that are actually half-old solutions, and nothing important is going to happen because you're going to put everything on hold by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74320	Time. Thank you. Here you go, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74321	Respected MPs, no law can be retroactively applied, and neither does this amendment and the addition of the Forest Act, which does not mean that applicants of the old law cannot give up on that requirement and then resubmit on a new request, especially because the spatial-planned documentation of the units of local self-government has been adopted and indicated that these are areas for camps or other facilities. It's one of the modals. And I take advantage of the opportunity and a great apology to all of you that I didn't mention at first, given the opinions and requests made by the board, we accept and agree that this law to make it as good as possible with your help in the debate we go in two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74322	Thank you, Minister. That would be necessary. Next replica Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74323	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Forests and forest land as referred to in Article 52 The Constitution is an area of special interest for the Republic of Croatia has its special protection. This law loses any protection. Therefore, forests and forest land lose any protection with this law and may also mark the sale and privatisation of Croatian forests. This is perfectly clear to you from Article 37(1) where the spatial plan determines the possibility of building any facilities and establishing any purpose in forests and forest land. Afterwards, the State Office for State Property Management shall have the property in accordance with the Law on the availability of state assets. Thus, this law of the forest does not protect what has been established on the one hand by the law so far. On the other hand, in forests and forest land, it provides any purpose to build any object. That's what this law allows. And after that, when such a purpose of the forest is established, this law may sell what was in force by law has been very limited, precisely established protocols and precisely established protocols and precisely established procedures and deadlines and precisely established by the procedure of establishing public interest. This law deletes all of this, allowing for the sale of Croatian forests, i.e. forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia by a very simple procedure. Your answer to Mr. Boric that even what you were saying at the introduction of the express opinion of the Minister of Forestry Affairs does not stand for the reason why spatial plans in the Republic of Croatia are being passed under the Law on Spatial Land. And there are no provisions in this law that speak explicitly of the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74324	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74325	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The spacious plan will define co-operation between the Ministry of Construction and the Ministry of Agriculture. All those forest areas, all those forests that will be protected as forests of economic interest and as an area under the woods. We are talking about the spatial plans of units of local self-government and county that have passed a very wide and very long discussion and the whole procedure in the adoption itself. And in that part, we're allowing for separation, but I'm just going to point out one more time, with a particularly positive opinion from the ministry. ... To comment on this story about the sale of Croatian forests and land is not necessary at all because we have been precisely determined according to both agricultural land and water and towards forests and in no segment does this change of law define it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We give the possibility of building rights, we can also analyze everything that has been given in the previous period and isolated from forest land just for golf. So it was given into possession. You know who signed those solutions. In this way more Croatian land, whether agricultural land is not given on land but only with the right to build which is controlled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74326	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74327	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, no matter what you've just said and we've asked the committees to at least go into another reading of this law and still get the impression that this government has worked very, very hard to help one of the golf special investors. We're interested in who the investors are, which is why no other purpose but golf and camp is listed? I really don't know why we in this Croatian Assembly would ever raise our hands and support a law like this? Mr. Minister, there are 19 locations for golf courses and none of those 90, pardon 90 locations, none of those 90 locations have built a golf course. I wonder why these amendments and the additions to the law are now strictly listed in the golf course? Who's it meant for? Or it will really be your discretionary right to give you a positive opinion on forest land that will where and which will be yours some do not know the debtor or some donor party who will get the right here to build that golf course. That's what I'm curious about right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74328	Thank you. Then my colleague twilight deserved a warning if we're going to work. [[Intruder: Warning.]] Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74329	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will once again mention the basis for any separation are the spatial plans of the units of local self-government. The professional competent authorities, the ministries, the forestry administrations, will give their positive opinion when drawing up these spatial plans or refusing. I mention hundreds and hundreds of hectares that are isolated from forest-economic bases and are given to property without any criteria in this way through the Institute of Construction Rights we determine and regulate the sector, management of forest land.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74330	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74331	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here it is, in your excellent political practice, you've injured Rule 238. You tried to give me a warning I don't know what. I'm asking nicely, since this is all getting into a phonogram, to tell me why I deserve a warning, not colleagues and colleagues from this side who have interfered while I've been asking a legitimate and legal question to the Prime Minister? What's got you so upset all together here? I don't know. And the 217th article. [[Invader Bačić: Article 217]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74332	It didn't upset me personally. I'll give you an interpretation. It turns out I hurt the Rules of Procedure. There were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. If I'd given you a warning then we might have. I was just commenting when you insisted on warning. Namely, I assume that colleagues and colleagues on the left raised their voice when you mentioned in the last sentence as I recall you or some of your sponsors. That sounded a little offensive. And that was the reason, I'm toleranced to hold the session, and that was the reason I warned you. But I didn't give you a warning. I appeal to be correct in the debate. You gave the Minister an answer. Next line, Vladimir Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74333	Thank you very much, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74334	Excuse me, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74335	Yeah, yeah, it's okay. Well, unlike previous replicas, mine does not refer to golf courses but to your opening exposure, but also to this material that we have obtained, among other things, for the purpose of attracting new investors with better quality investment projects, which would imply increased economic activity and new employment. I ask you Ministers, what about existing employment? Company... from Gornja Jelenska, the municipality of Popovac, addressed you in writing, addressed the prime minister in writing, and they were denied raw material, i.e. their annual need for different types of forest aorta is 18 thousand cubic metres. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, they have therefore signed contracts for international contracts since the company exports 32% of its products. And these are final products, so it's not semi-products. What about companies like that? Why do you allow Croatian forests to simply 68 employees to drive practically to the labour market? Because there isn't, based on what will they accomplish what they have agreed? You mean existing business entities that already have employees, you create space for new investors, and what about the existing ones? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74336	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74337	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll run an analysis of the request itself, you didn't just tell me it was the final product that exports and what the level of the finale itself. Right now, as far as the demand is concerned, another... in a sector that is one of the bright or better data-related sectors, the results of my business, I'm talking about almost 300 million surpluses in the entire sector. We're talking about almost a billion dollars in exports we have. Currently, requests for Croatian forests are three times higher than what is then a year that we can cut. If we're only talking about multiple metrics, it cuts millions and 200 cc's, it's currently required for 2 million and 900 cc's. A strict criteria have been established to determine a fixed percentage for each business entity based on its results on the need and degree of the final, the remaining part of the public auctions, all of which can be achieved. There is no longer a privileged position for certain wood growers and for the intervention of the minister or anyone else to receive the quantities or quantities they need. Exactly the orderly system in which it is assigned... and there is always that part that can still be applied or obtained through bidding.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74338	Thank you, Minister. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? My colleague Franjo Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74339	Agriculture. [[Indica Batinić: A colleague Lucić, parent, you are, which is the parent committee?]] Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, the report on the proposal itself would say that the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the session, 30 of its session held on 27 February 2014. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests with the final proposal for a law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 13 February 2014. That proposal for a law has been examined by the Committee in accordance with the provisions of Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The debate was attended by representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Forest Engineers and Wood Technology from the Green Action, who sent written views to the Committee on Agriculture, positions on the text of the bill. The opening argument was also presented by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, the proposal's representative, and stressed that this law would speed up the process of making available to forests owned by the Republic of Croatia, which would necessarily mean increased economic activity. In addition, the law is in line with the Law on the Advisory Service and a basis is created for the use of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. The debate highlights the importance of enabling detached forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia from the forest economic area so that units of local self-government, in accordance with spatial plans, could include it in the construction area to facilitate investment in new projects and economic activity. Furthermore, the establishment of a right of construction without change of ownership would allow for the construction of golf courses, camps, as well as the position of already built camps. The Green Action representative warned that the applicant did not comply with the procedure laid down in the Environmental Protection Act at NN 80/2013. a year which, in the process of drafting the Law and implementing regulations which could have a significant impact on the environment, is set a minimum period of 30 days for vowing to the interested public. She stressed the need for a period of public debate and considered it unacceptable to refer the draft laws to amendments and the addition of the Law on Forests to an emergency parliamentary procedure, which I will also say the same thing in the end. She warned that the provisions of the law proposal in the part relating to the construction of golf courses put one group of investors in a more favourable position than others. The debate highlights the problems arising from the transfer of rights and obligations from society to state property and still unresolved cases of registration of companies. Croatian forests as a shareholder society, as a legal successor to parks, squares, cemeteries and other surfaces, were reminded of the adoption of a credible interpretation of Article 44. The Act amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, which is NN 18/2013. and the necessity of its application in practice in order for units of local and regional self-government to consume rights over areas and facilities which are in practice managed. Explanations related to unprocessed forest land and land have also been requested, which has grown to the initial or degradation stages of forest ingredients, which are part of the forest economic area of the Republic of Croatia. These lands are suitable for agricultural production, which is particularly interesting for family farms. The applicant's representative pointed out that the availability of this land was regulated by the Agricultural Land Act. The various opinions have also been expressed in view of the current and future transparency of the collection and use of compensation funds for the use of the general user of forest functions as well as the supervision of implementation. The applicant's representative pointed out that the current way of collecting and disbursing the KEFŠ funds is not being used in forests, forest owners and that it will be possible to provide transparency in the allocation of funds by just passing out these funds into a special account. The representative of the Croatian Chamber of Forestry and Wood Technology Engineers stressed that, taking into account the scope of the amendments and the addition of this bill, it would be more effective to adopt a new Law on Forests. It also stressed the need to define deadlines in the development of strategic documents related to forestry, wood technology and wood industry. It warned of the need to develop implementing acts, channel KEFŠ's funds to forest owners' forests so that these forests could be effectively managed. This refers in particular to forests in the coastal area, and it is a direct link in the possibility of applying and using EU funds. In view of the scope of the proposed amendments, the fullness of the law and the different opinions, the debate on this bill was rejected in two readings, but the proposal was mostly rejected. And after the debate was held, the committee decided by majority vote, 6 votes for and 4 votes against, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74340	Thank you, too. Comrade Zdravko Ronko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74341	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be brief. At the 29th session held on 26 February this year, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, of course with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading as an interested working body. The introduction pointed out that this proposal regulates the deforestation of forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia from the forest economic area in such a way that forests and forest areas declared by a spatial plan are separated from the forest economic area of the Republic of Croatia when that spatial plan involving forests and forest land is included in the building area, so when that spatial plan comes into force. The Green Action representative, who followed the debate, pointed out the ambiguities and concerns about the one part of the protection of forests and forest land, and, on the other hand, the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia on the so-called investment and construction of buildings. It was also assessed that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Forests are improving the text of the law, but that the provisions of the Nature Protection Act should also be taken into account, but also the provisions of the Regulation on the ecological network when it comes to the protection of the forest eco-system and how it is arranged for protected parts of nature in the Nature Protection Act, and in accordance with EU directives on the protection and conservation of the Natura 2000 ecological network. It is also suggested that the procedure for the adoption of a solution on the approval of a forest economic plan for a particular forest, protection forest or forest with a special purpose should also be governed by the competent authority of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. And here, it is in the shortest lines, and after the debate was held, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly decided by majority of votes, 7 for and 1 against, propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74342	Thank you, too. And colleague Branko Bacic, environmental protection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74343	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 40th session held on 26 February of this year, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests with the final proposal of the law to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 13 February 2014. With a proposal to comply with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by emergency procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature pursuant to Article 179. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as an interested working body. In the opening statement, the proposing representative briefly presented the proposed law stressing the issue of deforestation or forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia from the forest economic area and the conditions for the construction of golf courses and camps. The Committee received written comments, proposals and opinions on the text of the proposed law from the Green Action and the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Forestry and Wood Industry. The sitting was attended by a representative of the Green Action and pointed out that the proposed law did not implement the consultation procedure with the interested public, which is contrary to the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act, which provides for a minimum period of 30 days for public participation in the process of drafting laws and implementing rules which could have a significant impact on the environment. It is unacceptable to assess and refer this law to an emergency procedure which further reduces the opportunity for public participation. The view is that, in the absence of a public hearing, the competent ministry has violated the code of consultation with the interested public in the procedures for the adoption of laws of other regulations and acts. It has been warned that the application of the proposed law and the Strategic Investment Projects Act, all in order to strengthen the investment spirit, will call into question the preservation of... forest and forest land. The Green Action, among other objections, proposes to delete fully Article 51a, Article 51a, Article 55a, paragraph 57a from the text of the proposed law. In a discussion followed by a member of the board of public scientific and professional staff, which was also a member of the Croatian Chamber of Forestry and Wood Technology Engineers, he briefly presented the opinion and chambers delivered to the Committee. The view is that, in order to systematically regulate the problem of forest and forest land, it was more acceptable to propose a new forest law instead of the proposed changes and additions. In connection with the development of key strategic documents of the National Strategy for Forestry and Wood Technology, the National Programme for Forestry and the National Wood Industry Programme, it is inadmissible that the proposed law does not define the deadlines for their adoption. It is pointed out that the provision of Article 12 proposed to delete paragraph 2 of Article 29 of the applicable law. it is stressed that such a provision removes the obligation of a legal person using forest and forest land or manages forest and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, for example, by a public institution of national parks to ensure the means of carrying out activities under the management or use of trusted forests programme. The Commission considers that it is in breach of the provisions of the Nature Protection Act, which is laid down in Article 140 of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of forests containing the measures to protect them. The open question also leaves the treatment of the area after its demarcation from the forest economic area unless investments are realised within a period of several years after it is singled out. In the follow-up to the debate, it has been assessed in particular that it is possible to circumvent the current procedure for determining the interest of the Republic of Croatia by a decision of the Minister. The view is expressed that this legislative proposal should, for all of the above reasons, be withdrawn from the adoption procedure. On the other hand, however, it noted the proposal to hold a discussion on the proposed law in two readings. During the debate, the proposed amendments and additions that regulate the possibility of building golf courses and campsites that are envisaged in the forest and forest land by a spatial plan, with the aim of establishing the right of construction, are not included in the construction area and remains in the forest economic area of the Republic of Croatia. It is pointed to the question of such a definition of space, since the camp space is necessarily equipped with infrastructure and therefore represents essentially building land. Furthermore, from the point of view of the declared objectives of forest and forest land protection, even more questionable provisions of this law, such as the provision of Article 25, which provides that construction areas for any purpose can be established in forests and on forest land. It has been noted that Article 15 of the proposed law introduces an institute of explicit positive opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture as a condition for the adoption of a spatial plan that plans to extend the construction area to forests and forest land. It has been warned that the applicable Law on Spatial Planning which defines the process of drawing up and adopting spatial plans does not know that term. On the basis of the debate conducted, which warned of the uncertainty and doubtfulness of a series of provisions, as well as the need for nomotechnical and substantive amendments to the proposed law, it was proposed that the Committee draw a conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would propose to withdraw the draft law amending and supplementing the Forest Act from the procedure. That proposal is not supported because 5 members voted in favour and 6 members against. After that, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the next conclusion, on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests with the Final Proposal for the Law, a debate will be held in the first reading. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate on the draft law at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies will be addressed to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74344	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Zoran Vasic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74345	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, dear assistant, colleagues and colleagues. For the introduction, I would like to point out that the importance of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests and Discussions lies in the fact that the total area of forest and forest land in the Republic of Croatia is about 2 million thousand hectares, which is about 47% of the land area of the country. Of which, about 2 million and 100 thousand hectares or 78% are owned by the Republic of Croatia, while about 580 thousand hectares are owned by private forest owners and 20 to 23%, respectively. It should also be proud to note that the Republic of Croatia is one of the few European countries whose forests have a mostly natural structure on which over 150 years of tradition of forestry and science had a significant impact. Looking at the structure of the growing areas in the area of the Republic of Croatia, 54% are seeds, so they are composed of high breeding shape and high quality, 22% are panaches, 21% degraded ingredients consisting of chicars, loins, scissors and garrisons, and 3% of culture. If we talk about the total wood supply, it's about 400 million cc's. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, which is before us, regulates among other issues governing the demarcation of forests or forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia from the forest-economic area. Namely, forests and forest land declared by a spatial plan are separated from the forest-economic area of the Republic of Croatia on the day of entry into force of the spatial plan which is included in the building area. The novelty of the previous law is the fact that a spatial plan that plans to expand the area of construction to forests and forest land can only be adopted as we have heard, with an explicitly positive opinion from the ministry. According to the promoters, it is a guarantee that some unreasonable requirements regarding the expansion of construction areas to forests and forest land will not be possible to implement local spatial plans. The possibility of building golf courses and campsites intended for forests and forest land is also arranged, with the same area not being included in the construction area and staying in the forest-economic area of the Republic of Croatia and the purpose being achieved by establishing the right of construction. This way of legalizing the construction of golf courses or campsites in the forest and forest land is currently the best model because it provides protection of forests and forest land with the possibility of achieving the purpose envisaged by the spatial plan and the realization of investment projects. Such forest and forest land the ministry declares the forest with special purpose for the construction of golf courses and campsites and on the basis of an approved forest management programme with special purpose. Boric mentioned that there was already a law concerning golf, specifically the Law on Golf Courses adopted in 2008 which was short until 2011 when it ceased to apply, so it is a short law of 16 articles. In the first article, the construction of golf courses is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, including the extraction of forests and forest land from the forest economic base for the construction of a quality Mediterranean and European golf destination. I note that this is a big difference compared to the proposed changes where this area would therefore remain in the forest economic area of the Republic of Croatia for the golf course. However, it should be said when we talk about golf, about the possibility of building a golf course in the Republic of Croatia that since 1995 and 1999 the government has adopted two documents, specifically since '95. In the year, the Ministry of Tourism developed a "Golf as an element of the development strategy of Croatian tourism". That's '99. The government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a programme of golf development as an element of the development strategy of Croatian tourism. So already, we have in some ways been committed to the development of golf tourism. However, let me present a few data from the development strategy of Croatia's tourism until 2020, which was adopted at the level of last year and concerns golf courses. In fact, golf is now globally popular with estimated 60 million players and 32 thousand playgrounds in the world and Croatia currently has only 4 golf courses with 18 holes and two 9 holes. Slovenia has 14 golf courses. This is why Croatia currently does not exist on the map of the tourist golf offer despite what it is today and will be one of the most important market segments of Mediterranean tourism demand mainly in periods beyond the main tourist season. Golf courses can significantly contribute to the development of a tourist offer because by building the first golf courses Croatia will get a new tourist product that will further strengthen the competitiveness of its tourism. By offering golf courses we will be able to attract for the first time those tourists who visit only golf destinations and as well as those above average purchasing power and travel throughout the year. Golf can be played all year on the coast of the Mediterranean as well as in all Croatian coastal destinations. Statistics say that in the last 20 years the number of golf courses in Europe has doubled and the number of players has tripled. Croatia currently has 0.32 golf courses per million arrivals of tourists and in European Union countries the average is 6 golf courses on... The arrival of tourists. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the 2012 European Golf Association, the neighbouring countries and competitors in terms of tourism have the following number of golf courses: Italy 278, Spain 352, Turkey with 20, Cyprus with 10, Austria with 151 playgrounds. So, in this regard, Croatia has a lot of helmets for other Mediterranean countries, so if we want to be competitive and we need to work on these solutions as soon as possible. The next item to be defined by these amendments and additions to the law is the role of the forest advisory service as we have heard. About 23% of private forests in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the law would have the forest sector as part of the advisory service to carry out advisory activities in forests and forests, or private forest owners. This is extremely important because private forests are dominated by nearly 600 thousand owners on about a million-and-a-half plots. This fragmented forest property is an average size of only 0.76 hectares, and in private forests an estimated wood mass is only about 80 metres cubic per hectare, unfortunately with a drop in stock. It should be recalled that the 2010 Law amending the Law on Forests has abolished the forest advisory service and its employees have taken over the company of the Croatian Forests within the framework of the economic recovery measures of the Government. According to this proposal, the law that is now before us rounding all advisory activities in the area of responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture would achieve synergies in work and greater operational efficiency needed for the upcoming tasks with an emphasis on the important role of using the rural development programme for 2014-2020 where our private forest owners could withdraw funds through a series of measures. The amendments to the laws will also allow individual forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia to be used by the authorities of the state administration while individual bodies can be managed for the purpose of research and scientific and educational activities. This law, amendments and additions to the Law on Forests of Refunds and the use of common useful functions of the forest would pay to a special account and, accordingly, the Minister would establish the terms and conditions of use of those funds by means of a sublaw. By law so far, these funds have been paid at the expense of the trading company of the Croatian Forests. It should be said that on several occasions this percentage of detachment is currently 0.0265%, therefore for the general useful functions of the forest. And when we talk about the total amount of funds collected on behalf of that, it was around 419 million kuna in 2007. 436 to sleep in 2011 at 385 and 2012 respectively. 276 million kuna. Because of the private forests, again I speak there is about 23%, if we know that it would be proportionate or justly shared, if we subtract 5% of the proceeds that go to the fire community, it turns out that at this point in time private forests or forest owners should be looking at 2012 to get about 50 million kuna. The current situation is such that only about 33 million kunas are allocated annually for forests and forest owners. In many European countries, too, there is a large share of private forests in the total area under the forests, while these forest owners generate revenue and many of them live on their private forests. The funds from the OkFŠ Fund are also intended to regulate the situation in private forests. This situation should certainly be changed and I welcome this ministry initiative to give greater importance to forest owners and through the new work of the Forest Advisory Service, but also through the use of funds from the OkFŠ. I note this because the current situation in private forests is mostly such that it is cut without order, mostly the more valuable types of trees, primarily fruitcakes, are used only by the most valuable wood varieties, and the rest of the wood mass is not used and often falls into the forest. The proposal for this law also sets out all forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, which are designated as land on which a service can be established to raise several years of plantation, is set out in the forest-economic area of the Republic of Croatia and are within the jurisdiction of the agricultural land agency. It is a total of 10 decisions made by the Governments of the Republic of Croatia in the period 2004-2013 and only in 2013 that the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to establish a service on a total surface of almost 985 hectares, mostly in the area of the Management of the Forests of Split 736 hectares, Koprivnica 124, Buzet 87 hectares and others, namely the raising of new vineyards, orchards and olive groves. In order to be accurate and credible until the end and not to get the impression that the areas under the forests are shrinking each year or that they could be reduced, and even by applying this law, it should be said that only the Croatian forest company has a yearly forest area that has not grown to forest vegetation, and that is to say, in 2011 488 hectares, 2012. 774 hectares and last 2013 1147 hectares, i.e. to buy private forests for the purpose of rounding their own land in 2011 16 hectares in 2012, 76 hectares and here in 2013, i.e. the signing of a contract for 330 hectares is expected. This is an indication that the forest profession in the Republic of Croatia is responsible for the natural resources and wealth that they are given to manage. And colleagues and colleagues, I believe that forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia should be protected and preserved by the nature and mix of our ingredients by which we are, as I said before, at the top of European countries. However, I believe that co-existence and compromise between protection and development, between environmental protection and economic development, and no segment should prevail there. That it is possible to do this was proven 10 years ago when building the Zagreb-Split highway. In order to connect Croatia's north and south with a quality roadway, one of the most beautiful in Europe had to land and land about 1600 hectares of forest, i.e. to turn so many acres of forest and forest land into building land. Nevertheless, the area under the forests in the Republic of Croatia has not decreased, although it has increased by several percentages, and I will remind you once again that Croatia's forests in 2013 have forested and rounded up about 1500 hectares of new forests and forest land. I believe that all these guarantees are that the forest and forest land will be treated responsibly and protected in the future, but will also develop this natural wealth. And in the follow-up of all that has been said, the SDP Representatives Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74346	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74347	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Vasic, you were talking about golf, but I'll talk about it a little bit more in my individual discussion. I'm just gonna remind you, and that's why I'm opening up and I'm asking the minister why the SDP thinks one thing today, and the other one thinks 2009. The statement by the Vice-President of Mr. Stazic in 2009, is now on the part of the kidnappers of what remains of Croatia, the land as its most valuable resource. That's when the law was passed. I don't see much difference today, no matter what you're talking about ownership, service, etc., but I'll talk about it individually more. I'm worried about something else, I'm worried about, and I'm afraid of this minister's authority that he's setting up 90 possible golf course locations with his decision whether to separate himself from the forest economic base or not. Why, because experience tells us something else. Here are these days a case with three Croatian sugars, where the minister also had the authority to redistribute the quotas with his decision and what everyone is talking about happened, possible damage to this country, which is measured in hundreds of millions of kunas. If I were a minister, I'd never take that kind of authority. So give it to some people, some commissions, commissions. Do not allow a minister who has shown that at a small number of three sugars can cause such damage, possible damage. And imagine at 90 locations and thousands of acres of forest land, that the minister himself decides who he will allow to build a golf course or not. Well, then that's going to be billions of dollars worth of damage. If I were a minister, I wouldn't do it, and you in the SDP think about it, don't let him do it. Share it on some committee or something because there will be possible abuse, possibly. Well, the minister can't be a god on forest land, he can't, and neither can the farm, and these things should be kept safe. I just wanted to be constructive.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74348	Thank you. Answer, colleague Vasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74349	I thank my colleague, Boric. So I mentioned the 2008 Law on Golf Courses. There is, again, the first article said that this law is being passed, or proposed to build a golf course, that it is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. And then it was right in the reasoning and it seemed that it was brought about, it is put to that level for the reason that on a potential area where a particular golf course would be built, if there were more owners, if they would not want to sell their land or if they were looking for unacceptablely high prices, in such cases the real estate would be taken out and it is therefore necessary to establish that the construction of golf courses is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. So it was in that law. I repeat...... Yes, yes, for some reason you brought it and abolished it in 2011, i.e. I will stress again that by proposing this law, the land on which the golf course would be built would remain in the forest economic area of the Republic of Croatia. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74350	Tomislav Klaric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74351	Comrade Vasic, you said you and the minister, and in the light of the law that enlargement only with the express permission of the ministry. If something in the Republic of Croatia has advanced all these years it is spatial planning. All units of local self-government each in their area had to, had time to bring in spatial plans, define the purpose of that space what they wanted and what they needed to do in that space and we all did it and it cost everything. And if there's anything more transparent than that, I don't think there is in this country. Because the agreement for any spatial plan is going to be a previous debate, a public debate, must be given to the county, the ministry. We recently passed a new Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. And why here to write even golf courses or camps about some forest land if it's not defined by a spatial plan. The spatial plan of units of local self-government, states must define these areas. As for other things, all units of local self-government and I have these huge negative experiences in that section of the forest land where we've lost months and days to get out of the forest economic base. Some space within the scope of business zones that were intended for investors and then had to pay for the removal of the forest-economic base with huge amounts. Because on a forest-economic basis, the credits have been accounted for over a period of years so that we paid tens of millions of kuna for scissors to get that land and put it into some kind of economic function. The whole state is spatially planned. I'm afraid it's not exactly what I was told when I discussed the Strategic Investment Act. Not the investor where we go, but whatever he wants. Well, here we are, Parliament, here's the law to keep them from coming here to manipulate us, so they'll work somewhere they remember. We have spatial plans, we stick to them. And then we don't need laws like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74352	Thank you. Answer, colleague Vasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74353	Thank you, colleague Klaric. So, to me, forestry is a profession, and if anyone wants to defend forests and professions, it's probably me. So, this provision in the bill that, with the express positive opinion of the ministry, the forest or forest land will be able to be isolated, I consider as just one additional fuse, and I hope there will be no abuse. If there's any abuse, then it's, let me, then it's the subject of another law. However, I'll just tell you one more thing. So, in preparation for this debate, I also looked at the Law on Spatial Planning, which is in force and in article 44, says: "Out of the construction area, construction can be planned, so the lists in point 8. stand camps, golf courses and other sports-recreation playgrounds in the open with accompanying buildings." And Article 94 defines how public debate is conducted, that is, how all those who are afraid, so... Here I am again saying, if there is any abuse, we fight together against her. [[You can't hear it.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74354	Thank you. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74355	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your presentation on behalf of the club, you dedicated a lot of time to golf, i.e. golf course. It would be the impression that this law regulates golf courses in the Republic of Croatia, that this is the Law on Golf Courses. Golf course and golf is an important issue in this law, but it's not crucial, it's not first-rate. The first-class issue of this law which we at the club disagree with is the fact that Article 25 of this law allows any purpose of any facility to be planned in the area of forest and forest land in the Republic of Croatia. It can be both thermal power plants and bricks and cementers, limestones, etc. So, any object for which there is an interest of a particular investor in the Republic of Croatia can be planned on forests and forest land, which, according to the Constitution and the law, lex specialis of the Law on Forests so far has been impossible, impossible. There were important reservations, restrictions and provisions that limited it. In this way, when, with a spatial plan, with the agreement of the Minister, which does not oblige the Secretary-General in this case, Mrs Taritash to adopt a spatial plan, any purpose can be planned in the woods. And then what happens after that? The State Office for the Management of State Property of Forests and Forest Land can sell. We by this law and that is the fundamental message of this law. Golf is important, but I'm saying this is a second-rate question. The primary question in the law is that this law allows us to easily sell forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia, which was now importantly determined by the Law on Execution where the Ministry of Justice would be involved, the Croatian Parliament through two of its parent committees. It's gone. And to this, this is the message of this law we sell forests and forest land. And now that you're talking about golf, you're putting golf in the first level of the issue of this law, which is important, but it's not crucial because the area is scheduled for golf. I'll finish this, Mr. Vice President. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] The golf and camping space of this law remains owned by the Republic of Croatia and remains on a forest-economic basis. And he's making less damage than I've told you, and that's selling the forest and forest land that's prescribed by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74356	Thank you. We figured out a colleague named Bacic. Finish it. Comrade Vasic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74357	Thank you. I think all the provisions of this law matter. I'll start with the last one. So the detachment of forests and forest land for the rise of new multi-annual pestilences is certainly important. Therefore, since 2004, governments have made decisions on the basis of the regulation to isolate the land. For what? To help our farmers raise surfaces on these lands. So now this bill gives them the opportunity to use everything farmers can use, so from the withdrawal of funds, incentives and other things, and on forest land that will no longer be. Now, I agree with you and I stress again, so this is my profession and I love and I defend and I will defend. I don't believe and read from this bill anything that would be controversial. I repeat, if anything controversial would be the first to rise to all fours and you would be against it. But I think we're forgetting the fact that we're making a spatial plan. Therefore, to build something, a spatial plan must pass, i.e. it must be included in a spatial plan that must be voted upon. So, you may know better than I do the procedure for making spatial plans. If there is someone, a group of people who consider and dispute something in the process of public debate and the adoption of a spatial plan will say theirs and then eventually the minister who we now have a proposal and another committee may expand that jurisdiction until the second reading to the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Here, if that's a good suggestion, let it pass. But let's not and Priors say it's going to be something negative. Everything moves with a positive intention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74358	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74359	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Klaric made it very clear what I noticed and wanted to point out so I wouldn't, but there's a lot to say so that I might think in another direction. Namely, it was nice to listen to you when you spoke in that opening part of what our surfaces are, how much our national treasure is. It was also nice to listen when you were talking about a forest profession that has such a rich tradition and you're a member and I understand your position as a member of that profession is difficult for you to defend indefensible, and you know why? Because the forest waist was not respected, because the forest waist said a new law should be made, etc. And what's the rush? There is no respect for green environmental action, which speaks about the environment and we have a relatively well-preserved environment in European frameworks that we need to take much further care of. And another thing I want to warn you, so there are international obligations of the Republic of Croatia under the Kyoto Agreement, according to NATURA 2000, and disrespect for itself has certain consequences. Is that something special to emphasize? It's very important in these circumstances when we don't have and we see each day leaks elsewhere. And the third thing, then you say if you see the fine possibility of withdrawing funds from European rural development. So we see how it goes with this rural development, where we are and how it goes, it almost doesn't work. And should it be said that there is no National Forest Programme for the construction of these measures. That's what I know. You may know more, but I'm afraid you're in a difficult position because you can't defend indefensible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74360	Thank you. Answer, colleague Vasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74361	Thank you. My colleague Milinkovic, so if I thought I was defending indefensible, then I wouldn't be defending it because it's hard for me to do it myself. So I'll actually look back on what you said about withdrawing funds from the rural development program. I am therefore not here to be a lawyer or minister, but since I am the head of the Management Department for Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy in Sisak-Moslavina County, I am participating in discussions and education on this, then I will only say that, on the other hand, as a forest expert, that I am extremely pleased that forest owners in the Republic of Croatia will first be able to withdraw significant funds for their work, to improve their work, to improve the situation in their forests right from that programme. And I said I don't want to be a lawyer, but unfortunately, in this case, as a country, farmers, and even the forest owners, they might have nicked that thing that the regulation in the European Commission was passed only at the end of the 12th month, so the program itself couldn't have been passed. They're currently under way as far as I know informal consultations, but what matters and what's the subject of the law behind this is that the ministry has a solution for that, too. Therefore, there are amendments to the Agricultural and Rural Development Support Act where measures are being taken from rural development by the end of this year, i.e. our farmers will be able to run for those measures which are not yet, or unlike what is not agreed, and for measures that are possible under existing laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74362	Thank you. We have time for another replica, Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74363	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I'm sorry they just let you defend this law because it's your profession, so I know how difficult your situation is, I can only imagine how hard it is for you to defend. Saying that this law will protect forests and forest land is just like saying it's Sunday. He will only protect those who want to invest in the most attractive forest sites. So they're not gonna protect the woods, they're gonna want to build something at the most attractive locations. And the fact is that this is an introduction to privatization of the forest in a very unusual way. The fact is that it will remain outside, in particular Article 51, where forests and forest land are proposed that the spatial plan for the construction of golf courses or camps will not be included in the construction area and remain in the forest-economic area is actually paradoxical. Why? Because by not including in the construction area you will therefore enable construction, you will enable construction anyway on the golf course. Golf course includes construction not only of golf infrastructure but also of other infrastructure – hotels, villas. Here I'll give you just one example from Dubrovnik. There's a 250 villa plan on that golf course, so I'm not talking about areas that are concerned. You know how long it is now, now the new law provides for 4%, etc. So it is that there will be no protection of the forest, there can be no protection of the forest. It's probably in the future if this comes about ruining locations. Why are the spatial plans that are in place, why are we not talking about the realisation of existing spatial plans that predict the construction of the golf course if you care today? A few years ago, you didn't care about building a golf course. We see today that you care very much. But why aren't existing spatial plans being realized where golf courses are scheduled? Let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74364	Thank you. Answer, colleague Vasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74365	I thank my colleague Matusic. So look at the answer to this last question of yours why you don't realize existing spatial plans, these are some kind of spatial plans obviously from your time then. So obviously, while you were, or your option, led this country, passed such laws that cost the investment. So, what's the second answer to that question. Furthermore, I want to tell you, look, I don't have any problem talking about this law or any other law. So, everything I've been saying, I stand behind it and I think that Croatia as a tourist country is certainly missing a larger number of golf courses. Because if one Austria has a 151 golf course, we're saying it's harmful for the woods, we're saying it's harmful for the environment. So look, the Republic of Austria is the country with the largest share of organic agriculture in terms of the total area, 20% of the total agricultural areas are under organic production in Austria. So how can it go together? Apparently they found a way to do it together but we don't know. And we also heard from the minister that one of the reasons why we go to these changes and supplement the law is to attract certain investments. So do we need better information or an argument that for one job or for 250 total jobs that a retail chain has opened a tender for those jobs close to Zagreb, which is now being built, 18 thousand candidates or applications have appeared. How else can we help people to work and create new jobs? And all of this I'll remind you once again, if it stands out of the forest-economic area, if it becomes a building area or land, the spatial plan is a guarantee, the second guarantee is a minister or ministry. And if we're talking about golf courses, it's not out of the forest-economic area, it's staying.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74366	Thank you. We'll stop working now. We'll continue with the replicas at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74367	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. Replica has a colleague named Djurdzica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74368	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Vasic, I am sure that you, as a forester around the profession, will indeed advocate the existence of our forests in Croatia. But this bill, as the minister said, and he respected finally going in two readings, that's fine, but he's so much, I'd say compromising. You said, if it comes to abuse happening, and it's obvious that they can work in this law, that you will fight with us against it. In our people, colleague Vasic has one saying, and says "Last Grandma with cookies". You know very well when something is destroyed, especially when the forest is destroyed one, that very many years must pass to restore it. In addition, I expected that since you are the forest professions in some way warning the ministries, but also the government that the day has finally come to get the new forest law because this is already the 8th amendment of this Foresting Act since 2005, and it was promised before you came to power, not you personally, that we would get a new law and we should go to a new law and here in 2013, it was supposed to be, but here in 2014, there is no new law. Well, I think that some things of the new Law on Forestry could be much better solved, of course, if the law also goes into two readings, not by an emergency procedure, and the time has come for us to really start dealing with the right things, and not, among the people in Croatia, it's the impression that it's convenient for someone here, that it really suits someone who wants their paws...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74369	Thank you very much. Replication response, Zoran Vasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74370	Dear colleagues of the twilight, I really don't know who that suits. If you know who you're... There's an impression. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I mean if that's the impression you have, then say so... So, say so we can hear either the rest of us or the ones who need to know. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Storage Zgrebec: Turn on the microphone.]] If we are talking about deforestation and forest land or forest economic area, then I will stress it in the law, but I see that it is being perverted, if it is to be declared a building area, they are being separated from the forest economic area of the Republic of Croatia on the day of entry into force of a spatial plan that is included in the construction area. That's exactly what the law says. So the spatial plan is that it does not bring the Ministry of Agriculture, it is the spatial plan that is brought at the local regional level, so everyone can be involved in the debate and in the finalisation of the spatial plan. After that, if entered in the spatial plan, if it is plotted that a particular area goes for construction, then it is then further guaranteeed by the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74371	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74372	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am pleased to hear that someone is proud to talk about their profession and as such I know you and appreciate your expertise and engagement in this matter, but in your debate you mentioned that it is mostly the greatest demand for the highest quality varieties. Now that you were present, at least it seems to me that when I had a replica of the minister, we are talking about the company Koscal which is from Gornja Jelenska from Popovaca, which is our county is that we're both from Sisak-Moslavina County and you're just the head there, which you just said. This company uses a lower-quality sortiment, and here, a memo they sent between the other and the county, I believe that you as the headmaster just got that memo, that this company was a forest cleaner, she was buying a sort of sort of sort of thing that nobody wanted to buy. Now I'm asking the question, why is it practically destroying this company? You know, I'm not gonna be mean to say that this might be a way to ask them for something that isn't foreseen by any legal act, by some rule, but be suspicious of it. On the other hand, since you are a man of the profession, let me warn you of the prices of the main forest products of Croatian forests d.o.o., i.e. on this supplement, the price list includes the producers of pallets and briquettes, while others such as pellets or wooden coal are included. Don't you think as a man of the profession that this points to some illogicalness, an irregularity toward them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74373	Replication response, Zoran Vasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74374	Dear fellow Novak, first of all, you misunderstood my phrase about the most qualitative varieties, so it was about cutting into private forests, unfortunately, that's the case that people of private forests or techniques and trees from private woods sell in such a way that they want to get money as soon as possible, the privateer who buys only takes the highest quality, or the first log, and leaves this in the woods. In that context, I was talking about the highest quality varieties. When you talk about Kosćal, I know what he's dealing with, I know the company, I've visited several times, I know Mr. Kosćal, the owner, and I know what problems he faces, but also how well he works. As far as the county's jurisdiction is concerned, the county has no competence for the forest or for solving these problems, but here I hope that this very exposure to you today, I see that you and the Minister of Additional Documentation have brought in additional ways for the further wood mass that it needs to expand its production is indeed a model producer who employs a large number of workers in the city of Popovace.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74375	Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74376	Here is the HDZ all the time attacking the Minister of Agriculture, and the Minister of Agriculture, when it comes to this law, is neither guilty nor obliged. Why this law? The survey has 22 locations intended for golf. The proposer of this law is formally the Minister of Agriculture but actually the Ministry of Tourism is behind it. Of these 22 locations, 3 locations are located in the Mirna River valley. And now we in Istria know how to be extremely innovative when it comes to the management of forests, with such administrative I would say the forms that prevent us in our minds. How do we know to be innovative? It's very simple, we light the woods, we set a fire and we urbanize everything we need. And now where's the problem with how I read this law, the Motovun Forest, where you can light up in Istria without a problem but you can't fire in Motovun Forest. That's where the truffle sites are and stuff like that. So in that Motovun forest, three golf sites are scheduled. One is Motovun, one is Wizinada and another is below the end. And now what's always fascinating to me, just like Istrian, is when they set individuals on fire or when that fire happens. That fire always burns right across the pitches so the other one doesn't benefit from what you're actually doing. And not once did it happen that firemen, as we expect them to, went out on the ground, put out that fire, prevented it from going any further up, or that it was just doing damage, and then they were simply called why such zeal?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74377	And now fellow Caine is now on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74378	Dear Vice President. That even that fire always burns on the edges of the parcel, man can't believe it. Three meters even let go, so that other guy wouldn't have gotten any use for what he did. But let's take it in a row now. This is definitely the golf law for me, this is a de facto copy of that legendary golf law that was so fiercely attacked on the other side then, as this law attacks on this right. But before that, just one sentence, which is happening in the tourist community, why is the head of the tourist community being replaced, and I will no longer mix it with this forest law. Now that we're talking about this law, I should remember what I was saying at the Golf Law, and you know I was against it. Can I speak differently now? I can, but I won't. Croatia certainly needs investment, Croatia needs all types of investment, Croatia is crying out for these investments, and here I have just taken some information which among other things speaks when we talk about these investments that have been on the lowest since 1999. But I'm not going to talk about that data right now. But that's where it's supposed to come from. And every investment is welcome so welcome to golf, but gentlemen honestly. I said that just before I said that we in Istria are otherwise specialists in these formalities especially for declaring the forest a construction area, when it does not go differently, when the legislator is holding you back, then it is usually there that you previously mentioned pyromaniacs. It's all on fire, then it's all re-purposed. And let's say they confirm cases of a series of olive groves in Istria. Okay, someone's gonna say we're better off having olive groves than having woods, but in the same way, it's been nice to the former chief of HGK in Medulin or Pula anyway. And what's the problem? So burn and then urbanize, resell, then you can build. And you don't need to be very inventive. I'm the only one who would say to look at those best examples and then, let's just say, approach when it comes to, normally, I'm kidding about the woods. The difference between this law and that golf law is this, this is about the right to build. That right could be 30, 40, 99 years old. There was an expropriation, normally only private land can be exploded. You can't expropriate state land. In the case of expropriation, whatever "just compensation" you have to pay that fee to the owner of the plot or the property in question, the forest or agricultural land anyway, while there are other principles in building rights. But here we see that de facto from the forest economic base will separate the forests owned by the state and the emphasis is put on it but in the same way, it can clearly be done by private people. Why would private people be in a worse position than the state? It's my impression, but that's why I don't blame the Ministry of Agriculture for writing this law for certain persons. What person? Who of the golfers has their eyes on the woods? Whoever represents them in Croatia, you can conclude for yourself. So, I said a little while ago. In Istria, we have about 20 seats under the quotes of golf stamps. How many have been built in the last two years? All of them. It's no problem. I'm gonna say golf one more time. The problem is the mechanics. The problem is that perfided apartmentization that can go into all of this, but it's just not there anymore, it's just nothing being built. And if someone went to buy golf land, and you know for a fact that they couldn't pay for it, so it's another form of how to encourage a certain investment without swearing. I will once again say that this law, it is my judgment written for certain persons. You wouldn't be the first or last time a law in this country was written for a certain simple person. Speaking of golf, I want to say the same thing myself, I think it's exaggerating. It is now required even in Istria that the European Union by means of funds that will one day deliver to us and provide funding for golf courses on the example in Poreč. I just think that gentlemen should stop at the ball, we've lost 15 maybe 20,000 jobs in the '90s industry until today, and we're simply turning to the only one I would say to this golf course right now. Here we see in this law on page 2. I quote that the provisions of the existing law could only be managed by the commercial company of the Croatian Forests d.o.o. and the exceptional use of the bodies of the state administration and the legal person whose founder of the Republic of Croatia, would also be made possible in forests, the forest owners would allow licensed persons to perform all works. This would avoid the intervention of Croatian forests d.o.o. which would significantly facilitate the management and use of the listed forests and forest land and the Croatian Chamber of Engineers, Forestry and Wood Technology would perform their role and tasks for which it was established. It's a done quote. So everything is done in some way or rather suggested that it be bypassed I would say the authority of the state and the authority of the Croatian forests. Croatian forests, I agree, they are trombones, they are probably as inert as any state-owned enterprise. But I am also convinced that in Croatian forests no one will worry better than the Croatian institution. What is the message among other things, like this law? Wherever in Croatia someone thinks to make the golf course they can do it. The factory you can't do, it's out of the question, golfing yes. One farm you can't run, but golf is no problem, you can. One barn for 20 or 30 heroes you can't open up where you want or place but golf without a problem can't even count now. Now instead of going back to what fed us, which created us, which is why we recognize ourselves here we are thinking about golf, O.K., and it's economic activity, why not, but in everything it just needs to have a measure. I'm gonna say one more time, I'm not against golf, let them build themselves, but I'm also against the law being written for any person. I say once again, it's my impression that this law is written for those three under quotes "golf stamps" in the Motovun Forest Valley. No one has ever come up with the idea that golf can be done anywhere, someone came up I don't know in some counties and I guess someone just came to the President of the Croatian Golf Union, to some minister, say tourism, and said I want golf in that and that forest because otherwise I can't come to it. And someone decided, OK, no problem at all, you're not gonna go out with the villagers, you're not gonna go out with the tourists or I don't know who, and now you're gonna get a chance to do what you thought you were gonna do. Now you're asking yourself if you'll only be able to green that surface or if you can build apartments here. How many of these apartments, O.K., someone will say all of this will be decided by local self-government, all of it is actually clear to me but it still needs to be extremely careful. And that is why, at the very least, it is good that this law goes into two readings, and perhaps in three readings and between someone subscribing the map of Croatia where all these golf course stamps are located from Istria, across the Primorje-Gorski County down to Dubrovnik, what I know about Krapina-Zagorska etc., etc.... I agree that the state is maximumly debirocratised but I am against the fact that the laws are written for any individual person, and I have the impression that behind this law already now, not the Ministry of Agriculture, they don't even know it, they don't see it, but that one other ministry and some other individuals who have an impact on these ministers know what they're proposing and how they can come under the table and realize some of their own interests. And that's why, at the very least, it's good that this law goes in two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74379	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74380	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Cain, you and I have faced many times in this House of Highs on the woods. You always invited us into the woods, and I said get out of the woods. But I appreciate your concern for the Motovun forest, of course, I have a regal forest I'm extremely proud of, and half of my community is covered in forest. Well, that's something wonderful, and really any unreasonable act would make it a tragedy. But I answered because you said that investments are welcome, investments are welcome. I would say that you forgot to say more quality investments and that would certainly pull both economic growth and new jobs and all that is going, which is absolutely necessary. But I would like to say one very important question about these investments, mostly in the woods, for example, what needs to be warned about. What will happen after the detachment from the forest economic area if after a few years the investment fails, Mr. Minister. The investment goes down after a few years and it doesn't work out. What's going to happen to that area? If he gets out...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74381	Caine, Caine, not the Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74382	No, but an example, the minister is here, so he can hear, I think it's good to hear and spread the public, and Cain understood my message, so it's easy to get out of the woods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74383	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74384	Dear fellow MP, everything you and I enjoy, everything that we here in this House enjoy in some way has been made possible by those who came out of the woods in '45. And that very generation, whether you laugh or not, like it or not, created this tourist base that we live on today, created the infrastructure that we live on, industrialized the country, the industry that we later destroyed, that we don't talk about electrifying the country and that I'm not counting any further. So a little more peseta towards that generation that entered the forest went out into the woods, and it allowed us exactly what we enjoy today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74385	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74386	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Caine, you said that who better to master the forests than the Croatian forests and I agree absolutely, with all the most valuable forests absolutely the best lords of the Croatian forest. But you know what the situation in Dalmatia is, if the Croatian forests were the owners of stone, debris, where when you add it all together there would be no 10 meters of wood. And why, I know that you don't trust local self-government and that you often mayors, mayors and mayors aren't of trust with you, but I think it would be the most normal thing to say in the area of defining a spatial plan and if the spatial plan has defined something for a particular purpose that's in favor of local self-government units, and they're not worthy of forests, that it should be managed by local self-government units. In our stonery, there is such a procedure to isolate something from the forest economics... as well as for the most valuable Slavonic forest. And that is why I would disagree with you when you say who will be better lord than the Croatian forest, and you yourself said that the state should be deberocraticised. So let's let those who are in units of local, regional self-government be able to manage it in their area. Because you can't tell me that some mayor, mayor or mayor becomes a minister then becomes smart and then he can do it, but while he's mayor, mayor or mayor then he can't do it because he doesn't know it. So it's only when he comes to state office that he becomes smart. So let's give some trust to the local administration and to those areas where they're not worth the forest, let's give the opportunity to manage local self-government there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74387	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74388	When did I say I didn't trust local self-government? So I have maximum confidence. The truth is, I don't have any individuals who buy anything for 20,000 marks so they urbanize and then sell it for 1 million marks or euros. I have no confidence in those who will buy under quotes a station for 20,000 marks, and now it's a sale for a million and a half or more euros. I have no confidence in those who buy from that Istrian orphanage for one white, one black, one hill, and then sell in different combinations those same hills for three or more million euros. And finally, I agree with you, Croatian forests are the owners of similar land and in Istria as they are down in your Dalmatia and I agree that somewhere on the edges of these forests there is room for golf courses and everything else. However, we also go about all of this honestly, and I would not give such freedom to some individuals I met on examples that I had just tried to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74389	On behalf of SDSS, a colleague of Mile Horvat's. ... /The noise in the hall./... Don't shout.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74390	My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, with his associate, the deputy. Proposal for a law amending the Forest Act. You said in your introduction, and in your explanation, you said the basic reasons why these amendments to the law are being passed. So first of all, it's to regulate as fast, simpler and more effective as possible, if you say so, it's to expect, then deforestation and forest land. This is to determine the competence that in this case this isolated forest land will then be at the disposal of the government of the Republic of Croatia to manage and make available to the authority of the state administration. It's probably DUDI if I get it right and it's the same thing to comment on whether DUDI can be in addition to everything we've discussed already dealing with this, but good. The reason is also the possibility of building golf courses and camps and, of course, everything related to the need for accelerated procedures and creating an atmosphere and some kind of investment climate to get new investors in this way, etc., etc. And all that would probably be good, all of us can sign it as good and useful intentions. However, something needs to be said about this whole matter. I'll try to say a few things, some sightings of forestry itself. So it's a good thing this isn't an emergency procedure and it's good that it goes in two readings. That's what we all said, that's what we said in coordination. In addition, there should be at least 30 days between the two readings. It's some kind of legal minimum that for this kind of law it's kind of system law. To amend these types of laws, it is necessary to determine at least 30 days of public debate in order to give this public insight and how the public would express its opinion, in order for some relevant institutions to express their opinion on these amendments and only then would we then go to a second reading, i.e. in the correction of this first reading. I don't think it's even about making these changes, and the law isn't, so I don't see any opinion of the Ministry of Nature's protection on this whole thing that I think is very important. It's an element without which we can't properly look at this whole debate of ours. Eight amendments were said to have been made to the Forest Act. It's only in itself enough reason to bring one new, whole forest law. However, if a discussion of the changes, or the adoption of a new Law on Forests, were to be approached, we would have the opportunity to say something, some of our visions to say about the very management of forests, about forestry itself as an economic branch, and give some of their suggestions. Then we would probably also open up the question of what is being said here in the Croatian forests are unquestionably intellectually capacitated to do the best work. But the question is whether, therefore, I am not opening a debate only on the thesis, the question is whether Croatia's forests are the only economic operator who can effectively manage the forest fund in this country. Finally, we have some others, others already appear, some other companies that are very well-accompanied to do this job and take care of the forest fund in the Republic of Croatia. I can also say that there is in the work of this company that has an exclusive to the management of this great national good. There are certain behaviors that I can say are some relapses of the past. We have some phenomena where forest managers act as if they're small Counts, work their own private country with machinery, forests not to respond to anyone, no account, etc. And that's the topic that's the debate. Therefore, there is no ideal situation as we now want to show it when we talk about the management and management of the forest fund. The story and the relationship of the company to the sawmills were open. So we're talking about investment, we're talking about need, we're going to create, we're opening up room for new investments. And where we have already created capacities, they need to be invested, they need help. We're suffocating them. I'm talking specifically about the relationship of Croatian forests to small sawmills. We have a series of complaints, the way the quota is arranged, that is, how much goods are given to them annually so that these sawmills can work. You have the ends where the sawmills are the only source of existence, where 20, 30 people are employed around that sawmill. They feed 20, 30 families and now we reduce their quota of goods, which they should work with only because they mathematically do not fit into the formula projected by Croatian forests. And because of that mathematical projection, you're shutting down two sawmills, you're putting 50 people on the desk. These people go to the Bureau, come to the burden of the state, come to the burden of taxpayers, and we are talking about the desire to open new capacities and new investments in this sphere, that is, this branch. It is not good if in this matter Croatian forests behave in a way that prefers only large processing facilities. You should take care of math and some kind of social component that means life in a small environment. And this is how we question her. We could also talk about the relationship of the Croatian forests to biomass. What's the strategy for using biomass today? I know several cases that due to the negative relationship of the Croatian forests to biomass, some investors have left according to the security of raw materials. In particular, investors who had the idea to invest 6m euros in one plant six years ago left Baranja because they did not find a conversation in Croatian forests about the elemental matter, some guarantee for the use of biomass. And then we hear that biomass is going in some kind of raw state going to Hungary is being exported. So for me, these are things to talk about when we open up the question of the new forest law and when we talk about forestry. In addition, I have not noticed that, several times so far, we have had opportunities in our mandates to discuss the effects of using this great national wealth. So we never had a chance to see the report, the financial report of the company that has the largest national wealth in the Republic of Croatia. And of course, I'm going back to the main reason why these changes were made. Of course we support these motives to open such operations on forest property, i.e. forests and forest land, to enable investment. But I can't help but get the impression that behind all this, there's still an intention to sneak through the little door, so-called. investments in golf courses and camps. We have nothing against the golf course, I'm even an advocate of it. I'd be very pleased if one investor came up with an idea of 8 or 12 or 16 holes in Baranja said we'd make a golf course there, I'd be very pleased. But what's here for me is the fact that I remember last term when we reacted to the same thing that the position at the time wanted to do through the Land Law. That's when we all went out and said that the Golf Act was so unacceptable to us. Suddenly it's the same thing, suddenly it's a similar thing acceptable but we'll pack it in another story. That's the thing that's pretty vague for me here, even though I basically support the idea that golf courses should be built. Of course, campsites on the Adriatic Sea should have their own form, of course you must know who owns it, who controls it, of course you must also see certain investment plans, some investment plans as they will expand. And of course we should be the leading country in the Mediterranean on these camps. But I'm going back to the first question why was it a bad thing at the time, and today it's a good thing? There are three articles here for discussion and two articles that are a very good solution. Article 5(3) states, among other things, that forests intended for scientific research are created in the need of defence of the Republic of Croatia and are added to the construction of golf courses and camps and is... regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we added that definition of building golf courses and camps. What is not acceptable to me is that we put into the definition the priorities of the state we put construction by this definition we put into priorities the construction of golf courses and camps. We put that thing in the same level of priority as the forests intended for scientific research and the forests needed for the defence of the Republic of Croatia. Isn't that how we favored a dam to build a golf course compared to other construction entrepreneurs who don't do it? Is it not in some way that we have questioned some constitutional postulates of equality? And I see no reason why, in paragraph 3, golf courses and forests should be evened out for the needs of the defence of the Republic of Croatia. I also agree with my colleague, Boric, in Article 10, that the minister had a special exclusiveity here to declare a solution to a particular forest with a protected forest or a special purpose forest. I don't think it takes a minister of that kind of exclusivity to include some other segments in society. Article 15 of forest and forest land provides only forest infrastructure, buildings planned for defence purposes and monuments marking the sites of mass graves of war victims, etc. That's all we said, so then we add all the buildings that will be scheduled for spatial planning. Isn't that how we put the whole story too wide? Here we have said that we will be bound to some things called camps or golf courses, and in this article, the 15th possibility of building inside the woods is extended to everything that someone's spatial plan imagined and plotted for themselves. In the key article 57a, we see that the entire golf story is set out in Article 57, the whole problem is set out in Article 57. We think it should be settled with a special legal text if we're already going into that thing. And the more absurd it is, by contract, only one two-sided contract on building rights can regulate the ratio of building a golf course within forest land. It's an even more absurd situation. And of course we have paragraph 5, which says that the procedure and criteria for the establishment of the right of construction will be prescribed by the Government by a regulation. I think it's enough elements to make the whole problem of building a golf course if we're already focused on that thing to edit with a special legal text and all this more concrete and stronger explanation. It is a good article 32, which regulates OKFŠ – the common useful functions of the forest, it is good that it will now be isolated from direct use. So it is no longer addressed only to Croatian forests. I suppose it'll be an open special account at the ministry even though it's not visible here in law. It is stated in the explanation that it will be the OKFŠ will be held in the special account of the ministry or the title of some but I don't see it, it is not seen from this law. I think we should make it clearer, or define it. And, of course, it's good that the advisory service is re-separated from the company and has become a service again, a public institution with public authority. It was not logical to place the public authority service within a company called what was called. So it doesn't matter what it's called, but the attempt to get it back into the company was countering all legal logic and any other logic. Experience has shown that it needs to be singled out. I think the Ministry recognized it well and did it well. Of course the waist will follow private forest owners, control. They don't have a little 30% of the total forest fund is privately owned. It's a fact you shouldn't underestimate You just have to make sure that [[Breeder Zgrebec: Bring your colleague to the site.]] In order for that service to operate only enough resources, material resources for it to work in the field. [[Intruder Zgrebec: You have 10 replicas so you will continue.]] We agree that this text goes to another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74391	Thank you very much. Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74392	Here is a colleague of Horvat you have in all your presentation just directed all of us to what has already been said that a law like this should have a broader public debate not by urgent procedure. I think the minister said something like that would be possible. You also mentioned DUDI, but we didn't all mention the three laws that preceded this law. A little while ago, a colleague from the SDP mentioned and read a quote from the Spatial Planning Act. Practically through all these laws is going through this unfortunate golf course. In the Law on Spatial Planning which we have here, although the debate was so, although agreed, indicated, they put it in power di golf is particularly indicated. In this law, golf is once again indicated. I volunteered for the replica to argue which requires a wider debate, a whole new law that is related to both the Croatian forests and the whole part. We also have a law that's been thrown out of the forest, mountain-mounted law, units in these areas have lost significant incomes. Now it's changing and that percentage of profit returns from 5 seems to me at 3% is the proposal. These units of local self-government are being destroyed even more and there are such lands and such forests as we are talking about here. In this work, we should talk about that advisory service and the private forest owners, both the cataster and the garter that some land that is now in the reality of the forest, and in the books they are seduced as pastures, meadows, and this where it is allowed is practically hametically cut. So there's a whole series of indiscretions, I agree with you. Your debate went so widely in that direction, it's probably why there are so many replicas because this problem requires a whole new law and a completely new approach to the whole problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74393	Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74394	I thank my colleague for understanding or accepting my way of thinking. So I definitely think the problem of managing forest management needs to be discussed over and over again. That's why there's arguments. Of course it'll be... opposite. That's allowed. Everyone's going to say their opinions, but in any case, it's the idea that decentralisation is everything, so decentralisation is something that's the future of getting out of this situation where society is. In this context, it will likely be necessary to discuss the new organisation of forestry. As far as I'm concerned, I really think if two months ago we talked about what DUDI has to do in terms of the availability of state property, this job that we're still putting on his burden is how these people can do it all together, how much it's going to cost, and all of it opens up issues that are not seen in this proposal together.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74395	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74396	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Horvat, you mentioned in your presentation the possibility of building on forest land, so you too linked to Article 15(1) of the amendment and the addition of the law. I find it unacceptable that the Law on Forests, which should be the law of lex specialises, should protect forests and forest land in its article in one article, says that only buildings planned with spatial plans can be built in the forest and on forest land. I do not know that in Croatia, on any kind of land, construction land cannot be built but only those planned by a spatial plan. Therefore, what kind of a Minister's restriction on forests and forest land when it can be built there is only buildings that are determined by a spatial plan. Well, clearly, others can't. But this is no limit because we do not prescribe any other provisions that we can not plan the facilities of any other purpose there, so all that we can plan in the building land, in the entrepreneurship zones, in the tourist zones, in recreational areas, we can base these provisions of the article, i.e. the ministry has made it possible for local self-government to propose its own spatial plans, objects for any purpose in Croatia, both in Croatia and in the area of forest and forest land. And I think that, such a provision is unacceptable to me because then such a provision, this article really doesn't need it because it doesn't limit anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74397	Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74398	Well, you said the essence of what I wanted to point out. Article 15 should be amended accordingly. So, nomotechnically, this needs to be arranged differently. I suppose what the proposal was, but as I read it strictly is what you said and this thing should change anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74399	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74400	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Horvat, I'll look back on the part where you talked about the unfair division of quotas for various types of wood mass or wood products, biomass pardon. I've already talked here 4 or 5 times in a company from Gorski Kotar, in the town of Chabra because I know the problem and in 2012 this company was presented to the public as an example, a positive example of where the management owner translated into one trust and just misunderstanding of the state, misunderstanding of the ministry and above all public enterprises, i.e. d.o.o. Croatian forests caused the company to be almost shut down today. Hundreds of people were fired because the small sawmills that received several thousand cc's suddenly received 50,000 cc's of certain masses, and the one that created a finished final product such as Finvest they came to the edge to be simply thinking that they too became just a sawmill. If this is a strategy and it is possible to preserve the jobs of practice and life shows us that this is not the case. Especially in the Gorski Kotar where I read 180m euros today are only damages from this elemental disaster in the part of the forest, and that is something that will be resolved for a decade, if not more and that is why it is not clear to me that the state to which the owner addresses and prays for help, and also in the part where the dubiosis between the Croatian forests and this company arises, to find a way to get out of it. No, it's more like a hundred people in a small town of three and a half thousand people are out of a job. Do you know what that means for a town called Chabar, which is all in the woods?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74401	Reply to Mile Horvat replica I'm a colleague of Boric's. [[Intruder: It's a message that's not good for a society like this.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74402	Thank you. I didn't say or assume in my mind that in this quota distribution, someone was manipulated by the competent people in the Croatian forests, save God. I think they have their own rules, but what I'm saying is that these rules are something that fits into the computer and they're math, they're in, and if you don't meet those inputs, then close down two sawmills and let 50 people on the desk, and 20 years ago they worked and some, 50 families lived on it. So I repeat, I don't suppose I'm even insinuating that something bad is done, that it's abused, that it's convenient for someone, but I'm telling the fact that because of some of the criteria that have been set up to put life on it is causing job closure. One Austria, Switzerland, Germany rests on such small plants as 20 people. It's the base of the economy in these countries, and we're doing a good job of suffocating such small ones, and we prefer some big ones and we give them 100,000 cc's of goods a year to hire, I don't know, 100 workers, and this one with 50 workers is a small producer and we're going to shut it down, and we're going to prefer these. That's all I'm saying because it's just the whining of people from the field that after 20 years of such mathematical distribution of raw materials, they need to let their entire life's assets run down the water, or shut down, they're over-indebted, the banks will take their property, and these 20 people are going to pay taxpayers, or to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74403	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74404	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, a lot is said in the replicas that I noticed, but I certainly want to say that where you talked about the deadlines, colleague Horvat, that they should be respected, those 30 days and that they should respect the profession that was very commendably spoken of, both the tradition and the knowledge of our profession, and the profession made it very clear to itself that a new law was laid out, so they said. The second thing, as well as environmental protection, is that the profession has stated that measures should be respected and commitments taken, internationally, this is the one... Natura 2000 protocol, and therefore criminal provisions arise as a result of the reduction of the forest area. That's one thing. Another thing about this bio mass, so we remember a few years ago, the last years that it's been booming, the potential of such investments, and now what's really not acceptable is happening. You explained that. But I think there's still a little more to say about the advisory service, which you said was good that it came out, so from the Croatian forests, but one thing that I don't understand, which is a good thing to mention here. He says, there is no cost for the state budget, and I would like to ask, and what about the new employees from the Croatian Forests who move to the advisory service, who are financed from the budget? Is that consistent with the Ministry of Finance? That's a question I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74405	They've already crossed. Boris Kovacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74406	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Representative, just when you were talking about the distribution of these quotas and the protection of owners, or employees in small sawmills, and how it's not good for them to be detimised in this way, I'm just seeing and reading from the proposal of the legislators of this law to go towards stimulation and as much production as possible. Namely, little sawmills, of course, it's ugly to say now closing down 20 jobs, and I wonder why we're not going towards creation and clusters and finished products. Because that little sawmill usually produces semi-products. You mentioned, I don't know, that Austria rests on it, etc., but you didn't say, I don't know, like their federal state, for example. Styrian where a complete cluster was developed, not only the wood industry where the production was involved, imports, processing, metal processing industry, production I don't know what not, nothing is thrown, right, and it's still all expensive exports. That's what I stand for. And they did it where they have, if I'm not wrong, 20% of the state's forests, 80% of the private ones. We've got the reverse data. I'm sorry, it still hurt me when I was working at DIN Novoselec when... and that's the first-class... cut-up that went out, and we were buying chicken from Italians, beautifully shaped and today, I don't know which house doesn't have that furniture. So that's what I'm up for, and I'm reading that this promoter is going towards getting our market settled that way, because again, I'm also asking nicely, but then you know that the first one is going to fail these little ones. The first one's gonna fail if the little one opens up to the end of the market. And we're all up for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74407	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74408	Thank you. My colleague, I am, in any case, just like you for creating clusters, and somehow from a higher form of joint association, sharing common risk, profit of the market, and it's all a good thing, it's probably the future, but today we live in this real world that says that so many gaskers have closed down, so many people at the end of that closure went to the bureau and they're burdening the budget, and now in the rebalancing we're torturing where we're going to find extra resources for some things instead of saying, let's open up another 20 places and load the budget. That's my logic. Clusters are something that will come in itself which people will organize if they find a common interest, but I want to say that large systems that use national wealth called the Croatian Forests cannot observe the whole thing directly through mathematics, only through mathematics in certain environments they must function as a social component. Although it will save two sawmills and 50 jobs that only work there then they need these Croatian forests to give up some of their extra profits somewhere further to save these 50 jobs then we will applaud them here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74409	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74410	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A respected colleague bringing into any relationship or even mentioning this law and the Law on Golf Courses is a huge and incomparable injustice against the applicants themselves, as well as the very content of the law that was in force for golf courses and this bill. You can also see in an explanation and this stems from certain provisions that really want to preserve forests and forest land, but also in limited conditions and controlled economic activity. And since 2008 was a long time ago and was far away then I will remind you not only for your sake but for all of us here, article 1 already said "building a golf course of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia is an inclusive decoupling of forests and forest land and a forest-economic basis for building a quality Mediterranean and European destination. It must not be less than 85 acres." The owner who wants to round up his whole, which is that he has the right to claim more than 30 hectares and they are obliged to tell him only on his request, would only be required that his authority, that his government, that the units of local self-government or private owner must hand over that property. Also, this expropriation, as conceived by the Golf Act, went according to special provisions on the expropriation. It was their job. And that's why it seems to me that we can all agree here that when HDZ sees some danger in the proposed law that it can possibly be misused, then I think that it should be used precisely because they are masters in that, and I think Ministers will listen to them to listen to their suggestions on how the law can be misused and to find the answer to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74411	Thank you very much. The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74412	I thank my colleague, Ingrid Antičević. So we were participants and those events when we said that the concept of the golf law was not appropriate at the time or the needs of society, so we said we won't accept it, we won't go there yet because it's too soon, etc. And we went out... That's what we know happened. But now I don't understand why the proposer went into these procedures and then as a racio legion as the essence of the law put golf. You could've gone through without pointing him so explicitly here in the provision and ending this whole story of amending the Law on Forests and ending the matter and there wouldn't be today this debate with this tone or with this theme of golf. I'm not against golf again, I'm against the golf course, I'm giving God if such a serious project came to me in Baranja, but today we could have avoided this debate that we'd set the legal text or the changes in a different way and directed the whole debate in another direction. Because there are things here that need to be talked about and we haven't talked about. And in forestry there are things to talk about and we haven't talked about, we've focused on these famous golf courses. That's why I don't think it's very good for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74413	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74414	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A fellow Horvat, a government where your party was also a coalition partner, I am talking about the government from mid-2009 until the end of 2011, has made a decision on the termination of the Golf Law because we have then found that the law has failed to meet the purpose and objective, that there has been an open series of obstacles in the public and what is most important that the existing laws then and thus do not now prevent the construction of the golf course, so there has been no obstacle. We also concluded that during that time, while the law was in force, as far as I recall, no major golf course was made in the Republic of Croatia, no one doubted that it was more important in the Tourism Development Strategy, so that Croatia should certainly do so under all the environmental and other conditions, but that this law did not bring any particular good to Croatia and therefore we decided that this law should cease to apply. So I don't understand why the government is opening up to itself today so I can say hips to this debate that only comes down to those recommendations when that story is already closed once. So you don't need to create problems where you don't need to create them because the problem is pretty much over your head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74415	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74416	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Horvatt, you have really pointed out, there should be a Forest Act in front of us today, and we should talk about forest protection today, we should talk about the protection of the forest on the cross, about the Mediterranean areas, submeditated on management and protection, we should talk about the wood industry, and today we have a proposal for this law and you really said well, and we also told the ministers in the morning that it was at the heart of that golf course. Why? You mentioned what really saddens me that on the board your deputy said that before and before that payment for the BOX was used untransparently. That's really not true. That fee for the OkFŠ has been reduced twice in the former government, so now it's one time in this government. And there was always talk of that compensation as a parafiscal charge. And indeed, when we first cut, the second time we cut that fee, it was thought that it would somehow help hire, relieve large companies. However, it happened exactly the opposite of being, for example, I don't know, I'm going to say it now T-COM was released from large funds but at the same time fired some 3,000 wounded. And by now, Minister, I don't know how much you're familiar with, I don't know who advises you, I don't know, I really don't know, and I really don't know, and I really don't really know how to spend it, it's really on demining, spending on fire-fighting activities, building roads, raising new forests, rehabilitating fires, and even protecting these forests on the cross and in the area of Mediterranean and submeditated. If it wasn't for that, it'd all go out of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74417	The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74418	Thank you, comrade twilight. So, OKFŠ is one very serious financial category, one serious financial income. I don't think that OKFSH has been manipulated, the profession has been very serious to make sure that those funds are returned to the profession, taken from the forest and returned to the forest, I think it's been very serious until now. And it was unwarranted in the debates that it was a parafiscal impose to be abolished. If this were to be abolished, then it is to be questioned in one part and to postulate forestry. Therefore, no one is talking about the OCFSH as a parafiscal charge that should not be charged. And it's good that, but now, after some experiences, it's good that it's going to be on the account of the institutions, at the expense of the state, and what it's going to do then, it's going to be prescribed, I guess the Minister of the Regulation will use the KEFSH funds, how it will be withdrawn, and which documentation will confirm it even though it's already in practice the methodology that is known. So OKFŠ is a thing they used rationally and in the woods according to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74419	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74420	Thank you very much. I know that you worked in Croatian forests and that you know the problems of Croatian forests well, but it is evident that we have changed the law eight times, as we have changed the law so fewer people lived than the forest. In 1990, there were 35,000 people in processing facilities, today there are 10,000 people involved in wood processing. Every change in the legal solution was headed towards getting as few people employed in processing as possible, we exported raw materials. This bill and I want to replicate it is not just a matter of golf because these golf deals can also be implemented through the Strategic Investments Act. Because if it's a golf course, it's a big investment. And if it's a golf course like you have one in Baranja, it's less of an investment. But it's obvious that we have 400 million cubic metres of wood supply, that annual growth is 10.5 million and cut annually, and that's 6.6 million. There is therefore enough space for our producers to meet only one other and smarter management in the Croatian forests and try to offer exactly that wood mass to our players, our producers who would hire and retain existing and employ new people. So this focus is not only on golf courses, I think it's hiding something else because golf courses, they're big investments can be carried out through that piece of work called the Strategic Investments Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74421	The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74422	I'd like to thank my colleague Bubalo. So let's not repeat ourselves, we think this law, so this attempt and the proposal to amend the Forest Law should cover the problem of forestry. Unfortunately, the text is the way it is before us, we'll probably vote on these things. It is hoped that in the future, the Proposer will have one serious initiative to put on the table a serious debate on forests themselves and forest management. You have brought very serious data here on the capacities of the Croatian Forests, i.e. the forest fund of the Republic of Croatia. I don't know if they're current, but in any case they're data that says it's a very large natural and social wealth of this country and should work with that wealth with special attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74423	Suddenly, the replica dances.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74424	I thank the esteemed vice president. Comrade Horvat, in your discussion, you mentioned the release of the staff from the sawmills because of insufficient drinking raw materials and how we must help the environments, the small environments of their lives. It's all true, it's all true because small sawmills are getting less and less raw. And it is also an accurate finding that you asked yourself in a debate about the poor management of Croatian forests is the fact that trucks with foreign plates are moving more and more and more and more, and that raw materials are being exported to Italy, Austria, Slovenia. It would be normal for all the needs of our pilinars, our businessmen to be met first and then to offer surpluses at public and international and public auctions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74425	And Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74426	Thank you, Madam President. Comrade Horvat, I did not understand this remark of yours on Article 15, you said this remark all that was provided for in the spatial plan. You know that spatial plans are all required to go to the Department of Construction and that nothing can pass. I don't know what could be dangerous in that area except to build some dangerous industry, some chemical industry that could be harmful to some forest in the neighborhood. But all that is foreseen by the spatial plan, what units of local self-government or regional plan it is always in line with the ministry and there should be no problems and I don't see why they would object to what the spatial plan intends not to do. We oppose that our junk, the stoneman, where our economic zones are, for example. Longfield zone. That's where you passed, that was also the forest area, and there weren't any trees in that area. It might be something, a couple of smurfs all over the area, but it's the same forest area and area that we need to ask for agreement to single out forest economic bases. That's what makes no sense. It would make sense that the woods, I'm not an expert in the woods, but it would be logical to classify the forests so those unquality or this... or something that is in Dalmatia a stoner that it can't be a forest area, that we don't need to ask for any special approvals because it could be immediately given to local self-government units at their disposal. Here's the woodskeepers complaining, okay let's fight back, but there I don't see any use for those couple... being in some stoner so that we now need special permits to ask, special consent to do something there that needs a unit of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74427	On behalf of the promoter, Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74428	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I listen very closely to the debate and the replicas, and I've really decided that I won't answer until the end, but since there's been a lot of incorrect information repeating itself all the time in a line-up debate, I'm going to use this opportunity to react now so maybe we don't have any misunderstandings or false interpretations for all of this. I will agree with you that the spatial plans of the units of local self-government are extremely important and therefore I am surprised by the reaction of your colleague who is the mayor, the mayor and what you find in this text the amendments and addition of the law, because exactly the spatial plan that you bring as a unit of local self-government is put in place as a measure of whether something which is a forest or forest land is isolated or not. The difference is that the ministry no longer gives a preliminary opinion, and then after a few months or a year when you have already adopted or more of a spatial plan, it gives consent or does not give consent to the separation. At the moment when the spatial plan comes to the ministry, it is not up to Minister Jakovina to decide on it but to send the ministry's professional services, the Forest Administration, to the Croatian Forests. In the Croatian forests we have 1350 graduate engineers, magistrates, doctors who give their expert opinion whether something forest, forest land, is consistent with forest economic plans based on which it can be singled out or not, returning to the ministry of colleagues in the administration who are the same experts writing an opinion, passing all the levels that need to be signed to the minister himself. In addition, if you have looked at this law a little bit better in Article 10, which refers to Article 25, the ministry says that a solution to the approval of the forest plan can be declared by a particular forest as a protection or a special purpose. So not some special true minister who will be above your spatial plan. This is just taking down one or two steps that made it impossible for you to have investment in your economic areas or in your spatial plans if it is sport, recreation, tourism, camps, but not in particularly valuable economic forests. You won't get a positive consent to this if there's room in the spatial plans at other sites to do it. In this way, we eliminate what was bad and inconclusive and narrow throat for investment in the existing law. I haven't heard a word about camps. For 20 years, camps have been dead in this country, illegal. It's real construction. And for golf courses and camps, we give the right to build, based again on the plans of how something is set out. I think it was a question of who would rule. It is stated that they continue to master Croatian forests with forest which is also the subject of separation according to your spatial plans. I think there have been several objections to the intricacies, i.e. the non-consultation of the profession, i.e. calling on the names of some individuals who had along with the environmental associations of the objection, the Committee for the Making of this Law. In addition to colleagues from the Ministry, both Croatian forests and the Croatian Forest Institute and the Croatian Chamber of Forestry and Wood Industry Engineers and the Croatian Forest Society and the University of Zagreb Faculty of Forests and representatives of the Croatian Association of Private Forest Owners were involved. I don't know who can better represent the profession, science and institutions of these people who have worked on these amendments and additions to the law. He didn't write himself Minister Jakovina. I followed the making of the whole law, I was prepped by my colleagues, participated, but these are the people who wrote this law. As far as forestry is concerned, the strongest profession possible, all institutions involved. For months it's been working on this, inter-resorial consultation across all ministries,... The DORH and the other institutions that were. Another important note, you mention a new law, that the new Forest Act will go but is currently under discussion at a very high level at the level of the council, a new EU strategy for forests. It will most likely be adopted by the end of 2014. We are already moving and doing preparations for the new law, but it was necessary to remove and work on these five things that are a narrow throat and that will help you first of all units of local self-government to make it easier for you to put your economic zones and your projects into operation. And another thing, to solve what we have dealt with among other things, the advisory service, the KEFŠ and the management of forest land that is in the nature of agricultural land, if it is given to government decisions and previous governments to raise years of damages. It was an intensities that these amendments to the law for a year or a half to the adoption of a new law that will once again be done in a big public debate, a broad circle of people who will work on it, we bring it in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74429	Thank you very much. Time's up. Thank you. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74430	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I really don't know if anyone has deceived us on the board or deceived you. As for the broad public debate, it was not a fact, and among other things, you listed engineers, or the Chamber of Forest Engineers and Wood Technology, and they, according to their opinion, were absolutely not invited to this debate. I was just on the board asking who was on that committee. Indefinitely, professors from the University of Forest, Deans, etc. were mentioned. But, Mr. Minister, my question to you is the same. Let's say that here you have now explained everything to us that it will be very transparent and we don't have to be afraid of anything, but this law is really not transparent, and it's not even transparent. Because here, for example, tell me what happens if some investor, someone who's supposed to build a golf course gets, so that's what starts to bring it down, trees, everything, everything. But he's failing. And I don't know what's gonna happen then. And then he can't bring in, of course, this plot of purpose, nowhere is absolutely anywhere. Or I don't know that. It doesn't matter. But what is also, a little inquiry with your assistant really the Croatian Chamber of Forestry and Wood Technology Engineers has not been consulted on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74431	Replication response, Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74432	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I didn't say we had a wide public debate. I said in making a new law that we would do it in the broadest possible participatory way for all those involved with presentations in both the public stands and everything else. Here I was talking about people who worked and were members of the committee. Is the dean of the forest college, director of the forest institute, president of the forest union association, the forest society and the rest. There were no gentlemen of your party colleague Felak and some others who had been in the administration of the Croatian forests before. And they're the ones who briefing you about how there was no waist in there. I guarantee you that from the dean onward the most professional men were in the making of this law. When you say whether an investment can fail, so it's in the real sector happens, it happens in economic areas across the country. But should we specifically foresee this in the law, even if you look at Article 25 a little bit better, you would see in paragraph 4. When we talk about cutting down forests for golf courses or camps, I think I have made it very clear that only the necessary procedures are being done in the area for which the plan must be developed, and based on this plan we get forest status from a special purpose, i.e. the possibility of singleing out and giving out the right to build for those things that are listed not for hotels, not for apartmentisation, not for 300 and a few hectares that are in a way, and you know that they are divided for golf courses before I run the ministry in a rather non-transparent way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74433	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74434	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, of course, injured the Rules of Procedure, and he injured him in Articles 238 and 217 when he began to irrevocably list the names of some persons from allegedly Croatian forests that I had never heard of in my life. If Mr. Secretary thinks we need instructions, he's wrong. We can study a problem enough, it's completely inappropriate for a minister to list names that I've never heard of in my life, and their name is now spinning here. What are these people to you? And as for the same, allow one more sentence. It's offensive when you say that we know very well about some sort of 300 and something, something, a hectare, I don't know what land it is for something. Mr. Minister, you're getting out of this defenseless situation where you've come across a bill of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74435	No injured article 238, for he says that during the debate, a representative must not act. Representative, you said 238. No injured Rules of Procedure. The minister listed who participated in...... My colleagues, don't take it easy on me now. [[You can't hear dusk, you can't hear it.]] Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74436	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, thank you, Mr. Minister, for teaching us how to make spatial plans. Space plans have been made, we know how and how to comply with all norms. So there's no speech and they've been brought. In case it's going to change, target changes, because that's how you know it's going on. It has its own deadline, and I need that same opinion, and I'm aware of that, but I don't really need it. Because we have a half forest and we don't do it that way, you probably know where they're going to go for some kind of targeted change, etc. But the other thing I want to say is the same thing. Well, it is good and necessary to respect the profession that your colleague Vasic was talking about. The waist made it clear. Because of the extent of the changes in everything that very much, to advocate, therefore, the making of new laws and in that part. Well, it's good to respect the opinion of these green associations that advocate environmental protection. It's very important. So we have an environment preserved in European frameworks that is of great quality and good, and in that part, certainly every initiative that will preserve this environment is good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74437	The reply to the replica of Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74438	Thank you, esteemed colleague. Yes, every new change to the spatial-planned documentation will allow you to go with the request and begin the procedure of changing and supplementing the spatial plan. There are no more targeted, though, or dotted changes, but the whole procedure. And yes, with such things, the ministry will give a binding opinion on whether or not the forest is being touched for a particular purpose. When you're talking about the profession and I'm also taking the opportunity to answer to my dear colleague, twilight. I just mentioned the name of a colleague you referred to as a waist. Should I say once again that Mr. Professor Milan Orsanic, who is the dean of the Forest College, is not a representative of the profession. Should we talk about Dr. Diana Vuletic, who is the director of the Forest Institute, who worked on this law, are not representatives of the profession. Is Mrs. Sylvia Rabbit representing the Croatian Chamber of Forestry and Wood Industry Engineers not a profession. I think I can list everyone on the committee, people who are professional and working and who have worked on this law along with my ministry colleagues. Individually you will probably find at least between these 1350 who work in Croatian forests at least 1000 names that were not in the commission. They can't all be on board. It was they who were the most professional and the most qualified, who helped us make a good bill. With your help through two readings, we'll make it even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74439	And now what's the violation of my colleague's Rules of Procedure, twilight?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74440	The Honorable Vice President, because the insistent minister distorts the real truth about what he was saying. And there's the injury, and it insults me, but it insults the people he mentioned when he said they instructed me. And the ones that you've just listed are people too distinguished to even mention them in this context. And it may be embarrassing for you ministers to distort the truth here. And I'll get you a phonogram now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74441	My colleague, speak to me because you've lifted a plate of damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74442	I'm sorry, but it bothers me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74443	Excuse me, you're yelling from the bench first. You're yelling that the minister is lying when he's talking about who was involved in making the proposal. ... What do you mean? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You yelled at me, right here at me. ... So now you're yelling. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, just take it easy. On behalf of the HSU Club... Wait for your colleagues to calm down so you can calm down in a calm atmosphere. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] A colleague, Marija Ilic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU. Comrade Shuker, go out with your colleague Sobol out and discuss what you have.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74444	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with an associate. Namely, I will begin my discussion with the allegations of the Law on the Forests. Therefore, forests and forest land are of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and have its special protection. So, it's a quote from the Forest Law as well known to everyone. I would reshape that sentence and add forests and forest land are national treasures, public goods as well as water for which the Republic of Croatia must have special protection and care independently of which government is currently concerned. This is good for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and this national interest should not be affected by suspicion that through the law it can harm the preservation of that national good. So by destroying, selling, various unfounded concessions and forests and water, this time it's about forests, we can easily turn into naked people without anything, the only thing we can become is someone's colony. Forests are treasures that must have strategically well-developed long-term management plans and programmes because they do not, of course, come within a month or a year, but for decades to serve their purpose. One period was uncontrollably exploited, collapsed, without worrying about what was most important for the restoration. The obvious evidence is the Slavonian oaks from Slavonia from which I come, which have been exploited and exploited for decades, therefore, without a long-term recovery plan. Multi-annual neglect and the care of the responsible has reflected in the forests as well as the creation of profits for the entire society. Of course, the greatest and most important profit of man’s life is every other, and the forests are a source of health and wealth and a major factor in protecting the environment. Forests are also a significant medium of economic development. The forest law is a fundamental act in the area of forestry which regulates the use and availability of forests and forest land as a natural wealth and with a view to maintaining biodiversity and ensuring management on the principles of economic sustainability, social responsibility and environmental acceptability. Therefore, the proposer of this legislative proposal had to make sure in any proposed provision that it was a national good and, accordingly, to make as high-quality a proposal as possible to include all interested public, state institutions, the non-governmental sector, representatives of the wood industry, the Faculty of Woodland, private forest owners and even if foreign experts as experienced advisers are required. And there are still discussions within the clubs themselves and shooting the situation on the ground. At least I'm not familiar with it. This is how we are left to react to what would say primal, which is a struggle for every leaf and every tree in our forests. With due care, the forest management plan and the imperative step-up of their reconstruction had to be developed in order to become economically profitable and yet other lungs of the state. In our Slavonia and Baranja there is certainly forest land that is not yet available for restoration and foresting because there is an evil called mine waiting for them. A faster solution to this most inhumane monster that lurks in a fairly large area in Croatia, and the forest land will be able to restore shaming. The law would simply have to contain the obligation to reforestation in places where the forest is no more, where it has been disembarked and where the breadth grows. Article 3 of the current law taxively states that forests are a specific natural wealth with common useful functions and require a special management and management method. Therefore, this hastily passed law simply cannot be based and quality-developed, it cannot include a profession that I am sure is not consulted enough and I would have had much to advise and suggest, based on the nature of the experience in order to preserve our national treasures from any malversion but also entrenched. We can only hope that when exempting forests or works of forest and forest land for some other purposes such as. building camps or golf courses from the position of the economy rather than from the socially responsible to observe and what is very important is ecologically acceptable. That the profession, not politics, had a major word on the assumption that it was going in the direction that we often like to say a broader social interest. Of course, as in everything and here, there are two sides, two groups of different attitudes and opinions. On the one hand, those very interested in profit, those who can financially enter the business worth tens of millions of kunas and, on the other hand, advocates of the preservation of a country that will certainly not easily support such a law because they are rightly afraid of the abuse of the authorities, whoever they are, those who will not or will not be able to use the mechanisms of preventing abuse of power and malfeasance because we are all burdened by the corruption history of a little bit but also paranoid. But more than corruption and malfeasance is the fear of the permanent desolation of our forests. We believe that the concession is a better solution, that such a way does not take away the country's national well-being, that it is only used and that investments and EU funds can finance exactly what can be protected and preserved by the plant and animal world in our forests, and that employment can be improved, of course, with strict compliance with the rules. Changes to the entries of a lot of newspapers, which I hope will not be misused or abused, such as investments of particular national interest. In fact, it's not said, at least I didn't notice probably because of the short time available to us anything that would happen if some camp and that was already a question set, a camp or a golf course collapses and goes bankrupt. I haven't noticed, and I'm not sure if it's going back to that special purpose forest under management as an economic forest. For more reflections on changes, it would take more time. I feel like investors are here and they're just waiting for us to change the law and start building golf courses. We consider it extremely dangerous to build a golf course and put again as an interest of the Republic of Croatia, which is more placed even above the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia since it mentions forests as the interest of the Republic of Croatia which enjoys its special protection while golf courses are not even ever. This amendment again favours one activity as well as isolated investors in golf courses and following the content that goes with them, which puts all other projects and investors in an unfavourable position. We also consider this article to be a sort of extension of the Law on Golf Courses, which we remind it abolished in 2011 and certainly not for no reason. In Article 1, the concept of forest owners should be precisely defined by definition or the owner of the forest may be both the owner and the owner. This term should be brought into line with the terms of the Law on Property, Owner, Owner, Owner because we have a situation where the owner of the forest is entitled to another legal or natural person. This concept should also be complemented by the term large forest owner or similar, the large forest owner is a legal or natural person who manages the forest more than 500 ha. This Article should lay down the category of forest owners returned to in the process of recovery of the seized property. Article 14 is proposed to delete paragraph 4 of the applicable Article 31 of the Law. This leaves unannounced release of accompanying documents for wood visited outside the forest surfaces and forest owners. There was thought of wood and hedges or surfaces, which are led in the catastrus as ores or meadows, and in nature they are partly or entirely surrounded by forest, and they are privately owned. Furthermore, from this follows, and what about such areas that are in the nature of the forest and in the catastrous ores, swamps and the like, and what about the change of culture? The law should stipulate that, according to automation, what is undoubtedly in the nature of the forest must be redeployed by law because it is hardly the small forest owner interested in acting under Article 5(3) of the existing law. It's also a source of manipulation. Article 15 is amended as follows: Article 37(1) and the proposed amendment is considered to be a simple law on entrepreneurship zones in forests and on forest land. This change simply creates an ideal basis for further re-use of forests and forest land into construction. It's just amazing that it's going to be possible by one act, so with a spatial plan to allow any buildings in the forest and forest land to be built. We therefore propose to delete the word building that is planned for spatial planning. Furthermore, Article 23 proposes to delete paragraph 5, which determines that forest owners allocate 2.5% of their sales revenue to the budget of local self-government to maintain forest roads. The existing provision could apply to small forest owners, but large forest owners should be subject to road maintenance provisions as well as to companies. Otherwise, there is a collapse and devastation of forest roads because the return of forests to large forest owners will return a large part of the forest roads that local self-government simply will not technically be able to maintain. This provision may apply only to small forest owners but for large ones it is necessary to establish the obligation to allocate part of the road maintenance revenue. We believe that Articles 25, 26, 27 and 28 need to be considered and in the bill of law, because it is unacceptable to refurbishing valuable forests and forest land into building plots. We also hold that the combination of these provisions of the Bills and the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of valuable forest and forest land are simply given to investors and open the door to uncontrolled construction and concreteisation of natural resources in this case of forests. And without anyone saying, we are not and are not against building a golf course and not saying that forests must not be an obstacle for people and the development of the economy possible construction of golf courses and camps by the bill had to and should be foreseen only in the area which would be approved continuously, a professional body composed of representatives of competent ministries, not to list them you know which, Croatian forests, Croatian waters, forest colleges, and above all professions and environmentalists. And let me finally quote to you the motto of 1965 on the occasion of the 200th anniversary of the Forest Great, which reads: "There is nothing more beautiful than a tree on a rock and a goal when the forest is greened." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74445	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74446	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Ilic, I agree with almost everything you've said that I want to underline perhaps the moment where you emphasized the importance and importance of shaming. Smuggling is very important, but it's good in the context of this connection. Namely, if the forest is cut down, it comes up and now someone remembers to build a playground, there's no more lungs what you're talking about, no more breathing, there's breath. But the other thing that needs to be stressed again, if by chance this investment that's said to the big bell fails, what's left? Shikara. So what's it going to get re-entered into forest management? So let's just say it's coming back up again. How long it takes for that oak to grow back and be what we are proud of both Slavonia and me in the Repassian forest on an oak tree. The only thing I don't agree with is where you said you would if you needed to hire both foreign advisors and experts. Yesterday we heard about the master's plan that it's not so good they cost first because there's no money, and the colleague said that we do have a profession that knows and has a long tradition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74447	The reply to the replica Maria Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74448	Your Honor, I'm glad you agree and we have the same attitudes somewhere, I guess that'll be progress for the better tomorrow. I didn't mean to underestimate our profession, I have a lot of trust in them, and I know they're knowers, but it's not on the renegade of people with a long tradition with great forest space and forests, of course, that they would be welcome to do something and advise us on some business.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74449	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74450	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Ilic, you said in your debate, I will try to quote you that the deforestation of forest land for the construction of golf courses and camps must be responsible. I don't know if it was a lapus or a fundamental misunderstanding, but the fact is that according to this bill there is no detachment of forests from forest land for the construction of golf courses and camps. So forests and forest land on which golf courts and camps will be built will have to be primarily declared a forest or forest land for a special purpose or for a special purpose, and the most important thing is to remain in the forest-economic area of the Republic of Croatia. So the investor will only get the right to build, and the property is still state-owned.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74451	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74452	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I fully agree with your exposure. I'd like to add one more thing, you've been really good at saying how important these woods are and why they're important. And there should be no activist or green action or any other green associations and in order to understand the importance of management of this importance of the forest. So what I would like to say is organised forestry in Croatia has a 300-year tradition, since the 1507th year began, in the code it appears from Maria Teresa. What's more important is that we in Croatia have 95% of our forests are natural forests. What is more important, in 2001 we received an FSC, therefore a certificate, it is an international and honorable recognition that our forests are managed in a way that preserves their originality. What was most important was that the generations of foresters were concerned about it. It's also generations of foresters and generations and these professors, and these are both today's deans and professors of former deans, sold out, all foresters and foresters, and that's why we're where we are. And that's why we have these woods. And that's why the profession needs to be commended. And that's why we can't handle the names of people who are professional and use them in some seduction. What they say I really respect. I really respect and I think the woods should be preserved. And that there can be no golf course that can have at least 18 holes in more interest than preserving the forest. Others are camps that are already there, which are led to be on forest land and in nature absolutely no forest, it is quite another procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74453	Thank you very much. colleague Maria Ilic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74454	Dear MPs, my exposure has gone in this direction and I believe all of us here need to be preserved and preserved for future generations because they mean life. But I didn't mention any names... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74455	Oh, my fellow twilight, so don't keep yelling out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74456	So, with names I haven't handled, but of course my saying exposure was only in the interest of protecting the forest. And nothing malicious about what I said or said was malicious in order to harm neither this law nor the bill of amendments or additions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74457	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Nenad Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74458	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with assistant, colleagues and colleagues. How many of you have traveled through Gorski Kotar in the last month and seen the cataclysm of the weather caused by the icy rain in the area. The damage to forests in this area is 242m kuna or 32m euros. The total otherwise is estimated at 180m euros. 30 hectares of forest surface have been destroyed and it will take a million and 158 metres of cubic wood mass to cut. Forests and waters are a basic prerequisite for life and survival in that area. The forest has plenty, it can't be seen from wood forests and it grows in the yard, but domestic processors find it hard to get to the mass needed to make wood assorteds. Advantage, instead of having an advantage over others, is being loaded onto trucks mostly by foreign registration plates and exported to Italy, Austria, Germany. The revenue from the forest contribution in the mountain-mounted area is only 5%. We all know that this Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area is now on the air and that as of 1 January 2015 it ceases to apply. This also means that the forest contribution instead of 5% will be only 3.5%. So many ends in the future will come from a forest contribution. That's why I've sent the amendment and I'm asking for your support to raise the forest contribution from 3.5% to 5% and 15% for areas of special state concern and mountainous mountainous areas. 12.3 million kuna is the profit of the Delnice Forest Management. If the profit remained in Gorski Kotar, at least 100 jobs could be opened, 100 families, one of these families could be employed and what would be the profit for them both for Gorski Kotar and for the Republic of Croatia. However, from that gain in Gorski Kotar there will be almost nothing left. Once the area was dominated by the Forest economy of the 12 Forests, 2 work units,... A transport company that counted 80 trucks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today there is nothing left, there are some 700 employees left and the tendency to reduce that number. What does the new Forest Law bring? How much damage will he cause when it is due to be carried out by emergency procedure? But I am pleased that today will still be said by the minister that he will go in two readings. This law rules 47% by land area of the Republic of Croatia. And that law is very important and important. The final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests or the Law on forest deforestation determines primarily the issues governing the demarcation of forests or forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia and the forest economic area. Article 15, Article 17 of the current law is amended and reads: "Only forest infrastructures, buildings designed for spatial plans, defence facilities and monuments marking the sites of mass graves of war victims can be built in the forest land.". In paragraph 4, I quote: "Extremely from paragraph 3 of this article, a spatial plan that plans to expand the construction area to forests and forest land can only be adopted and explicitly with the ministry's positive opinion.". This Regulation shall enter The final proposal for a law on deforestation reveals all the intentions of the promoter Amendment to the Law on Forests, so I quote: "In forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, the right to build for the purpose of playing golf course and campsite can be established.", etc.. That's the purpose of this law. It is further discussed in Article 27 on the compensation paid for deforestation and forest land. In paragraph 2, I quote: compensation belongs to a company, persons referred to in Article 17(3) of this Act and to forest owners who have the right to compensation for the unrealized part of the income. It is evident from this that not only will the state forests come under attack, but the forests private owned by forest owners, which are close to 600,000, and which will also, in the same way as the '50s last century, be left without something their great-grandfathers created and raised. It seems quite realistic that the blindness of the minister is so pronounced that it does not realize that such ideas will only cause deeper division in this and so divided and polarised society. But it's a revolt of hundreds of thousands of citizens who are directly concerned because it's not just about tradition, family heritage, it's about..., quality wood mass, and ultimately money. This Regulation shall enter The final draft of the law referred to in paragraph 6 shall specify that, quote: the method of calculating the fees referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be prescribed by the Minister by a Regulation. It is not quite clear why such a thing is prescribed by a minister when there are already existing acts such as a forest compensation pricer from which long-term damage can be assessed by the detachment of a forest or the minister can better assess it. In particular, it is an impressive paragraph 3 of Article 29 of the final proposal for a law on deforestation. The contract referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be concluded for a specific forest and forest land declared by the Ministry for a specific purpose for the purposes of golf courses and campsites on the basis of an approved forest management programme with a special purpose. I especially stress that. It is evident that the Ministry is running brand new standards in the forestry of the Republic of Croatia, thanks to which there will be no longer a lot of forests, but the fact that the current Forest Act in Article 27 provides for what these are forests with special purposes and Articles 4, 5, 6 of Article 25 of that Article is clear that these are forests with a special purpose for the production of forest seeds intended for educational research and teaching, and forests intended for the purposes of the defence of the Republic of Croatia. Using common sense, it is not possible to link the special purpose of golf courses and camps with special purposes which are in the category of production of forest seeds, research and such basic things as defence of the Republic of Croatia. But it is definitely obvious that it is necessary that we all go to the defense of the country we live in because if the competent ministry pushes through these proposals, it is evident that the disaster of national proportions follows. Forests in the Republic of Croatia occupy almost 47%... The Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has envied rich but not inexhaustible springs of drinking water. Since forests are a natural filter and a tank of drinking water, the rich waters of the Republic of Croatia are in strong correlation with a large percentage of the forest in the total surface of the Republic of Croatia. Any reduction in the area under forests will inevitably express, negatively affect the quality and quantity of water throughout the country. Forests, by their presence on a given field, have an indirect but significant impact, for example, on agricultural production because they accumulate moisture, reduce temperature extremes, have a positive impact on a number of adverse meteorological phenomena in flora and fauna, a fine mechanism of CO2 storage, production of oxygen, wood mass, should not even be spoken. The forest of the Republic of Croatia is worth about 1% of the total value by looking at all the benefits provided by the forests, and they are reduced to the common name of the general forest functions. Since the estimated value of wood mass in forests owned by the Republic of Croatia accounts as the amount of several tens of billions of euros, it is not difficult to conclude that it is... a great wealth if we know it, I repeat, that it is only cca 1% of the values given to us by our forests. On private forests, i.e. The forest is owned and... forest owners, followed by interesting changes, and the most important one is that there will be an advisory service that is actually a product of Agricultural Advisory Service, which will allegedly be attached to 30 foresters currently employed in the company of Croatian Forests, with experience of working on private forest management. It is just a continuation of a sad story in which everyone systematically needs to work on the welfare of forests owned by forest owners, conceived and guided in a way that invests as little money in the welfare of these forests as possible for a simple reason, to spend as little money as possible from the generally useful forest fund, and the ultimate goal is for these funds to be passed over to Croatian forest companies so that they can show positive business at the end of the business year, despite the fact that they are lords with a billion-euro wood mass. Croatian forests can barely show that they are operating positively, and this is unfortunately a state that has been going on for years. Why is there a claim that it's all sad? For the simple reason that Croatian forests abolished the advisory service in 2010 or perhaps a better term... the company of the Croatian Forests, and now after exactly 3 years, again goes to create some new advisory service with the demand for savings and better efficiency, and the results suggest that we waste millions needlessly, with less efficiency. It's that sad component. What is best said is the fact that in 2008, a colleague named Lesar filed a lawsuit for the purposeless spending of funds from the fund, which was worth 80 million kuna. Today we heard that for 2012 this fund is about 50 million kuna. But the same ones who ran the advisory service then intend to sit in those chairs even now. It is quite accurate that this is the last act of tragedy related to the welfare of private forests in the Republic of Croatia. The European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development from which the Republic of Croatia has over 2 billion euros to spend at the position of regional development, and part of the story related to forestry should be led by a person who has proved unable to spend money from a common useful forest fund, i.e. the money that existed in the account, and now should lead the main word when it comes to the withdrawal of money from the euro funds and through quality projects that someone should first design, then write, and then implement. It is evident that this person does not have that quality. Because of several golf courses we are able to invaluate to give what is actually worth an amount that is invaluable to us. Resources like forests and drinking water all with hope that we will experience unmarked economic and developmental blooms because someone will build us a pair of golf courses and at the same time free of charge take us out of our forests and, by the way, make us accidentally consume not exactly the cheap bottled water that they will sell to us I don't know Coca Cola, Agrocor, Jamnica, or I don't know who else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74459	Milorad Batinic, vice president of the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74460	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Namely, my replica should take one half hour to respond to all and incorrect allegations, false interpretations and general understanding of changes and additions to this law. I'd like to remind you to read article 3. The forest law means where it speaks of natural wealth, specific goods, generally useful functions and where it says among other things, what are the general useful functions of the forest. Ensuring space for rest and recreation. One plus a series of these others. Namely, what offered me a replica is primarily one term that you use to remove the forest. I tried very carefully to read the amendments and the additions to the law, but believe me, I didn't find anything to write it. You instructed us to be willing to sacrifice wealth, immeasurable in a material sense for golf courses. Well, that's just not true. You distort the facts they write in the law. This law is primarily in line with a series of laws that preceded this law from the spatial, the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Strategic Investments, the Law on the Advisory Service. What has been introduced into these laws has been transposed here into this law that is binding. So, the primary alignment. The second thing is the possibility that if there is an interest that through spatial plans, through a special purpose forest programme, it is possible that if someone wants a piece of forest land to build a golf course. I just don't know if that's what some commentator said, but you missed the whole football game.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74461	The answer to the line, Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74462	Thank you. Well, since I come from the edge of the forest, and since I know how much we benefit from these forests growing around us, it seems to me that this law is going towards a bit of deforestation. Just like a series of laws where you say this law is harmonised, because I don't see any good if we're going to give a natural fortune to someone to run because of the golf course, that we're going to benefit more from these golf courses, than we're going to benefit from the forest and those products that I was talking about, about water, clean air, etc. I don't want to do it again. I think it's worth more than someone's gonna make a couple of golf courses or camps. I agree let it be done, let it be made but let the forest be touched as little as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74463	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74464	Thank you. Dear colleague Pleše, you spoke on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club – party of work. However, I listened carefully. I think it would be very correct if you finally mentioned the name of a graduate forestry engineer who gave you the whole text you read.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74465	You should check in with your colleague. All right, here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74466	I spent a little bit of time, so I got out. My colleague Jelash, if I have used the materials that my colleague delivered to me, I don't think it's a sin because we've consulted on that law, even though I've respected some things from his argument. I don't think I did a doctoral dissertation, so I'd have to name the sources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74467	On behalf of the HDZ club, colleagues Franjo Lucic and Branko Bacic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74468	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. This assembly discussed at the end of 11 months last year the amendments to the Law on the Agricultural Advisory Service, and these amendments to the Law of Šumarska advisory service which until then was an integral part of the trading company of the Croatian Forests d.o.o. has become an integral part of the advisory service. I then referred to the question of the Minister that 29 employees from the Croatian Forests will be taking the job of advisory services in forests and forest land of forest owners. According to Article 68(3) of the Law we are discussing today, 29 employees should carry out these tasks among other things: providing expert advice, instruction, organisation and export, education and training of forest owners and organising and training of forest owners. Organization of professional education, workshops, seminars, events, conferences and exhibitions in the area of forestry for forest owners, education implementation, professional advice and technical benefits to users in the implementation of rural development measures. Organisation and preparation for the use of funds from international funds intended for the development of forestry and rural development. Participation in the creation of acts of fire protection, forest and forest land of forest owners, collection of data in forest fires in forests of forest owners and delivery to the ministry, establishment of monitoring systems and reporting relevant institutions on the occurrence of harmful organisms in forest forest owners. Participation in the implementation of public procurement procedures for the performance of the work of biological forest restoration through licensed performers, proposing to the Ministry of Authorisation of the forest management programme and keeping records of forest owners' forests. Of course, I have touched or listed only 7 out of 14 activities that these 29 persons should carry out, covering nearly 700 thousand hectares of forest owned. I will repeat that the average size of private forests in the Republic of Croatia is between 0.9 and 1.2 hectares. This means that we have nearly 700 thousand forest owners with whom 29 employees of the Forest Advisory Service should work. We are interested in who are licensed performers who receive this public authority through the advisory service that will be the procedure for their engagement. I also asked this same question when discussing amendments to the Law on the Agricultural Advisory Service. I didn't get the answer to the question then. Is there a new monopoly here? I will repeat, the annual level in forest forest owners towards the forest-economic base of the region of Croatia from 2006 to 2015 is about 750 thousand cubic metres of wood varieties from private forests. These licensed persons will identify, measure and mark 600 thousand cc's of the net mass of wood varieties from private forests. They should also issue shipments for approximately 30,000 tractor trucks on the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. In the assessment of the situation and the basic issues covered by this law, the Proposer states that this is precisely the kind of business that would prevent licensed persons from intervening Croatian forests to perform these works in the forests of forest owners so that the Croatian Chamber of Forest Engineers and Wood Technology would carry out the task for which it was established. By viewing the data on the chamber's web portal under companies that are licensed for the identification of trees from 10, 20, 30 and 100 thousand cubic gross metres I found 20 licensed companies in the territory of Croatia. It is interesting how some of these companies master large forest areas such as "Sun Forests", lords with cca 500 thousand hectares, and are licensed to produce trees up to 100,000 cubic metres of gross mass. The question arises whether this is not actually a favor for larger private forest owners who are also licensed to perform forest work. In a similar way, it is as if the person authorised to carry out the technical examination of the vehicle itself carried out a technical examination on his own personal vehicle. There are, of course, mechanisms here to control these operations. But I'm afraid it could cross into the gray zone of private forest management. I would ask the Minister whether the Croatian forests certified for these jobs will also continue to perform forest work in the woods of forest owners? If the answer is positive, I do not understand why the assessment of the situation speaks of avoiding the intervention of Croatian forests d.o.o. Furthermore, the proposal states that quality planning in forestry will be carried out through the national inventory of forest resources, leaving the minister 6 months to draw up guidelines on which this national inventory will be carried out. We would like to know the deadlines, the adoption of strategic documents of the National Strategy for Forestry and Wood Technology, the National Programme for Forestry and the National Programme of the Wood Industry, because the bill which was before us did not define them. Also, when we talk about forests, of course the wood industry which is connected because the wood industry cannot operate without Croatian forests then I would say that the wood processing industry makes up 13% of the processing industry of Croatia with an 8% share of the total Croatian exports and is one of the few sectors that has recorded the export surplus in the last few years. But without a good strategy to develop significant investments in the distribution and adaptation of the legislation I was talking about, we cannot expect to meet the huge potential of the sector. In the last ten years, the wood industry has recorded an economic rebirth, a strong pace of export production, with the strengthening of the role of finalists and a positive balance at the external trade level. The external trade surplus of the wood industry has doubled in the last five years and was 384 million in 12 years and increased five times compared to ten years ago. Of course, these are indicators that are just telling us that all of this that I've been talking about, we need to build up and control it so that this processing part of the wood industry works much better, and as we can see, and I've prepared it here on purpose, let's see when we give the wood industry, first of all, the multi-annual contracts that we've made, the wood industry is going to return several times more to the wood industry and it's invested. When we talk about finalists who are also tied to this law and the forest, furniture production is a $128 million deficit that was in 2008 and in five years it turned into a $20 million surplus. When we talk about the wood industry, then an import component that is very important in the production of massive but other wood furniture makes only 5% while in the production of other furniture, wallpapered, metal, flat has a component of up to 80%. A third of all employees of the RS processing industry are employed in the wood industry. This economic branch has all the characteristics of a small economy, so out of 1387 registered companies, 1336 are small and 96.3%, it is just another indicator that small companies in the wood industry that are dependent on Croatian forests today form one cornerstone of the development of wood industry at the level of the Republic of Croatia and I am sure that such a policy but rather politics primarily management and wood mass according to such companies is therefore arranged one policy will today, tomorrow certainly give even better results. This is visible through all possible analyses and measures of industrial policy which would focus on a new investment cycle in the short term. The wood industry could achieve $1.5 billion exports and increase employment to 30,000 since we know that already today in the wood industry there are some 20 or over 20,000 people in the wood production industry. What is worrying after this is now my presentation where in the first reading I wanted the word of my exposure that they must be supported and that we doubt that these 29 people when we talk about private forests will be able to do their jobs. By doing so, we probably won't be able to deliver the quantities we planned. We also need to look back here on the budget rebalancing for the Ministry of Agriculture, or for the wood industry where we, as strategic years and the former government and this present government, supported the wood industry, where we promised each year that we would increase these amounts year after year because, as I said, if we give one kuna, three kunas return. This year we predicted ministers, first said 70 million, so it's going to be 50 million and now in the rebalancing of 0 kuna. It is for the wood industry death, so for the branch that I have said and that we know it and that we know it supported so that we can find money anywhere in the industry that employs not highly educated workforce today but precisely those people of medium-sized expertise who make up mass on the labour market and who can at any moment be employed by the state to encourage wood industry with this kind of financial support, today Croatia would not have so many unemployed, but would already recognise the wood industry and the branch that, in a short period of time, as I have said here, can grow to $1.5 billion from the current $900 million to 1.5 billion and employ the largest number of people but in any other sector. I'm not going back a few years or better to say than 90 years of how much money we've lost in shipbuilding, I'm not going to mention those companies that haven't worked and they've been getting personal income for a variety of reasons, and the wood industry is always the one that the spear has been broken on, and we see that in a short period of time we can make a boom in the wood industry, but just now we don't recognize what we promised in the budget, so we take in this rebalancing process and therefore another policy that doesn't guarantee that we'll make progress in the wood industry exactly the one we planned, and in particular we don't guarantee that the wood industry will hire, and as we see 387 thousand people are at the Employment Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74469	Hello, Ronko, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74470	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I've been listening to, and I can only say that I agree with the MP that his exposure was really disturbing. I won't mention everything he said there, but it all comes down to the Law on the Forests. And I must say that with the spatial plans that need to go through both public debate and reconciliation and adoption, it is certainly not going to devastate Croatian forests with programmed and supervised construction. On the contrary, as a natural wealth, they will be in an even better position for all Croatian citizens. Croatian forests, for example, were devastated in last month's ice disaster in Gorski Kotar. You have devastated them in Slavonia, I am surprised, perhaps I should not be surprised, that they have just chosen you to elaborate a position on Croatian forests or to elaborate the HDZ attitude of the forest, because you are with your companies for Croatian forests other kinds of natural disasters with your head and chin. And those basic disasters that are defined or better said, which was done not by nature but by means of former and present flocks, and you know it in such perverse ways that our Duje Marosović could not think of it either.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74471	Thank you. Reply to the replica Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74472	And you'd better not have time because your rhetoric is so dirty and rude and recognizable in Požega-Slavon County that when you open your mouth you start lying like you're lying now. And the company you all mention had 230 employees and still today 140 employees. But your lunches and your lies that people have listened to and you've threatened all possible measures, and nothing you've done has ever been able to see that you're simply saying in every sentence a lie. In today's time when hundreds of thousands of people, millions of people lost their jobs in the world in the Republic of Croatia, and this is also known to the minister where I have elaborated all the problems concerning both the logs and the work in the wood industry, and it is presented to him and he knows how and how and why certain problems have arisen. Today, many companies have disappeared, the rest are both employees and all possible suppliers, but the company you mention has fulfilled all its obligations to the employees, according to suppliers, and of course not to the Croatian forests. But in today’s time when the problem and the companies were closing overnight, I would like to see you, Mr. Ronko, so why didn’t you in your 60 ’ s get involved in any kind of production when you’re so smart and when you know how to dispose and explain it, but you simply lived on a country’s manger all the time and never got involved in private business because you love this kind of smartness and people simply belittled. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74473	Thank you. Comrade Lucic, you first spent the time scheduled to respond to the replica. I didn't mean to interrupt you, but it's inappropriate the way you lied because my colleague Ronko didn't insult you in any way the way you did. ... Excuse me, let me say it first, and then you will. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're saying he's lying, and behind that, you're saying you haven't fulfilled any obligations. So he's not lying. Sit down. You don't have a word. You didn't get the word. Please sit down because you didn't get the word. I won't give you a warning, but sit down. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74474	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, the esteemed representative violated Article 238. The Rules of Procedure and not to mention I'll say at almost all points. He insulted his fellow MPs, disrespected his fellow MPs, but above all, he did not know that he was allowed to speak only and only when he asked the chairman and received his word. Comrade Lucic, you come from a party that stole this country and here you dare tell someone to lie. Your top officials said they never lie and then, laughing at the entire Croatian people, told only sometimes they don't tell the truth. How can you not be ashamed?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74475	A fellow coat of arms I reacted and there was no need to hurt the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, a colleague, Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74476	I thank the esteemed vice president, to return to the subject. Honorable ministers with assistants, colleagues and fellow MPs. We at the HDSSB Club think that making a new law would be a better and more acceptable solution. And for two very simple reasons. The first is that the original law has 93 articles and even 48 articles have been amended. And the second reason is that this law, i.e. amendments to the law, is passed by emergency procedure, by emergency procedure. Therefore, it did not go through the usual procedure of first and second reading in the Croatian Parliament under the exception of the ministry's representatives that it was only a law that would allow the legalisation of 30 camps located in the Croatian Adriatic, or Croatian coast. However, here it is visible that other articles have experienced significant changes, especially as regards golf courses. However, in order not to be all bad and black, there is this bill and its own good side. It is such a good decision, i.e. an amendment to the article which prescribes who manages forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, and Article 17 of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013, that certain forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia may continue to be managed by legal persons with the status of a public institution of which the founder of the Republic of Croatia and their scientific and teaching components which are established by the activities and scientific research work are carried out in the field of forestry. We think this decision is good, this article. It is also determined that the sale of wood varieties produced by persons who are legally authorised to manage as exceptions is carried out by public competition carried out by the company of the Croatian Forests because it is intended to legally regulate that any further sale of wood varieties after the first purchase for the purpose of fulfilling the exception for science and teaching goes through a person legally authorised for the management of forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, what is positive is amended in Article 19, which prescribes national forestry strategies and wood industry and the National Foresting Programme and the National Wood Industry Programme. In view of the fact that the National Strategy for Forestry and Wood Industry is a fundamental document which, with the National Programme of Forestry, the Law on Forests and the National Programme of the Wood Industry, constitutes a framework for the national policy of forestry and wood industry, which decides that these strategies are prescribed by the Minister, of course and in line with the other members of the Ministry, not only in the Ministry of Agriculture. But the only thing that doesn't say here is that the deadlines for these national strategies are not defined. I think it is extremely important that these national strategies are adopted more urgently. So here in this law you don't mention, you don't mention the deadlines for these strategies. In addition, Article 29 of which the Ministry approves forest-economic plans and their renewal or revision by stating who is all authorised to submit a proposal for renewal and revision shall be amended. So the Trade Society of the Croatian Forests, a legal person with the status of a public institution whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and an advisory service. Article 25 is amended in such a way as to prescribe that the Ministry by means of an act approving the forest-economic plan is declaring a particular forest a protected forest or a special purpose forest which also changes the purpose of a particular forest. It is further required that the Ministry be given a special purpose to obtain the opinion of the company in the process of declaring the forest owned by the Republic of Croatia. And when forest owners are declared protected or forest by special purpose, the ministry is obliged to obtain the consent of forest owners with measures limiting their rights to the forest. In Article 28, the words of the hive, the maquis, the shears, and the sheaths are deleted. And that article, i.e. point 10, is about the reconstruction and conversion of forests and hives, scissors, chicars and locusts. So if these terms are deleted does this mean that these areas will fall out of the forest area? If that's the case, then the private owners will probably be able to use it better. It is also prescribed that a spatial plan relating to forests or forest land is adopted with the ministry's preliminary opinion. The exception of paragraph 1 provides that a spatial plan planning to extend the construction area to forests and forest land can only be adopted with a explicitly positive opinion from the ministry. The issue and further jurisdiction of the forest and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, which covers the building particle for the law of the building and the jurisdiction to establish specific conditions in the process of issuing a local permit, including the construction of buildings on forest and forest land, and the construction of buildings within a belt of up to 50 metres from the edge of the forest. Furthermore, Article 51 of the applicable law is amended in such a way as to introduce a completely new process of detachment of forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia from the forest-economic area of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the possibility of building golf courses and campsites that the spatial plan provides for in the forest and forest land, with the same area not being included in the construction area, remains in the forest-economic area of the Republic of Croatia and the purpose is achieved by establishing the right of construction. Now, it's very important here to note that this is exactly what went into changing this law for building a golf course. As we have already heard, there are 30 illegal, or illegal camps in Croatia, they occupy an area of about 1,000 hectares. And the purpose of this law is to legalize them and we absolutely agree here. But what we can't support is building a golf course because we think there's going to be an abuse of areas covered under the woods. Imagine one Rab or Cres which is covered in forests and we know that most large particles are owned by Croatian forests. So these areas are up the coast. If we're going to build the golf course that we can read here, one golf course of 27 holes takes up 150 acres of land. And the whole complex takes 350 acres. What about the other 200 acres, what's going to be on that 200 acres? Following facilities, hotels, wellness, apartments. Along the coast owned by the Republic of Croatia. So, private investors, big private investors, we allow them to simply create a suite of our coast through the construction of golf course, and I'm afraid there's a big problem with this law, and that's why it would be a good idea to think one more time, not to go into the adoption of a law like this, but to approach the making of a whole new law. Furthermore, what we can say positively and assess as positive is that the advisory service is re-established as an independent body which for forests, forest owners and forest owners performs certain tasks. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Forest laws prescribe jurisdiction, activity and give public authority to the advisory service. It's also these amendments to the law positively. But I need to look back at two basic problems. So, we haven't set a deadline for the adoption of the National Strategy for Forestry and we allow large capital of the entrance, practically on our preserved, neat shore. Now, I'm wondering if this kind of bill is the predecessor to maybe expropriating the future of national parks. In the future, legal solutions may allow national parks to be excluded and worked on golf courses and hotels, apartments. As far as the National Strategy for Forestry itself, especially the wood industry, wood technology, I think it must be brought in as soon as possible because in the course of the day we heard that 47% of the land surfaces are under the woods, we heard what our wood potential is. But what is sad, is that we are also witnesses when trucks practically export logs from the Republic of Croatia by driving them to Italy, Hungary, to use Hungarian power plants, i.e. energy and heat to use our wood potential for their practical energy production. So what we have to work on is the development of the final product. Croatia has certain potential for the production of the final product, we have great experience, we have witnessed and virtually giants from Slavonia, Gaj, the wood industry that used to employ 3500 people before the war, they have also done wooden constructions for the halls, we have exported furniture to Kuwait and Egypt, they have equipped hotels on the Adriatic coast. Today, there are no more cranes or rails left in that production because they are sold into old iron. For these reasons, the HDSSB club cannot support this bill or will not, and I suggest that the minister go into the making of a whole new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74477	Franjo Lucic, you've had a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I really haven't seen you, so say it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74478	Article 238 has been injured. A fellow coat of arms was saying something that wasn't really the same... as his colleague Ronko. In fact, in my debate, I really debated well-intentioned and referred to certain suggestions, at the same time not wanting to hurt anyone, and Ronko was the one who only volunteered to offend, and you only then replaced him with your debate where you essentially didn't say anything and I don't need any of your lessons because I really know what and when I should talk. So you answered without any need.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74479	And I'm telling you there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure because I told my colleagues that he was not injured by the Rules of Procedure. Now we'll move on to replicas. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74480	Thank you very much. Comrade Chesek, you've elaborated well, very briefly but very clearly what the core of this law actually consists of. What we had here here in 2008 was a struggle in the Parliament and advocating with the former prime minister, so later the Constitutional Court abolished the Golf Law, now actually those opponents who were then become golfers and at the expense of forests and forest surfaces. It's very interesting, and those who were then for them are opponents of this, so it's a very paradoxical situation. In fact, there is an interesting sentence in the assessment of the situation and you have talked about it, so this way of legal arrangement, building golf courses and camps in the forest and forest land, so in the forest and forest land at the moment is an ideal model because it provides protection of forests and forest land. How can it be, is that at all, I don't know how it's written and who wrote it, I hope it's not the minister himself, but how the construction of the golf course can ensure the protection of forests and forest land. Do we know what the forest looks like, especially Slavonic, although they say it's going to be too heavy on the sea side of this golf course, but it might be at our camp and what golf course. And do we know what a flat, grassy golf course looks like, with no one or with a few rare trees, and then it can be written that it provides protection for the forest. No, but the deforestation of the forest was secured. That's how it was supposed to be written. I don't see anyone else. So the fact that it will remain owned by the Croatian forests that land has nothing to do with it. It's a changed environment, it's just a changed environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74481	Thank you very much. Replication response, Igor Czech.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74482	Thank you. Comrade Grubisic, you were talking about the Golf Act during Sanader's government and in this law and what are the objections when someone is in power and when someone is in opposition. Well, we witnessed a month ago when we discussed reducing pensions to Croatian defenders as much as anyone was hearty, someone opposed. While HDZ's government was dropping pensions to Croatian defenders, they defended it that defenders were willing to submit a pension reduction sacrifice to help the troubled state. Today, when the SDP lowers or reduces pensions to Croatian defenders, then HDZ says there is another blow to Croatian defenders and so on. There's a lot of cases like that. When you were talking about protection I really don't see how you can get to the protection of such forest land, it remains owned by the Republic of Croatia. That he stays, naked as you say, hopped up, with a built golf course and we give in concessions for 99 years. It is all the protection that this land will receive about the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74483	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74484	Thank you. A fellow Czech, so you touched one project probably thinking about a golf project in Dubrovnik where you mentioned 300 ha because I don't know about any other project that has 300 ha and you said a playground of 27 holes. There's no professional golf course is with 18 holes, and the exercise area is with 9. The gym you have here at the entrance to Zagreb and of course it is not too attractive and there is not much tourists etc. And I think the main problem is that it's increasingly obvious that golf projects are exclusively a real-estate business, that it's not to encourage the development of golf as a sport in any way but exclusively a real-estate business used as a fig leaf. So, this golf project, the golf talks that we're hearing here today from the same ones that opposed golf a few years ago, etc. But it came out in the meantime that it was real estate business. The golf course should, in fact, build cities, municipalities to encourage people to play sports, etc. There are disagreements about the fact that when it comes to golf courses that certain chemicals are used, etc. etc. Talk about and need maximum protection of the environment. And if there's an interest in the tourism sector, then why this same tourism sector that exists, let's say here in Dubrovnik has a mass of hotels. Why don't they team up and build together with the city of Dubrovnik, expand offers and build a public golf course like in Los Angeles there's a public golf course between buildings and there's no other real estate around. They have apartments, houses, etc. But it has nothing to do with golf. Golf is a simple sport that people play for their pleasure, and here is a golf fig leaf for real estate, for real estate businesses. And then, today, I even think someone was saying I think colleague Cain was saying that behind this project, behind this golf course, there was a Motovun forest. So we can call This law lex Motovun forest. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74485	Thank you. Replication response, Igor Czech.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74486	Thank you. I agree, I agree absolutely with you, and I'm sorry, I'm not a golfer, so I don't know how many standard playgrounds there are. But what I wanted to point out in my debate was exactly that ratio of the size of the golf course and the size of the entire complex. So if the playground is 100 ha and the complex is another 200 ha, then it is absolutely visible that it is a golf course really a fig leaf, that it is still some sort of apartmentization of the building of the hotel etc. and all the other contents. Golf course will be there by the way, by the way. So the majority of hectares occupy content that includes more than just a golf course. 200 acres, one hectare has 10,000 m2. Well, that's a huge area. Can you imagine the many hotels and apartments on that surface? I'm interested in seeing a projection that the Croatian coast, this is about the coast, because nobody in Slavonia is going to build a golf course, it's not going to come true from a cold beer song that Slavonia is going to become a golf course. It won't be safe, but it'll run golf courses on the coast, in attractive locations, in the woods.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74487	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74488	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Czech, you talked about camps and golf courses, but you also mentioned the islands of Rab and Cres. We don't need a golf course on Rab. We have only a stoner, we have forests, but only the other more or less a stoner for two reasons. The first is that one golf course consumes water almost as much as 8,000, a settlement for 8,000 inhabitants. There are 9 and a half thousand of us and we have water problems in the summer, we don't have enough and we don't have enough. So the golf course would destroy us. And secondly, we think and develop tourism always in collaboration with state institutions. And for 20 years we resisted the attacks of everyone on one hotel house, on the spine of the island economy, the hotel company Imperial. These days, the government has opened a tender for the collection of offers for the sale of the company, which has 56% of the state's shares and 44% owned by small shareholders. They don't want the stockholders, even though they have the laws they've passed. They want to sell it for 100 million kuna. It is two large hotels, two hotel settlements with 2000 accommodation units, two camps with 4 and a half thousand accommodation units for 100 million kuna or for 15 million euros. It is the spine of the Croatian economy. And the one who buys it for 100m euros will return it in three years of business in a way that will fire 140 or 150 permanent employees. That's 15 million already. These years we have a profit of 10 million kuna for them even though we own the state. We pay off everything neatly, build and develop content neatly. All the facilities were raised to three, four stars, and the state felt the need to sell it to someone now for a hundred million kunas. So who's normal here? That's why it hasn't come out yet, but as of today, the next year, it's going to be developing. Because we don't want Halud's or the Sun's Hvar, or all the failed privatisations of tourist companies. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74489	Thank you very much. Replication response, Igor Czech.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74490	Thank you. Fellow Boris, this is another of the many sad stories of Croatian privatisation as it was conducted and implemented. However, I did not directly mention Rab and your water problems. But there's a real danger of a major venture of capital. When big capital comes very rarely who can remain immune to it. So, and we're talking about Croatia as some top tourist destination with decorated beaches, with an orderly coast, I'm afraid with such laws we could just lose it and we're not going to be any top tourist destination but a concreteized Dalmatian coast.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74491	Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74492	Thank you, Madam President. Comrade Czech, when you mentioned the Golf Act or golf courses and tied it clearly to the provisions of this law, then I must tell you that this law is based on the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction against which we were in the HDZ Club and then were. And it is that this law actually found that golf courses and camps can be built in an outside construction area. And now this minister and the government with this law have said that in the woods, too. So, so far, before the adoption of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, this situation could not have happened, as this law has now allowed, which is practically based on the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which we adopted somewhere, seems to me at the end of November. So, this Law said that it could be in the woods, and by very simple procedure, by a very simple procedure, by which huge areas of forest and forest land in the Republic of Croatia can, I say, be given in a very simple procedure to use or give the right to build an interested entrepreneur. So this Law is in this way quite one, a given act for possible corruption and the submission of interest groups that through this law can come into possession of the most valuable forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia to what you have even said might be in some other step, and these are a few issues of national parks and nature parks. So here I agree with you that this is when you look, when you speak these laws are developing an almost logical sequence.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74493	The answer to the replica Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74494	Yeah, I'll be very brief. So all the laws of this government are very kindly to large capital and unfortunately they protect neither the rights of workers nor the rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74495	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives Vice-President Milorad Batinic. Here you go, colette.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74496	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ministers with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, we are discussing amendments and additions to the Law on Forests which, from the past few hours of debate, was not entirely possible to read and hear, but the HNS Club will support these amendments and additions to the Law and, of course, support this proposal that the minister himself has made and for the sake of the great public interest, but I would say primarily for the sake of perhaps not understanding certain dilemmas which, with these amendments, point out that it is good to go in two readings. I am also pleased with the same thing as a forester and as a parliamentary representative what the minister announced was that in the phase of making a brand new forest law, because here some 20 years ago, and 15, and 10, when I was in practice, we claimed that the law was too general, that this forest law should be reduced in some way because a series of legal provisions can be defined by sublaws. The law would not lose its contents, would not lose that part of the protection of the forest in terms of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but here we will hope that, as the minister said, there will be a great public debate, so there will be opportunities for us to manifest ourselves in this work. In HNS, first of all of these changes, we read as harmonising with certain legislative proposals that this House adopted last year and this year, meaning the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, and what is extremely important for the forestry profession, it is the Law on Advisory Service. I don't think I missed anything. In fact, when it comes to camps, when it comes to golf courses, the fact is and I admit publicly that I don't know too much about golf. However, not only here from the debate today and which we stand in HNS tourism as a strategic branch is extremely important and this is now ultimately an opportunity to have a large number of camps according to the statistics of Croatian forests somewhere around 38 camps which are now practically conditional on being legalized and working somewhere around 480 hectares owned by Croatia or forests and forest lands under which camps are located. We also consider the positive wording of the Interpletion of the Law on the Advisory Service to be that forest segment covering the advisory service as an activity we consider good. We were not for when 2010 were forest advisory forest law removed as an institution, transferred to Croatian forests, and I believe that this is the beginning of what was then started and in 2000 I would dare to show up in 2003 when certain colleagues now in the Croatian forests and my smallness have now launched an initiative and start taking care of the rest of the ministry to take care of forests in private ownership after a long-standing negligent or unsatisfactory start taking care of private forests far more quality than before. What I particularly point out to the same important, controversial, years-long disputed OkFŠ general useful functions of forests that are a reduction in financial, means a disbursement of the economy, that they will be paid into a special account. For years, what had been a dilemma, which was a doubt, was a burden and a partial question of perhaps morality, use, and use of those funds. What I would like to say was, I had experience and as an employee in the forest, the forest manager and that we used the common useful functions of the forest not only in the coastal area but also in the continental part. And that it was spent extremely rationally. There may have been certain negativity somewhere, but I don't think they've been spent on what they shouldn't have. Perhaps more should have been used for demining, perhaps more needed to prevent fires from the coastal area, but let's let go of history and learn from what we have done if we have failed to do so now in the future. What I find particularly important, which so far has not been the case, is to include it in the legal proposal to adopt a national strategy for forestry and wood industry. Namely, I heard in some discussions, not so prominent but the letter to the public, says we're going back to some '60s, in the 1970s when organizational and forestry and the wood industry were practically connected by some kind of model or economic code of the laws of merged vessels, yes. But this will not happen with this national strategy or any other legal solution. In fact, I would like to support this part of my colleague Lucic's debate, which highlighted the importance of the wood industry, the merger of wood industry and forestry, mostly as a raw material base which the Republic of Croatia has and the potential that can contribute through but only through a high level of finalisation to the development of the Republic of Croatia, especially in GDP growth. What I would like to mention from the debate may be, and it is too little time to look back at all the articles of the law, namely golf courses I would just like to mention the information, I believe you know but I think it is important, so for golf courses have been set up somewhere around 315 hectares from the forest-economic area for the construction of the golf course in the previous years. Now according to this bill of law the terrain, the camps, future golf courses go to the woods for special purposes. In fact, the article of the law which defines management programmes also takes care of the management of forests of special purpose and is difficult to expect from the law, it is seen from the programme how, in which way and even the answer to questions about what will happen if it fails, that golf course will fail and things will be defined in one part of the specific purpose forest management programme. Is that the most subtle formulation? However, as I was quoted in the replica of my colleague, Plesi, article 3 which speaks of the richness of the forest, generally useful forest functions, says in one paragraph the provision of space for rest and recreation. Well, we can trick camps, golf maybe, but there's also sports involved. Why do I find it important that it is not detached from the forest economic base? It's right from this data as far as it's isolated. And what was said I could, I would not, I disagree with what counterpart Matušić said was simple because this law gives the possibility to go to the part of the forest surface if it goes through a complete procedure, which is a few levels of control from spatial planning documentation, we know where it starts from local level, compliance with the county and state spatial plan when it comes to the forest management programme of special purpose, which is the next control and of course investment, there is the ministry and the expert team of people who will evaluate the beginning of the spatial plan and that the programme which manages the forest-specific purposes. My colleagues and colleagues believe me from the profession alone, for many years of experience I know very well, the foresters have in practice forestry is that every year a forest inspection comes to the forest. Every year as we used to say it, combing the basics, the management program, whether we needed a review and a series of other things. Not to say from a surface statement defined by management programs, etc. which very clearly defines where, what and how it is owned. As for certain articles, I mentioned a national strategy and it is good that it is brought together. The fact is that it is a good thing that a whole new law will go, primarily what I consider to be a long-term experience and in practice that it will be necessary, automation should also be done through a certain, new, completely new law, through these changes is a little too late, but it would be counterproductive in view of harmonisation, it will have to be a certain sublegal act which, in part of the Regulation on forest regulation, which is a key fundamental regulation of forest management. So it's hard to predict everything that's been here to the most extent of the debate with the law itself. And this is how colleagues and colleagues are too fat. You're colleagues of the twilight mentioned by Urbar Maria Teresa, we called it the first forest law, it was a form twice as much as this one. He regulated the entire problem of forestry and didn't fuck around, nothing was missing. Today, we have a bulky document, too engrossed. As far as the advisory service itself is concerned, I also said that I consider it positive. There were certain dilemmas who would perform, who were licensed persons. I understand there may be doubt, but I don't think we should question the credibility of the license issued by the Forest Chamber. You don't have to doubt that. It's simply our colleagues, my colleagues, graduate forestry engineers, and you can't get a license just like that. They will work marking trees for cutting in private forests, they will issue accompanying documents, they will conduct together with supervision, with cooperation with the advisory service, will conduct the management of private forests in the part where the private forest owner requests. Management programs bring in for a period of 10 years, and it doesn't take every year, this is a purely practical question that can't be written in law or in the light of the law, once in 10 years as a forester, I go out into your private forest, mark what your program says, and I don't need to come here anymore, except to issue you the accompanying document, except for the breakdowns, the calamities, similar to what happened in Gorski Kotar, then it's necessary to go, that's what. sanitary cuttings. Why go, why 30? Well, maybe it won't be enough, but practice will show whether it's 30 or maybe another 5 or that 30 is too much. Labour markets don't need to be afraid. As I was saying at the outset, the HNS Club is going to support this proposal for everything I've said. I'm glad it goes in two readings, and when there's a second reading then I'm going to go with certain concrete remarks that I think would be okay, which can be corrected at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74497	Thank you. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74498	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Vice President, when you mention golf and this law, then this law in that part brings only two news, it's the first news, so with this law we say golf can be planned with a spatial plan in the forest and forest land. The other thing is, he still stays in the woods, that space still remains part of the forest economic area or base, whatever you want. The third thing is, for that golf, there's no need to establish public interest anymore. Even looking at it that way I disagree with one part of those provisions, golf is less controversial to me, I think that you as a forest manager and a forest manager... when you said it earlier, you don't ask how to cross those provisions of the law that speak for other purposes because the ministry is trying this law, or the government says that the golf course will be a couple of special purposes. But what is controversial, due to the foresters, primarily facts and even for the guards, if you want to talk that way because the fact that this law allows, relying on the Law on spatial arrangement, that any purpose that we cite is more unacceptable to develop... objects in forests, this law allows. This is what is unacceptable to me and that this land which is for such purposes, for buildings any purpose that can then, if owned by the Republic of Croatia without establishing public interest, sell to private investors. That's what this law is about, and it's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74499	Replica response, Vice President Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74500	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Namely, my colleague Bačić, I could answer more specifically if I knew what you meant by other purposes. ... Cementara, so look first of all you know very well, for such investments there is a need to study, to make environmental impact studies, you know very well, regardless of what you can write in the Law on the Forests. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I said in the debate, we all like to discuss everything and the fact is that we all love each other, we all know everything about the forest, if that's the case, then we shouldn't have school or college or institute. But it's also not wrong to interpret certain intentions, intensities of the laws that they are. So you can't, there are certain other laws that shouldn't be written here. I don't know, the article and the one that's talking about it and all that, but he's got to appeal to that construction law, blah blah blah, etc. Well, I mean, that's why I'm saying too much. We have to sort of reduce the scope of that law, sublegal acts are yours, but that's not going to happen. First of all, spatial plans start from units of local self-government, primarily from forest managers, from those domestic foresters that work, when we talk about both the state forest and when we talk about private-owned forests. My colleague, may I assure you, but I assure you that such things will not happen. There's just no foothold, and no local self-government units are gonna let anything like that happen. I mean, I don't know where I'm concerned, maybe after that folk thing that scares me when something bites me, and then the little one that bites me scares me, but I can't see at all, there's nowhere to read that kind of interpretation you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74501	Young Marelić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74502	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Batinić, you spoke, and this law itself shows that we must have plans, spatial plans if we want to do golf courses or others in certain areas, I mean camps and such things. But the problem is another goal here is that these laws, amendments and additions to the law regulates the issue that regulates the deforestation of forests or forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia in the forest area as a land where services can be established to raise years-old deposits. And so far experience when individuals in the Croatian forests and on the proposal of natural or legal persons, individuals have been targeted in certain areas where they have received those areas from areas along the edge of the settlement or tourist zone, and forests that have abused them, especially when we know that... locals or local cooperatives with responsibility are not registered for such jobs. And those cooperatives that had 100 cars today, 20 people employed, 200 cooperatives were getting jobs, that is, land of a particular company, cooperatives that only had the role of founders. I don't think that's acceptable. I also suggest that it would be good for forest representatives and representatives of local self-government to jointly determine where parcels or areas can be set aside for long-term plantings because it is the capital that would be significant, since it cannot go into spatial plans means that this could be done in such a way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74503	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Vice President Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74504	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague, Marelić, can agree with you in part. There's always a possibility if someone wants to abuse the law, so we're probably in a way, I'm not going to tell the specialists, but certain circles have specialized maybe for this gray zone. But I always try to look positively at something and it is a positive rise in agricultural pests, but not in the way that it was practice I have certain knowledge, especially as regards raising olive groves. Now, if that was where the olive groves were raised, that would be fine. However, it went with the goal of returning a little in 2005 I think that article 53 of the law was passed, which now feels it is not necessary at all because it is unnecessary because it is non-woody, that it cannot be reused on fire if I do not know the chicare, the lollipop, the maquis, the garrison, or even the forest that can not change the culture over the next five years. Forest land must be a forest means it's a topic that we don't need to talk about. But I understand the authorities at the time and then the ministry why it brought it in because there was a frequency of fires, first they burned the surface, then they asked for a re-purpose, and then the re-use was approved. I might agree with the aim of speculation. However, significant funds are invested in olive groves from the Ministry of Agriculture and then the choice of an olive variety is made or I don't know any other bony fruit that simply died from the pomegranate. And then there was a gaff waiting like he couldn't make it, and then we were through building land, etc., etc. Until then, they knew each other and made fire marks, a miracle, there was no need, so there was a lot of work going on. Therefore, fellow Marelic's office, I agree with that, but I did not read in this law that it could be such a possibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74505	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74506	Thank you. I'm surprised you can't see that this law is a fig leaf for real estate business because it's a scratch so far. If there were doubts a few years ago, then they're gone today. On golf courses today, no suites. I'll only mention this golf course down at 250 villas each area of at least 1000 square meters. Do you know what that means? You're saying you'll be taking care of these areas as a special purpose forest. Which forest when there's no forest, there's no forest. Why do we call it a tree-free forest? Is there anything called a forest if there are no trees? I don't even know if it can be called a forest. Then what do you think is a forest? A forest of special purposes that doesn't have any trees and has a few hundred villas. Another thing when this law connects to the Strategic Investments Act is that only then will it come out with verticals that ensure that individual powerful people get to the best locations where the forests are to get the opportunity to build something. Only then will it come to light when these two laws are joined together because these two laws will clearly come together. It's obviously the intensity of making these amendments to the law, obviously that's what it's all about. For the camps he could still agree with, of course the camp implies he'll have some trees of the forest because he won't attract anyone. Who'll be drawn to an adventure camp if there's no arrangements, if there's no woods, if there's no shade, etc. etc.? But this golf thing is pretty clear it's real estate business. You will see from practice very quickly, from practice you will see about what real estate business you are working on. I'm sorry, you said in the introduction that you don't know what golf is but how...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74507	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Vice President Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74508	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Namely fellow Matušić, whether it's a fig leaf or not I wouldn't think that way. And when your government passed the laws, I commended Article 53. 2005 means that there was a need to prevent something. So I'm trying to read positively. I really didn't see anything here that would be.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74509	Listen to the answer you had a replica, listen to the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74510	Namely, you have not heard when I am here I will now answer you to part of the replica when you talk about the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia namely Article 16 at the disposal of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia means including forests, forest land, agricultural land, etc. for the implementation of the strategic project, the Government shall have at its disposal, in accordance with the local authorisation or other act. It means keywords, and we know very well about strategic projects from spatial plans and everything I've been saying in the debate. So several filters, several levels of control. Simply, of course, if someone has an intention but I’m not sure that he can succeed in his wrong intention or in a bad intention to play the law. Apartmentization and so on, look, the fact is that capital has its logic independently from which level, from which it comes, is our domicile, is it from outside and he goes where he thinks his investment will pay off. However, the Construction Act, I mentioned it, why? So you have to get if you're building for certain facilities a useful permit. Based on which you will receive a useful permit for the cottage, for apartments etc., etc.. Let's not put a positive law in the wrong context.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74511	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74512	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Indeed, since I was in this House, there have been often such legal proposals on forests and others. And I really always appreciate the profession. And I would never, not against my profession or my other profession, and I would not say they don't know what they're doing. You said that this code that I mentioned back in Mary Teresa's day was very thin, is, everything that is so transparent and clear and when you know what you want, then usually it doesn't take a lot of words, should be concrete and summed up. However, in this, this is an esteemed colleague, Vice President, I've already said eight amendments. So when we read this bill now, only if we talk about it, then no one else will be able to do it alive because it's practically all changed. And that is why we are also talking here so that it would be very good if, as promised in 2013, that the law, the new forest law, or forestry, would come, that we had this law ahead of us. Because it's really a top-notch forest profession in Croatia, I've been saying it since 2010 since I've been in this House. Because if it weren't for science and every other forest profession, we wouldn't be dealing with this topic at all today, because we shouldn't be getting into any kind of protection or forest or anything. And you're just looking at the example of these olive groves, which is why we're warning here on this golf course. You said yourself that olives were made and olives were planted and then something else started to work. That can happen here, of course. And that's why 2011 the government just abolished the golf law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74513	Thank you very much. Replication response, Vice President Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74514	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs. twilight, I mean, yes, I did, and I mentioned that the law is too far-fetched but not that it's not understood. Understandable is one part of the law's articles, they are understandable professions. To anyone who's a layman, they may not be understandable. Why? Because, because I'm saying that it should be reduced both by the number of articles and by the text part content because this law through these huge changes and additions, I agree with the new law here and I commend what the minister says, simply that's the attitude of the profession and me personally that we should go to the new law, to reduce not only the number of articles but also the content. And most of the content that's described here is sublegal acts. So the rules that define that level. So the law of this existing with great changes and additions, positive intensities of the government's intention to sort of unite. It has the contents of sublegal regulation and the law itself. So you need to go to a new law, you need to edit it, you need to simplify it understandably. And for the foresters, sublegal acts that are operational are for the profession. The part where you said that, I say, it's more, it was a picturesque little book, it was different from that first law, and so on, but it contained it. Since then, however, the profession has reached a far higher level, and there has been a need for it to be a little more extensive but not so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74515	On behalf of the promoter, Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74516	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. And I do use very rarely, but I will use the opportunity to get involved in this debate and I have waited for all the esteemed clubs to give an opinion and listen very carefully to the debate, especially thanks to the respected Vice President Batinić, who very professionally elaborated most of the changes we wanted to make with this law. Once again, I will point out the most important thing that we are not telling and which we are constantly transferring to golf that the forests are the national wealth of the Republic of Croatia, which together as well as agricultural land and water are not the subject of sales. With these amendments and additions to the law, we give the possibility of building rights, not ownership rights as it has been so far. Dear fellow Lucic, the question was about certified bodies who would work or whether 29 people would be able to work advisory services, who has worked so far. In 2010, when this advisory service was drowned in Croatia's forests, who was taking care of private forest owners all the time. In this way, in the advisory service regulated by law, rights, that part of the work will be done by fellow Members. Certified bodies, I am talking about the chamber of fellow foresters where there are over 1000 colleagues and colleagues with a license, there are many companies, companies that will be able to operate as well as Croatian forests that will be able to operate. Unfortunately, we also have examples now, of private forests that don't do it regulated, have... and tags and everything they do without any control. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this ministry, there are very significant corrective factors and it is called forest inspection, which will work quite differently on the ground and after public tenders from the authorities that receive and which are certified, which get these jobs, will control them in what way they work. Comrade Chehok, he's not here, there's been a question, although most things, the Czech Republic, although most of the things he commended in this law, I think most of the remarks went to the deadlines of the strategies that were mentioned. Yes, our deadlines are related to the EU Foresting Strategy that I mentioned. We are a full member of the European Union, and we must bring our acts into line with their legislative framework and with their strategic documents so that all our strategies will be made within the deadlines. Our beautiful islands were mentioned, a playground with some lots of holes, 500 acres or so. In this way, through this debate, I'm going to repeat again, you're actually disabling local self-government units. Here a lot of mayors and mayors stand, their representative bodies are those bodies that bring together throughout the process, complex procedure for the adoption of spatial-planned documentation, through public debates and through everything else bring spatial plans. They also bring in plans of a lower order that lasts for months. We all live in these units of local self-government and more or less we were involved in the adoption of these spatial plans. This possibility of seizing and giving to use with the right to build is related to spatial-planning documentation of all our units of local self-government. Exclusion from the forest economic base, and the majority refers only to forest land which is not forest in nature, which is located within the forest economic base and you know that you come from coastal cities and municipalities to which part of these requirements apply... part... forest. Here's an example of an investment that's been buried on Solta for years. On several hectares of investment over 200m euros in potential investment, Greenfield investment stands because of the inability to allocate 2 hectares of land located on a forest economic basis and on which there are no trees, is not in the nature of the forest. The development of the final product is constantly mentioned, yes, in any case. In 2012, Mr. Lucic you said, the best results so far is even exporting furniture 20 million dollars more. Why, because we gave and designed a model, we agreed with our woodworking multi-annual contracts, 10-year contracts where they can be developed in a quality way and planned and employed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74517	Thank you, Minister. We've got two lines reported. Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you're persistently polluting with something we're not talking about today. The MPs read the law and insist, so it is clear to us that the golf course and the camp plot remain within the forest economic area and that the right to build is established on it and we know it. And we're talking about what's written in that same article, Article 25(1), which is that for all other purposes that can be predicted in forests and forest land, which is Mr. Vice President before you've replicated me, it can be residential, it can be sports, it can be touristic, it can be planned to build hotel accommodation, it can be planned to build energy plants, it can be planned industrial plants. Therefore, all these purposes of this law are allowed to be realised on forests and forest land, and for these purposes, this area is detached from the forest-economic base and this land is now no longer managed by the body, as it says in the law, and that is the Central State Property Management Office, which can then, according to the Law on the availability of social property, do what it wants with that property. So he can sell it, he can establish another way to use it, but he can sell it. And that's what I've been trying to keep trying all morning to explain to the Minister not to pollomise with us about golf and camp because it's clear that it can't go for sale but that it remains part of the forest economic base and goes towards building rights. But I claim other purposes that go to sell. That's an important difference, and I don't know why you keep talking about camp and golf. I am telling you about other possibilities, other buildings that are built on land, forests and forest land and can go for sale although it is the natural wealth of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74519	Thank you. Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74520	Your Honor, I was talking about camp and golf because it wasn't arranged and we wouldn't have to talk about this if we had the Camping Law or if the existing law had arranged the possibility of building a camp in the woods and forest land. When you talk about this second story, I think I've already said on several occasions that the ministry's opinion should be explicitly positive on the spatial plan that is intruding significantly into a part of the extremely valuable or very valuable economic forest you're talking about. And if you're going to talk about economic zones and spatial plans, even though I say once again, we all come from local self-government units and we know how long and painful the process of creating spatial-planned documentation is and there's no reason to doubt in advance the colleagues and representative bodies who brought them in. But even under your current law in Article 51, forest land could be allocated for economic purposes and for economic zones, cement plants and everything else if envisaged. And they're set aside without compensation, given to units of local self-government or investors without compensation with the right to build on property. We here edit this segment, define it, leave it owned by the Republic of Croatia and give importance to spatial plans and units of local self-government that have worked hard on these spatial plans. Under the current law of Article 51, you can set aside for economic zones, for that part of other activities, and now that has been done. You know how it was done and how the local self-government units got for business zones. Now we regulate what has not been resolved and we give meaning to the spatial plans adopted, and we organize, that is, we give a model of how they will react with a binding opinion, with a positive opinion for the future on all spatial plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74521	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74522	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I hope you'll pass the Camping Act as soon as possible, Mr. Minister, we can't wait. Or maybe it's a pre-election new promise from your government. One, of course we agree with you that neither the forest nor the water can be said you're the subject of sale. Of course, I can't. But, Mr. Honorable Minister, they must not be the subject of destruction. And please be nice. You're listening to our debates and our replicas today, and now Mr. Bačić. So allow me, help yourself, and sometimes try to reason on it, reasonably answer because you see what the problem is. When you don't have the Ministers of Argument, then you start changing perceptions, then you get caught up in forgiveness, then you mention the Law of Camps. Then you're saying that forest land isn't where there's no tree. Mr. Minister, you've got a respected colleague of the woods next door. As long as the root is right, Mr. Vice President of that tree, which, for example, burned in some kind of inhospitable fire, as long as the root of that tree is in that country, it's run like forest land. When someone remembers, and a lot of people thought of taking out that root and stuffing it up a little bit, it's agricultural and then it's being re-purposed. So let these people sitting here know something, that they were ministers, that they were mayors, and that they're not dependent at all on any segment of you, but they want an interest. And let us also say that we are not those professions and we are not mayors and we are not mayors and we don't know some of the people you listed, but we know others from science. But we were interested. We want to protect the woods, the woods. We have nothing against golf, absolutely nothing. Well, that's a very popular sport. Even in prison, they play it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74523	Time. Minister's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74524	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, I'm listening to this replica, but I don't really know what to say. I mentioned the Law on Camps because it's a law that should regulate areas that cover camps. But even the existing Foresting Act did not give us opportunities, and I don't know what the value is or what the possibility of building a camp in any part of the coast is if we don't have the forest in which it is. And when you talk about science, you refer to science. I cited that all the institutions of the University of Shumar, the director of the Forest Institute, the chambers and all the other colleagues were involved in the drafting of this bill. I'm sure they did a very good job. In some parts, we can still correct it if we see that there are possible illogicalities or things that we need to fix. But on the one hand, we are calling for science and expertise, and on the other hand completely disabling the proposal that these same people made together with experts from the Croatian Forests, along with experts from the Directorate of Forestry quite two-faced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74525	Thank you, too. You'll let me colleagues twilight forest land can also be forest meadows. But when we talk about you, you probably meant forest floor. So there's an absolute and relative forest floor. We're moving on to an individual debate. Comrade Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74526	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate. First of all, I would like to say that the Presidency of the Parliament, when the Government directs these proposals to the laws under which the emergency procedure requires the adoption of a law which is essentially governed and referred to environmental and nature protection that the first filter should be to verify whether the law has passed a public hearing with the public concerned within 30 days of the regulation... The convention, as prescribed by our Environmental Protection Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if the procedure has not been carried out after this House has passed that law, then it seems to me that the law should be returned or, at the very least, the Presidency should return it to the procedure under which the law would be in the first reading. This is how the government now, as far as I can tell, has accepted that the law goes in two readings. But I think that the Presidency of the Parliament in such situations should only react and leave that obligation, which is prescribed and prescribed by the law, that such laws relating to environmental protection, and that the protection of forests and natural wealth certainly is, and somehow, the important protection of the environment should pass that procedure. What I believe is that, through several replicas during the morning, it is unacceptable that Article 25 and paragraph 1 without restrictions can be established by building land for any purpose on forests and forest land. You, Mr. Vice President, said earlier in the replica that regulation might lead to such norms in order for the law to be crossed so that it might not be easy to implement the applicable law on forests. So, the applicable law that we are amending here is just prescribing and establishing certain fences, restrictions that can be prescribed by spatial plans on forests and forest land. And now we are putting it out of force with this law, and we are allowing the local self-government unit in its space to prescribe the possibility of setting up construction land on forests and forest land, as the draft law states, with the express consent of the minister. However, what we forget is that in the meantime we have passed two laws, which is the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on Strategic Investment Projects, where local self-government is hardly asked about objects of state and county importance. We are at this point, we, the government is in the process of adopting a regulation establishing objects of state importance for which the facilities will be made specific state plans of the arrangement. And that procedure far from the public's eyes in the local self-government will be carried out by the government, I still don't know what procedure, but it will bring a state plan of arrangement, a state urban plan that will prescribe just such objects that are of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Perhaps part of these projects will just be on forests and forest land and thus the established verticals that occur on the realization of a number of projects will take place beyond the full range that the local self-government unit previously had. Therefore, I did not just mention it, but I am aware that this way, without touching the unit of local self-government in a procedure that is also foreseen by the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on Strategic Investment Projects in Forests and on Forest Land, a building land that can be used for any purpose. And we need to be aware of that, because that government doesn't need to run away from it because it is ultimately by the laws it has prescribed before. As for golf and camping, however, it is true that the planned construction of golf and campsites in forests and forest land remains part of the forest economic area, i.e. part of the forest economic base. But the question can be asked, I also asked the minister when we passed the law, is the camp really not building land? For me, the camp is extremely decorated building land. The real camp, the top camp in the Republic of Croatia is an extremely decorated construction area, and we are taking it one step further by law and declaring it a special purpose forest. In order for the camp to be arranged in function, the required number of stars must have a top-level infrastructure, largely possibly laid down in the ground. But there's no quality camp that doesn't have quality water supply, draining, public lighting, electricity, road infrastructure. Therefore, this area is considered a special purpose forest and not considered a building land I do not know what in Croatia can be considered a building land if it is not a regulated camp. It can be arranged with greenery but it's primarily a construction area. And I don't accept such a solution to camp or golf, but even golf may not have as much developed infrastructure as it has camp, it is not considered building land under this law. When we warned that it was possible, according to this law on forests and forest land, to develop any buildings, to build any facilities for any purpose, then Mr. Minister replicated me saying that Article 51 of the current law also prescribed what could be built in forests and forest land. It is true that it is prescribed and I will say what it says in Article 51, so it is possible to build an entrepreneurial zone over forests and forest land, build infrastructures of sport, recreation and hunting, facilities for the purposes of defence of the Republic of Croatia, religious and health buildings and monuments of historical events, mass graves, etc. Under the current law, this was precisely determined what could be developed in forests and forest land. But what was very important, Mr. Minister, was that this could happen on forests and forest land was a procedure that was more complex than your arbitrary assessment of whether it could be developed in forests and forest land today. In order for this to happen, an interested investor should have had a procedure by the Government through the Ministry of Justice's resolution which referred to this House, then this proposal on the establishment of public interest to the Committee on Construction and Spatial Planning of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Regional Development, where these committees had to show whether these projects were really more important than the constitutional provision that we would protect forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia. This is how this procedure has been removed by this bill and with due respect for the members of the Government and the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, I hold that whether natural wealth in the Republic of Croatia will be able to be sold under this simple procedure of this law must not be in the hands of a government official, it cannot be. If the Constitution provides that forests and forest land are spaces of special interest in the Republic of Croatia for which the Republic of Croatia will have special protection as provided for in Article 52. The Constitution prescribed, and in this way the decision on whether or not we will sell and sell natural resources under the Law on the availability of state property where it is intended and sold, including the right to build, etc., I do not think that it should remain on this legal provision under which this can happen in accordance with the express consent of the Minister responsible for forestry affairs in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I hold that it is necessary to enable and facilitate investment in the Republic of Croatia, but it seems to me that forests and forest land still cannot be in the same level with the devastated spaces in the Republic of Croatia where such a provision of the law as is now prescribed in the Law on Forests I would first raise my hand. But when it comes to maritime good, aquatic good, forests, forest land and agricultural land of the first category, it cannot be in the same level with the devasted spaces in the Republic of Croatia which can be a building and not a construction area. And that's what I wanted to tell you, Mr. Vice President, that as a person who is expert in this work, you should also advocate as part of the ruling majority that when it comes to the protection of forests and forest land, certain provisions should still be laid down that would not allow for such access to forests and forest land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74527	Thank you. We move to replicas, Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74528	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Bacic, your exposure was instructive and I think the minister came a little unprepared, that he didn't understand what to him... today and all the time based on golf and camp and you rightly warn about the problem that will arise. Today campes are apartment settlements. You have installation homes that are mounted, they have a connection, they have a drain, they have water supply, they have electricity, they're about to be on the floor, they're just playing the wheels, and it's 60, 70% of every camp because it's the most profitable part of the camp, you buy a house for 15 thousand euros, and in a year you pay it off if you're filled up for a hundred days, and that's what camps do. This has become your legal apartment settlements today. And they say it doesn't have too much to do with the structure and construction areas. And then we hear from the Minister for the first time in this House that someone mentioned the Camping Act, it's probably going to be a law equal to the Law on Attending Activity because I see the camp as a particular type of tourism. I mean, what are we gonna do about it? What are we gonna do about the Camping Law? The law on apartments or the law on what, hotels? I mean, we can't say it here because I'm afraid of something. For the first time in the Adriatic coast and the forests on the Adriatic, we were destroyed by the Milky Way, and I'm afraid when we adopt this kind of law and in this way they predicted it would be the new Milky Way, and I think it would be SDP, and it would not be useful for us or for the Croatian citizens, and it would be better to listen to what they say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74529	My colleague Boric, would be, would you please do not discuss the comparison of such a nature. The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74530	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Boric, right in this law, golf is no exception when it comes to the purpose of forests and forest land, or the change in the purpose of forests and forest land, they golf and camp is an exception when it comes to establishing public interest and the fact that it continues to be forestland, that it remains forest and forest land that remains on a forest economic basis. So that's what it's all about. I agree with you, therefore, that it is necessary to establish that camps, that even golf under this law cannot continue to be and we cannot call them special purpose forests more than when you look a little better at the regulated areas of land where the camps are established, it certainly is not and cannot be established as a special purpose forest. It's pure building land. And I, when we passed the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, asked the question of ministers, and it is, is now best seen in this law, if the golf plot provided for for golf and land intended for the camp is not a building plot then the local self-government unit today in the Republic of Croatia opens up the possibility because it is no longer a building plot developing new zones, new surfaces, new building land because if the land where golf is being built, the golf and the land for the camp is not a building land then we in Croatia automatically have huge areas that are no longer building land and then it does not interfere with the unit of local self-government that has so far had 100 ha of land planned for golf and which were building land they now according to this Law can or now have special purposes which can easily extend the building land by 100 hectares. And that way, maybe, maybe that's what happens in the next phase, some new law might actually do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74531	Time, colleague Bacic. Thank you. Next replica, Frano Matušić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74532	Thank you. So on the trail and the replica, but primarily on the trail of the debate of your colleague Bačić, the question can be asked whether the construction plot of the golf course on which to build 250 villas, so it is according to this bill that came before us that is not building land, so 250 villas will be built, each villa will have a surface of at least 1000 square meters and it is not building land. I don't know what that is? It's a special purpose forest. A forest with a special purpose. An even greater excuse is that you are not going to separate from the construction land for golf because there is every part, even the part that remains green is the construction part because it has to be arranged separately. There comes special grass, come special lakes that are built for the needs of golf course, come special parts where the sand is etc. So irrigation, infrastructure, second and all others, so it's a complete building plot. So the total land that was intended for golf is exclusively building land, exclusively building land, it completely changes the appearance of the land on which it will take place. And that's why I'm saying it's a fig leaf, and when this law connects to the Strategic Investments Act that you've been saying, but I've said it before in replicas, then it's clear what's going to happen, then it's clear that it's about a new... law, that's what it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74533	Thank you. My colleague Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74534	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Our colleague Matušić, already in the discussion of the Law on Spatial Planning, said golf and camp must be considered building land, must be considered building land. Why golf? As a rule, areas for golf are very large to 300 hectares and when you in that area of 300 hectares allow building and development of objects in the area of 4%, that is 12 hectares, 12 hectares of surface only. If you still allow villas that have one or two floors in that space, then you can think of how much the area of developed building space is, and we hear today that it is and that it is a special purpose camp, and for me it is only building land because I said it was not, then it would not be according to the Law on Spatial Construction, that the Government claims that it is not building land, units of local self-government and regional self-government counted in the area of building land, because if it were not counted at that moment in Croatia, the stampede of establishing new construction zones would have been touristic, either recreational, or entrepreneurial, whatever, if we had removed these huge surfaces from spatial plans now, we would have thrown out that they were not building land.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74535	Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74536	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bacic, I hope that if your debate the minister listened carefully to his associate that he now became more clear to him about what you were talking about. You see, everyone mentions the adoption of the Golf Act and, of course, here it was intended to ignore that in 2011, you were a minister, withdrawn that golf law for a simple reason because it was equally public and professional and each other pointed to some problems and it's not embarrassing to say. But if today you reason on something, you simply don't want to accept it, but you keep insisting on one and the same with the forests about special purposes, then I don't think it's like counterpart Matusic said covered with one fig leaf, but some 7 because now he doesn't know what's hiding there anymore. Simply maybe they're out of nothing you've made 7 veils of secrets, whether it's golf, I don't know, camp, so the good camp law will solve that dilemma, it's not controversial, it'll be all right, and then we'll know what it looks like and what it's camp. But I think that we really need to listen sometimes, and not sometimes, but very often, not just to the public and the professional public, but also to people who are involved in that and former ministers and mayors and mayors and all others who can point out. Well, maybe you really don't want to use this law intimately, Minister, you may not really want to, but you're simply opening up the possibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74537	Thank you. My colleague Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74538	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade twilight, so here I am publicly saying that I have nothing against the golf course. I have nothing against golf courses and I hold that it is necessary in the Republic of Croatia to be a top tourist destination, to build golf courses and it should be realised where projects with a clear fence on environmental conservation can really be built there. But what this law is trying to say, is that we will allow and we will go out to meet the construction of golf, but listen, it is not a building land, it will continue to be a forest economic base and we will continue to, in this way, protect the forests, and in fact it will not happen but it will now be easier and simpler according to our faster procedure than it has been the case so far, without any restrictions in the law, we will be able to build both golf and camp, but what is even less acceptable to me are numerous, numerous building surfaces than the old purpose that I have already pointed out many times during the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74539	Ivan Simunović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74540	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bacic, I don't believe anyone in this assembly has anything against business and investment, not even against the golf course. Since tourism is one branch of the economy that works for us, the additional content we offer to tourists is always welcome. But we need to find a balance between investment and economic progress, on the one hand, and the preservation of the environment, nature and our resources from the other. Giving rights to construction on forest land for the purpose of building golf courses, insane and harmful ideas. Experience from abroad tells us that it is not about employment that will push the economy but about infrastructure that brings well-being to the wider community. Last year, Scotland was buzzing about how Mr Trump failed to keep the promises he made when he asked permission for his golf course project with luxury hotels, then talking about billions of pounds of investment and about 6,000 employees. He got golf courses, but the investment didn't cross 25 million pounds, and only 200 people were employed. We can be comforted that it's not about changing land from forest to construction but only about the right to build. But what happens after 10, 20, and 50 years when the right of construction expires, let us not fool ourselves, this is about the permanent loss of forests from forest land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74541	Thank you. Would you like to answer that? You will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74542	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Simunović, I also said my position on golf in Mrs. Sumrak's replica, that's what I'm going to tell you. So golf is needed, golf is necessary, but given the size of investments, investors find it difficult to legalise the construction of a golf course without objects that then form part of some real estate business that counterpart Matušić was talking about. And with whatever golf course investor you're talking to, everyone asks them to increase the area of building a villa of other facilities on the golf course because through their sale, through their exploitation they could largely secure that profit he expects from the golf course because it's usually only the golf course that doesn't allow it. And that should be said publicly that I support that the government does everything to attract and realize certain locations of golf courses on the Adriatic, but I'm sure this approach is not good. And this law is the best confirmation that the Law on Investment Projects is in large part a dead letter on paper because in order for it to be realised we enter slowly from day to day in this Croatian Assembly to change individual laws because we saw that the Law on Strategic Projects cannot realise these strategic investments without slowly entering the capular into one law at a time. and this law is one of those laws that needs to be amended because if we don't change them, then the Strategic Investment Projects Act will remain a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74543	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74544	You are telling your colleague that this bill is a fig leaf, and you were after the minister and you were first president of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning when it was passed in 2008 the Law on Golf Courses, which in its Article 1 shows "Building a golf course of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia is also an inclusive and detached forest and forest land from the forest-economic base for the construction of a quality Mediterranean and European golf destination" whatever that means. And now my dear colleague really points out this if we were more self-critical in politics, and it would be a little more critical for all of us because this way with this kind of heat and this passion to talk about the dangers of this law besides what you've brought, these shames, so that we would have it after we've declared the lawsuit, and then you brought out changes and supplements that were richer than the basic law, and then before the elections you withdrew the law so you wouldn't be ashamed of the voters, unfortunately it didn't help either because people were really bitter about that bill. Now you see when it's explained here where, what, when the law says there's no separation, when we really want what we have to protect but also so that all of our wealth is not just for viewing but to put it into economic activity like what all of the regulated countries are doing, and it's exactly the way that the local self-government unit and the ministry itself are best controlled because we know and you'll admit that corruption is at the local level of the branch and that it's not even touched its head yet, let alone tail. I'll tell you the same thing when you say how it was before, in Zadar, Vruljica Park, please, it was already known who was going to build the building, who was going to get the apartments, and then there were approvals to tear down the trees and turn the forest into a building.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74545	Thank you. My colleague Bacic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74546	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Ingrid, I'm not sure you've read the Law on Golf Courses and this law today, I'm not sure I have to tell you. Why? Because that law was a little baby under this law. In that law, the first article found that golf courses are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, but for each individual golf course. According to this 2009 law, which was abolished in 2011 which I explained here in the Assembly its abolition, for your information, was to be carried out a procedure which is in relation to the procedure prescribed by this law extremely complicated. Yes, it's extremely complicated and ask the golf course investors what they've been going through, and according to that law, they've had to carry out the procedure again. The law was controversial in the part where local self-government units were obliged to sell golf course investors if the golf course area was 20% without a public tender. That was the constitutional inconsistency of the law, and I don't think that law was necessary because it could be solved by other laws. But I'm telling you, with the procedure provided for by this law, that law was a little baby.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74547	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Mirela Holly. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74548	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It's disgusting to hear this debate today. Why? And because of today's opposition, and then the government that now draws on the knight's suit of public interest protectors, although in the past term it has done everything to help its friendly private lobbys, but also because of the current government, then the opposition that today is trying to defend indefensiblely and to show that public interest is something that is manifestly private or particular interest. When citizens and citizens of Croatia watch these discussions, it is no wonder their stomach is turning and their general politics is disgusted. So what can I conclude but that in Croatia when we talk about the interest of capital in power is one and the same team? Is there any difference in this sense between the opposition and the position? There isn't. Because interest is always particular and never public. Is the Law on the Forests a law that goes into environmental protection issues? According to the Environmental Protection Act that we discussed in the Croatian Parliament and adopted a little less than a year ago in Article 22 concerning the protection of the forest area, which is part of the head of the 3 environmental components and the impact of the burden, it is determined "The protection of forest areas includes the protection of natural and partly natural ingredients, forest areas, forest complexes as well as the protection of forest soil, plant and animal life that is in the forest area and the genetic, seed-based indigenous species of trees.", the end of the quote. The same roof law prescribes a minimum 30th day legal time limit for public participation in a law-making process that could have a significant impact on the environment. Who does not know where it writes, shall read the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act from Article 162 in the conclusion of Article 166. Here the provisions stem from an extremely important international convention, which is the Archuscan Convention, which was ratified by the Croatian Parliament in 2006 more precisely on 7 December 2006. So there is absolutely no excuse that the document we are discussing today was not in a public debate within a minimum of 30 days in accordance with the roof environmental law. It is unfortunately only one problem with the proposal of the Law on Amendments and additions to the Law on Forests. As a former member of the SDP, who was a representative in the previous assembly of the parliament, I must say that I am very uncomfortable when I read this bill because I cannot believe that the government in which the SDP is a dominant party, that the government in which the SDP member is resolute has sent this proposal to the Parliament. And even if there was a public debate on this bill. Why? Because this proposal is in direct contrast to what the SDP advocated in the previous term or at the time of the opposition. In the meantime, what happened was that the SDP made a copernican twist in relation to the party's position on the golf course law which, like this proposal we're discussing today, enabled almost the same thing, declaring forests of special purpose, golf courses and camps, which actually enables private investors to possess state forests for the purposes of realising golf courses and camps. I warn that golf courses and campsites cannot be classified as special purpose forests but only as recreational and tourist zones as it is also foreseen by spatial plans. This proposal in the part relating to the realisation of golf courses and camps is a pure benefit for private investors because it allows them to have a self-determined agriculture minister, without a public interest procedure through the Government and a resolution committee for the spatial planning of the Croatian Parliament, decide whether someone will declare the forest for special purposes. It is in complete contrast to the public interest of the forest and forest land is redesigned into building plots and this bill allows it. As a result, it is no wonder that this proposal has caused a real public storm from environmental protection associations such as "Green Action" which has been mentioned here many times today to professional associations, i.e. to the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Forestry and Wood Technology. The Chamber warns that the proposal calls into question one of the fundamental principles of forest policy, the obligation to maintain and improve forest resources, regardless of the form of ownership, in the part of the provisions where it makes a difference or in a different position, puts a commercial company which manages state forests, other legal persons who manage state forests and private owners, or forest owners. In this respect, from the point of view of the forest profession, the implementation of the principle of conservation and improvement of forests and forest resources is provided by law and only for the state-owned forests of the company. The reason for the existence of the Forests Act is their protection because forests are extremely valuable natural resources, a real plantation of biodiversity and a resource that is an extremely important instrument in countering climate change and carbon neutralisation as the most widespread greenhouse gas, and in this sense, the strategic value of forests in the future will have an ever greater and more important value. Croatia can be extremely happy that the state is rich in forests and should therefore work to protect this resource rather than expose it to inappropriate exploitation by favouring the interests of some private lobbys. It is good that the ruling majority decided to discuss this law in two readings, however that is not enough. This law must be withdrawn from the procedure because it is in direct contrast with the public interest and raises doubts about the possible guessing and corruption. In fact, if we pass such a law then some investors will be able to avoid a procedure of public interest, the minister will be able to decide, with his decree, to redesign a forest for special purposes without conducting a public interest procedure. I am absolutely sure that if this law is passed, a request for a constitutional assessment will be submitted, just as a request for a constitutional assessment has been submitted for the golf course law already mentioned. There is a good possibility that the Constitutional Court will respond positively to this request and abolish the disputed provisions of the law. But what happens if, in the meantime, the minister is a decreed investor, for example. the development of golf in which the Srđ golf project is implemented enabled to be re-purposed into the forest for special purposes without the public interest process being carried out. Who, in that case, will be responsible for the damage done to the public interest? Minister of Agriculture, Government of the Republic of Croatia? Does the SDP and the Government really need this kind of embarrassment? I believe this proposal is a very dangerous risk, this proposal is not in the public interest and damages the government's reputation. So I urge the government to withdraw this proposal from the procedure, not jump into its own mouth and not step on public interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74549	Very sharp, thank you. Buddy Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74550	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Holly, in a large part of your debate, agrees, but it seems to me that part of it I also spoke during the morning, but what you are missing in your presentation states that this law must not be brought down to the level and level of golf and the level of camp. He is one of the important issues of this law but what I want to say is that he goes one step further where he is even more harmful and where he can contribute to further devastation of the forest it is possible that, with the decree that you mentioned earlier, the minister is on that forest plot next to golf and camping can plan anything, sell, without determining public interest. This is therefore, with golf and camping more harmful to forests and forest land, so this provision than the one mentioned for golf and camp, only it is obvious that golf and camp is somehow building golf and camp is a topic that is easier to tickle the public so it is more prominent in the assembly today. But for the forest and forest land, for me, the provision of Article 25(1) is more dangerous, more unacceptable and must not be adopted by the Government in such a text if it really wants to care for and care for forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74551	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74552	Dear colleague, I have also mentioned that it is possible to re-use into construction land and I ask the question why we are even discussing this law today if the minister himself said that a brand-new forest law is being prepared. I'll tell you why, in the meantime, to allow some projects that are clearly already in the process of realisation to come up with a shortened procedure to be declared a special purpose forest. Then it is likely that the law will be withdrawn because perhaps the constitutional court will manifest itself negatively about it, and who will then determine who made the mistake? We'll get a new forest law and no one at all. I'm afraid that's the fundamental reason why we're discussing this law today if it's already a new forest law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74553	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74554	Thank you very much. My colleague Holly, I've been keeping my mouth shut all day, and I'm just listening, but I haven't heard from either side anything disgusting, no matter what you've said, the debate is disgusting. And I would just point out that forests are as national wealth as well as water and for a true square of natural forest I wouldn't give that square for a hundred golf courses or camps. But in Croatia it seems to me, not as an expert, because I'm not an expert in this area, that we call everything noise and that's the problem. You were also talking about environmental protection. It's paradoxical, but it seems to me that we've had a negative impact on the environment and on the noise. I personally participated 40 years ago in planting pines and I think instead of olive trees that we planted and drove us to the coast and hills to plant pine trees and that it was a kind of ecocid with the construction of the Adriatic pine planting highway that did the greatest damage to natural wealth and that made me report today. And while in Greece one sees pine weeds, in Croatia we protect them. Which is why, that's why I don't get it. Let the waist at least answer that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74555	You won't answer? In fact, you may have thought of the Aleppo pine, it is naturally restored. We're continuing the debate. Nadica Jelash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74556	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. So the main objective of this legislative proposal is to speed up the land-owned process of the Republic of Croatia to create conditions for dynamicising investment activity. Or to be in the next step a little more concrete, the law provides for the separation of forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia from the forest economic area and the inclusion in the building area by the basis of the spatial plans adopted. The exception is the detachment of forests and forest land for the purpose of building golf courses and camps, which are declared for the purpose of fulfilling this purpose by the forest of special purposes and which are not included in the construction area, but remains in the constituent part of the forest economic area of the Republic of Croatia, and the investor achieves the goal of establishing the right of construction. I will remind you of the tourism development strategy we adopted a few years ago, which detected the extra-board offer as a highly uncompetitive segment of the total tourist offer in Croatia, while at the same time it is recognized as a product with a great development perspective. If this tourist offer is important to us, then this tourism industry is important and certainly is and if we have great expectations of tourism and we have, then in the process of improving Croatia as a tourist destination we should also anticipate investment in golf infrastructure because it is an unforgiving element of the tourist offer in our competitive environment. So in Slovenia and Austria, today we've heard that data, we have dozens of golf courses while there are only 6. We're obviously missing it. Compared to earlier years, we now have a realisation and I would like to tell long-term golf stories so much more interesting and so much easier to make golf investments available and European funds. That is why I personally view this legislative proposal as a compromise solution between the need to preserve forests as an invaluable national resource, but also putting them into function of economic growth, so through the construction of golf course but also the final one, I will say the recognition of the fact that we already have dozens of camps on the ground. When we talk about the need to protect the forest, I will mention one aspect of the value of the forest that has never been mentioned before, or I haven't noticed it personally. Namely, the forests are huge natural water tanks and thanks to the fact that as much as 47% of the land area of the Republic of Croatia is under the forests of Croatia, there is also an enviable abundance of the original drinking water in which we are third in Europe. So, behind Iceland and Norway and 30 places in the world. Geopoliticals agree that drinking water will become the most rewarding and valuable natural resource, the kind of black gold of the 21st century. So, what's oil today tomorrow will be water. I am saying this to stress that forests are our invaluable comparative advantage and that this legislative proposal by the Ministry of Agriculture takes on itself exactly a huge responsibility which is, of course, in correlation with the enormous value of Croatian forests. Because according to Article 29(3) of this Law, it is the ministry that will declare a particular forest and forest land with a special purpose for the construction of a golf course or camp. According to the current Forest Act, we now have three categories of forests with special purpose. It is therefore forests with a special purpose for the production of forest seed, so there are forests with a special purpose for scientific research and teaching and at the end of the forest with a special purpose for the defence of the Republic of Croatia. Now with this legal proposal we get another one I would say the fourth category of forests with a special purpose declared by the Ministry of Agriculture, and for the purpose of building golf courses and camps. So, the ministry will determine which forests and forest land will turn into areas for golf courses and camps. The ministry will also give an opinion on spatial plans that plan to expand the construction area to forests and forest land. In addition, the Minister will prescribe a special regulation to calculate the compensation to be paid for forests separated from the forest economic area and included in the construction area. And when I mention that fee, I have to mention Article 27 of the 5th Amendment of the Law, which provides for the possibility of detaching forests and forest land without compensation. So I'm setting up a sweat which are cases of isolation and why separation is done without compensation. I think these cases should be named in the legal proposal. Finally, the law provides for a new consultative service set up by very demanding tasks. Among other things, it should implement education, provide technical assistance and prepare private forest owners for the use of funds from international funds intended for the development of forestry and rural development. Namely, as we know from 2014 to 2020, Croatia will have 2 billion and 100 million euros available through the Rural Development Programme. And therefore, on the management of the advisory services, I should be one huge responsibility for creating assumptions for the withdrawal of these funds. I wonder if this will be able to do the same team that was unable or not to take good care of even the investment of funds collected from the compensation for the use of generally useful forest functions to improve the forests of private forest owners. Therefore, these funds were not invested in private forests to a large extent, and they were to be invested, and they were to be expended without purpose or purpose for purposes to which they were not allowed. So, in every job, people are definitely the most important, and if we want a quality advisory service, we need to place the most competent and qualitative people on its forehead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74557	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Mirela Holly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74558	Dear colleagues Jelash, you are a very quality and conscientious representative who is always very well prepared for his discussions. And you're absolutely right when you claim that in Austria there are an extremely large number of golf courses. I think there's over 100 of them, and I even think there's 200 of them if I'm not wrong. However, you should bear in mind that golf projects in Austria are implemented in a completely different way than they are realized in Croatia, that is, the way they are planned to be realized in Croatia. In Austria, as a rule, 3 hotels agree together to invest together in a golf project to extend their season and thus fill their hotels with guests who will play golf at a nearby golf course. And that is why golf projects are not realised as real estate projects, but are realised as projects whose main purpose is to extend the tourist season for existing tourist facilities. And I think that's the way that Croatia went so that golf doesn't have as bad a reputation as it now has in the Republic of Croatia. So there's absolutely no problem in golf. Golf is a sport that can really be a quality content for enriching the tourist season and extending the season. But the question is, what is golf used for as an excuse?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74559	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74560	Dear fellow Holly, you have now explained to all of us here the actual model of the realisation of the golf course project in Austria. But I haven't been able to figure out the connection between that model and this bill of ours on the amendments to the Forest Law. So, I didn't realize what you were actually trying to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74561	Thank you. Next replica, Marijan Skuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74562	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. I also want to express my gratitude that you have prepared well so that you know as well about these substances as we do some parliamentary representatives who are engaged in forestry and wood industry. Thank you for that. At the same time, I would also like to emphasise that you have well respected a concept, which is that this Law on Forests must first and foremost look at the same level that we want new investment activities, that we want major development prospects opened in Croatia and of course we want to have great expectations. Croatia needs this. Because if we're going to deal with the conspiracy theory that we're doing here a little bit the same thing in this part of this conspiracy theory is talking about it. Now let's all our ministers, for example, re-convict right at the beginning as criminals, shut down, do nothing. Let's say for that, and what are we going to need? Well, we have golf courses in Austria, Italy, Slovenia, so we also have camps all over the Mediterranean, which we don't need. Let's stick to the way that they'll have camps, golf courses, and we'll have clean air, water, we'll have woods. And what else will we have? And we'll all be happy. In particular, those who are critical of everything will be pleased, and they have no concrete answers to what we need in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74563	Answer, colleague Jelesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74564	Your esteemed colleague, in fact, said well, that is to say, you have qualified a part of today's debates. In fact, we are in Croatia in some way experts in making every good idea so that we turn this one into some kind of bad idea, some kind of potential crime. So, indeed, Croatia is abundant in forests, that's our huge value, our huge national resource. But in some ways, in these conditions, when we have high expectations of tourism, it's partly dead capital. So it's okay to put it into function of economic growth, of course, by respecting all the legal provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74565	Thank you. Next up for the debate, Joseph Kregar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74566	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Minister. In this already-club atmosphere, I would say, perhaps I should speak with a little bit of naiveness that I will try to keep like Mr. Maric. First of all, I would like to thank and commend here the fact that we will have two readings of this law and thus provide the possibility of a good, quality public dialogue on this. Why does it matter? Because today we have seen that there are misunderstandings, that there are political conflicts over the interpretation of objectives, intentions and possibilities of this law. That's why it's very good. And that's why the fact that the ministry has now heard the ears and will listen to the remarks I think it can only contribute to a quality legal solution. However, respected colleagues are my opinion that this is not about forests at all, even though it's called the law, this is about land. That's what this is about. And it's about what the cost of land will be, because no one defends either in the construction of camps or in the construction of golf course to buy private land. You just know, you've heard how many golf courses there are and how much investment it would be for someone who wants to buy land. Therefore, land should be obtained under as favourable conditions as possible, even free of charge. But is that in the interest of the Republic of Croatia? I don't think you should, on the contrary, think you should build something that will enrich tourism content. But you see, the problem with this discussion of ours was that under that argument there was something else. But the ones who criticized earlier laws are also right. So I think golf courses have shown who is ruling Croatia and what is the impact of those who have a lot of money for investment. Dubrovnik is the best example. Therefore, there is dissatisfaction, caution, and fear. You said Mr. Vice President, who was bitten by a lizard, afraid even though you didn't mention the animal. But that's true. We actually meet here with one prejudice to mention golf, at least I, forgive me, I remember Dubrovnik and the financial calculations of all that. And I wouldn't want this government to happen again. I wouldn't want it to be a small door, which the minister certainly won't, opening up the possibility that someone cheap to get a discount here, a simpler process in turning the woods, I'm sorry I'm just going to go to, to the golf course. Well, there's no forest on the golf course, but there's no grass the way we would consider it normal, natural grass. It's grass that requires a lot of farming, lots of fertilisers, lots of water. It's not autochton, anyway. Now you see why in the woods? So we could go golf course as Mrs. Holly said to build in such a way that the hotels join and build golf courses nearby. But the intention of this kind in Croatia has not been quite realized so far. We had the opposite, which is that golf courses were turned into a real construction venture. Where golf was just an excuse, and the real goal was building housing. Well, that's what I think is not supposed to happen here. And it should set out, I think, the firm and clear criteria that the minister would have made not to make arbitrary and decree what would be but to introduce into the law the criteria by which such things could be approved. Because there's a field in Dalmatia that would actually cry out for them to get settled. There's no forest, and maybe golf course would be something that can be done. But I don't think I owe it. Golf courts have served to open on a small door the possibility of building high-luxury buildings on practically free land and this is what needs to be prevented and this can be prevented in advance by provisions of non-legislators I mean a law that will prevent such housing on such grounds, it is not against golf. It's against abuse. I'm sorry, I only told someone at the club, but I'll do it again here. Please, who brings me a picture of golfers from the golf course in the mud here in Zagreb I buy it dinner, yes, it's nice weather, ideal for golfing but there's no one there, there are houses, there are people living. There's gravel, it's a nice lake, it's all beautiful, but it's not a golf course that's served as an explanation to make it happen. I think, then, Mr. Minister, that you can prevent this from better regulation of the conditions for such proceedings. There are some, however, objections that cannot be avoided, which is the fact that a new law is being drafted, if a new law is being prepared, it is really questionable why we are now making new rules that we will re-determine and determine for a while and not for a while, but practically immediately. Maybe if all this is about avoiding the criticism that it's about golf as exceptions to something else, for other interests. I don't know what a shame it would be to get out of this bill into general golf as an explanation or the possibility of turning forest land into something else. It can be said, so wait, it is so interesting economic, but then why in this law or at all in the debate does not mention the fact that forests are worth not because of water but because of wood and that practically Croatian forests have a monopoly position in Croatia, practically. Why aren't you thinking about it? Then maybe concessions for the management of the forest area. Well, that would be a good revenue outflow or something. I'm sorry, but now I'm naively suggesting because I think we should reject this argument that urgency is caused by the terrible loss of something. I see some investors showing up but they don't show up to make the state go well but to save their own somewhat invested capital, so... some I'm talking about. I think it is because in the making of a new law that it should be observed that the issue of golf and camping is not imposed because it is so sensitive and obviously it has been misused I think I should use this public debate to get maybe some other innovative solutions that would help better forest management because despite these thousands of quality and employees, the problem is economic, there is no competition, they have a binding monopoly of Croatian forests and in this matter we have to do something seems to me but changing isn't that parts of the forest are turning into building land no matter what we call it, throwing golf, organizing public debate I think is a good start.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74567	Thank you. We have two replicas, Nadia Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74568	Thank you very much. Dear Professor Kregar, you mentioned in your discussion the value of the forest by particularly apostrophe of the value of wood, so wood mass. So here is one very interesting data that I came up with in preparation for today's debate that says that wood mass in most Croatian forests is worth only about 1% of the total value of the forest if all its benefites are viewed cumulatively and are reduced under the common denominator of the common useful functions of the forest. So, if we start from that fact that the value of wood mass owned by the Republic of Croatia is estimated at several tens of billions of euros and if the few tens of billions of euros as I said were just 1% of the total value of our forests then it's not really hard to figure out how enormous is the wealth of the Croatian forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74569	My colleague Craiger's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74570	I thank you for the remark, she's good, but the bill isn't responsible for everyone. That would be true if we were selling that field, so now it's in nine one percent of the value. But for those of you who do wood work, that's all that matters. Ask sawmills or ask furniture manufacturers what their value is in the woods and how much difficulty they have to get quotas, get quality wood especially in some areas where the forests of quality wood and I know something about forestry by family. Because regardless of what it's worth so little, it's actually the most valuable thing it's got, because surely it's worth more to me than my heart, but if you take it out on your own.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74571	Ivan Shuker, replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74572	Thank you very much. So I've been keeping my mouth shut all day, and I've been listening, and your debate, my colleague Kregar, has just asked me to back up a few more things and facts. And why in Croatia we always have to invent hot water, so these golf courses are all over the world and it is clear that without these accompanying contents, no golf course can exist. You mentioned this here in Blato, we can get a little further down to Krasic's Cardinal, too start a project without what should have happened after, and that's a fact, that's true. And now I don't understand why we're always running away from these facts, that's what we're trying to cover up? To be clear, I wasn't very happy either, it's stupid to talk to that law before, but good, either way, it's over. Why is a different way of pushing the exact same thing without the clear rules of the game? Because if you're going into projects like this, it's not just golf courses. Do we want camps? How many at this time of the hotel and those who are state-owned and those who have been converted have no problem with the land they are on? Why? Well, because no political nomenclature in Croatia had enough political power to pass the Tourist Land Act. In this Law on Tourism Land, among other things, there are a bunch of camps to say or a bunch, however you will, on the Adriatic coast that are now in a very high category, but the status of the land has not been resolved. So we have something that we haven't solved, and now we're pushing something new, without any clear rules of the game, and there's no political bickering here, frankly, I would never sign any such a solution at the minister's place because tomorrow someone just takes it out of the context of time and space, here you are tomorrow under investigation, so you wash up as much as you want. Because the worst thing to do is to sign these undefined things and then when it's taken out of the context of time and space, it's really hard to defend itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74573	Answer, colleague Kregar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74574	I am sure that Mr. Minister, your political experience will be valuable and that he will not take responsibility for himself and leave every other profit to others. I also don't think that the problem in the camps, regardless of why you're warning why this isn't solved, and there really are a lot of camps, lawless, who use forest land illegally, but somehow I don't like this idea, let's now legalize everything to save ourselves because it's destroying trust... because it turns out to be a lot of stupid people who stick to rights and who respect norms. What is most important in your intervention, however, is the fact that there should now be some way to depoliticalise this debate, which is of course impossible, but cool down. We can't forget, of course, what happened to the golf idea and who it was, but this is no longer about repeating those ideas, and I don't think those parallels are quite correct. But it is also about the need to remove any possibility of remark or at least fear that will arise from the possibility of land allocation, construction, etc. in relation to the forest. And just in the end, of course golf courses require excellent infrastructure, but what's mentioned, in Austria golf courses are mostly worked on private land, but it's a little more expensive and then nobody does the construction problem because they're building land, and here the situation is different.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74575	We're continuing the debate. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. And he's a minister. Excuse me, colleague Anticevic, the minister has asked for 5 minutes. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74576	Thank you, dear Vice President. I had to react, thank the professor for an excellent and constructive debate, and I would really like to have heard a lot more of such constructive discussions today, not so much politics and hypocrisy. I'm sorry that my colleague Holly went out and I don't think she has any right to invoke and call for the reputation of us in the government of the Republic of Croatia, in the SDP, this should have been done by her earlier procedures while she was both a member of the government and a member of the SDP, not in this way collecting cheap political points by reading... certain NGOs that are not competent to call this law. One thing I just wanted to point out, and it's about article 27, a respected colleague asked about the possibility of non-payment, it's precisely prescribed by other legal provisions, and here we're talking about actually the Law on the organization of property, i.e. for the purpose of building infrastructure facilities. We're talking highways, roads, stripes, water lines, power lines. These facilities are able to exempt payment fees. No, no other investment or private investors. It's an existing law where we just called and made a connection with it, very clearly. There's one more thing I'd like to make up for, because I think maybe it's either not good enough, or it's deliberately twisted, and that's what my colleague Holly did. I didn't say we were working on a new law at all, I said there was a need to make a new law that would be in line with the directives and a new strategy for the forest, which is still working and will be done throughout '14. A year. This new law, which we're going to do, which really has to be a great law and have all the ingredients, then we're going to work at least a year and a half on it, and we can't wait for the next year, year and a half to the law. We've been working on this for months, and we've been working across the board, respecting all those interests, and above all, a large number of projects that stand by because of the narrow throats that have been created because of the inability or insufficient ability to make forest and forest land available. We speak 50%, almost 50% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We're talking about some units of local self-government where the settlements are all built, which are covered by the forest economic base. And then some of the mayors or mayors have problems when they need to start a project, technical documentation for road construction, water extension, sewerage, etc., they come up with two, three or five streets where people already live 10, 20, 30 years of forest economic base. In this way, and this according to spatial plans enables it to be singled out because it's really not a forest economic base. I'm not a golfer, I'm not a golfer, I'm not a golfer, I'm not a golfer, I'm not a golfer, but I've given myself a little effort and read a lot of information. Gentlemen, there are no fixed golf courses, golf courses you have in the desert, you have them and no water elements, there are very many water elements, there are no forests and growing areas, and we have golf courses where the area of the golf course is 80% of the forest. One of these is a great Arboratum in Slovenia. 80% of the golf course is a forest. And in this law we've made a proposal but you're ignoring this model of use with the right to build, we're talking about the most necessary facilities needed both in the construction of camps and in the golf course. We are not talking about the donation of land owned by the Republic of Croatia was that forest land or parts of the forest for the construction of such infrastructures. Almost 300 acres for projects is donated. I'm the first against it, and it seems to me that it was also the teacher's in one part of the presentation of fellow Holly, but I don't know what the connection and the way in which that golf course was built is to ensure that, in accordance with the spatial-planning documentation of the local self-government unit that they predicted it would allow it to be built there. Whether it will get a model of more tourist companies that will work together, whether it will be a public-private partnership of the unit of local self-government and with a potential investor or a clean strategic one, these are me models that can work. But here we allow projects to be implemented under rules that are strictly defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74577	Thank you. We have one replica. Two, colleague Kregar, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74578	And there's only one thing I'd like to complete. This is about how it can be prevented in some way from the impression that golf courses are just covers for residential construction. It can't be done in a classic way urban planning according to... and the percentage of construction, but it can be made by regulation criteria into the law to put which contents are taken into account in building on such sites, I think.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74579	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74580	Thank you. Very short. .... /The speaker turned off./... put or tied the same for the construction and possibility of building a golf course stands exactly what the subject of availability can refer to, to golf in the strictest sense. This does not include the apartmentisation, villas and the rest but the necessary infrastructure that can partly be found in this area. But once again, I am saying that the spatial-planned documentation of the local self-government unit is the one that will have to get a positive opinion from the resolution ministry from the professional services whether the procedure in the space can be done according to the planned spatial-planned documentation. It can be 90% or 95% on private land, on land owned by a unit of local self-government, and only 5 to 10% on forest land in the zone itself. I don't see any reason why we should hitchhike the project especially if it's already standing quite a number of years on hold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74581	Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74582	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, there's no golf course that can only be financed, there isn't. There's no math that can do that. The other thing is, when we talk about connecting the hotel, all the Istrian hotels connect and creating a golf course to make it like their added product in tourism, it's hardly going to be able to finance it. Why are we running away from the truth? It's known exactly how much an 18-hole playground costs, how much space there is, and you, if you don't make those elite facilities around, and obviously everybody wants it, is it very attractive places, that golf course can't be financed by itself. And there's no one to invest money in something where his money won't come back, there's no money. Because when you take how many players you can play on a golf course right now and let that game cost, let's say it doesn't matter a thousand kunas, 500 kuna doesn't matter how much, you'll see they can't collect more than a few thousand kunas a day, but how much it costs to keep it daily. Therefore, why should we want to do something if it is an added offer in Croatian tourism, then let it be said, we also need to know what is behind it. And make sure you can give someone land for the bad guys if you don't let him have these facilities, so elite fairies and all that stuff around here together, no one's gonna build it for you. After all, you have a series of offers for Croatia there from Proklan Lake further, but everywhere you have a condition to make the contents of those and those you will sell, where you will earn to return the investment. And that's a fact and you can't get away from it. Therefore, the danger of this law is because if only the golf course could finance itself then building golf would be no problem at all, none, nor would it bother anyone, not even ecologically.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74583	Thank you. Minister, you won't answer. Well, we'll keep nothing fellow Shucker's forest and forest land if no one's gonna build it. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74584	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. To remind ourselves not long ago, in 2013, we brought here in the Croatian Parliament a strategy on the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia and in this strategy is particularly mentioned, especially the important companies for providing public services especially in electricity, energy, transport, water management, forest management, mineral raw materials and other natural energy resources of oil, gas, thermal sources etc. and it is explicitly said that these companies will not be privatised, and that special management and special relations will also be passed specific laws that we are doing right now. So, not to repeat it is already too late and time, not to repeat everything that those who support this bill, which have high-quality proposals, are suggesting, in particular, transparency. But as well as those who criticize, even though we can't take away their right to do so, but they forget their Law on Golf Courses. They also forget the abolition of the criminal offence of the illegal exploitation of the mineral treasure. Then abolishing the crime of stealing the forest, so-called Forest theft. It also mysteriously disappeared from our criminal law. Therefore, they were preparatory actions that were allowed to be used for that purpose. You might think, it could have been dug without any problem sometimes where the penalty for harder forms was prevented, it was hard to do so, and then it was such a mineral treasure, most often a rock sold to the state. Is that a perversion? What's that even called? But what our crime professor said, don't expect such apologies, thieves are insolent. And it shows from day to day. That's what we have to count on. But what we have to organize and decide, so when the foreigners come, it'll all agree, so it says so you have forests, you have water, you have natural beauty, natural resources and you're not satisfied, you don't live well, you have a high unemployment rate, which would give me this, which would make me with that. And then we all admire them, their ideas. When it comes to ideas from all sides, they jump. First, they jump who were hunting in the mud until yesterday, so now they're the protectors of everything and everything, they jump many associations, sometimes with the right and sometimes not understanding the right thing. That is why it is important, with good law, to have this good communication and to explain to people what it means. How to place these natural resources, these properties, these natural resources, I say in a function for the purpose of hiring economic growth but also taking care of and keeping them safe, something called so whatever that means, sustainable development. In fact, development is only development if it's sustainable. Here we can remember, these are the known data that once European soil was covered by 80 to 90% of forests, today that percentage is reduced to only 33%. We've got a lot of forest coverage. Unfortunately, many forests are also devastated in different ways through laws, lawlessness and we have not protected them adequately or put them for economic growth and employment. That's something we expect from this bill. So I think it's a good concept, first of all it's a good thing that everyone commended is really going into second reading because in that strategy they say when it comes to such things then the general public must be well, well-acquainted. Not only is it clear to the proposer, which is clear to us who we may be supporting, but to be seen, to be heard to remove all misunderstandings. Because rightly, people, the widest public enjoyed stealing different ways. That imagination was never over. Therefore, it is necessary to explain what this means for the citizens. The good concept is, I like it, it's a good one control of local and central authorities especially when it's determined, no one can prevent it, it's an exclusive authority, its constitutional sending to the local community to determine what will be in its area, how it will draw its own spatial plans. But they also drew what was forest, where there was forest, they turned it into construction, there must be some kind of control, they were almost uncircumcised. Where it wasn't on the island of Brac, the owners burned their own forest so it could be built and it's a shame. And then we had God's long suspicions of certain diversions, and some neighbors came to us and fell in the heart of Croatia. They burned it themselves, and the owners burned it. And that's one faceless thing to put an end to. In such a way that anyone who dares to do so is mocking the state. In which country you can set fire to the forest even if it's your own. But on the other hand, there's something that, especially for us in the coast is called the forest, in nature it's listed forest and there's no forest from trace, there's no maquis anymore, it's almost a bloodbath and it's called forest. Man can't put his property in office because it's not allowed by the local self-government unit because she's got as much homework as she can in her area as she can be building, it's divided her own where she's agricultural, this soul hurts, there's olive trees, it's turned into building trees, especially on the island of Pag, but also in other areas. Even some people who had a '68 license. until she didn't even need permission because it was all legal in '68. Their houses suddenly came to the farm, such perversions were and their house was no longer legal since '68. is not in the building zone so that those who had forest and agricultural land might rest. Therefore, corruption of the worst types of spatial plans and manipulation of precisely those of the crops and of the culture that was on the land has experienced unprecedented proportions. And we can't talk about it here in general, but those who did it warn the authorities that the central government must do something but not by touching their own independence as well. So I think it's a good thing that there will then share the responsibility of the central and local authorities around these things, very sensitive things. They are not in themselves sensitive, they are sensitive with certain attempts they have made, fortunately they are largely not realised especially on the basis of what was being prepared by the Golf Act. I say, therefore, if this is well-communicated, if even better filters and bodies are found to decide on this at local and central level, we can achieve a satisfactory, not only pass the law, that people are satisfied but benefit from that law. Because the law does not only provide a good figure, that it is not a corruption law, that prevents such doubts, that is, such attempts and removes such suspicions, and that it enables economic activity. We must put our treasures into function of our own development. Let's not get carried away by letting some investors on the outside, it's all welcome, but we need to rely primarily on our own strengths and we only have what, if we know how, but in that we need to be persistent. We can see it's not easy. These objections about how it really is a fig leaf, and what we could then tell what it really was, I'm going to go back to that golf law not to go back to that past but to make so much difference, a specific one because this bill with the Golf Act has nothing to do with it or can have an association. Because the Golf Act, it was a unique golf law, no country had that in Europe, I mean even wider, special golf law. Have you ever heard the law about basketball or the law about any other sports? Where, which was counter-constitutional, I wrote this lawsuit, and here Bacic objectes to me that I did not read the Law on Golf Courses so that everyone who did not read it can read it within 60 seconds, there are 16 articles. The basic objection was precisely that it made it impossible for a precisely free competition and that it attacked on private property because the state had already divided, what could and then wanted to confiscate private property.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74585	Thank you. We've got a replica, so there's gonna be a chance. Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74586	My colleagues Ingrid, here's to this last piece of yours. The golf law, yes, it was, it was gone, but today we heard there's a new camp law going on. We've never heard that before, so the minister says it's possible. But we'll be back in 2009. We were talking about credibility today. You said then that it is amazing that the strategic interest of Croatia is building a golf course, not for example shipbuilding and workers. That's your statement. ... Yeah, yeah, that's what it says. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Making such laws the worst...... Bringing such laws is the worst form of corruption because they are legalized by robbery. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's what my colleague Stazic said. It is now part of the abduction of what remains of Croatia, land as its most valuable resource. That's what my colleague Stazic said. That's what you in Zadar said at the press conference and raised the people to their backs as they say. ... So I'm reading statements from that time, so it's about credibility of attitudes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74587	Comrade Antičević, listen and then you will have a chance to answer, please. Continue, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74588	It's about credibility when it comes to the law. Will you also build a golf course on an expropriated land or on land with the right of service? Golf course is a golf course, it will be made. Will the damage in that forest be equal to the exorcism or the right of service? Well, I mean, when he cuts down the woods, it's over. So you can't say today that you didn't say something in 2009, you did it, that law was abolished, and now you've suggested the same thing, and my colleague Holly has explained to you all what this is about. And that should be acknowledged, we should not run away from it because these decisions will eventually be observed in the way that they will be watched, and the citizens will either have or will not benefit from this. I don't believe in a big story about golf courses, about big camps, and I don't know what it's all about. We've already heard these stories, but there's nothing of strategic and important investment, unfortunately, but I'm afraid of what you announced, and today I mentioned an example, you're selling what's good and what can work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74589	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Antičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74590	I wish the camp law was passed because when you passed the Law on Tourist Land, you legalized the robbery of camps that were taken away from the people who were supposed to have returned land because it was not a purpose, and the camps were, they did not enter the basic capital, we have the case of Borik in Zadar, and then you suspended the Return Act taken away during the Yugoslav communist rule. So much for camps. Furthermore, as for the Law on Golf Courses, this is about that investor who only points any land, whether it's your own private, whether it's governmental, local self-government units, everyone has to stop and hand it over to him. So is that out of your mind, where is it here in this bill of law? Do you know that this land must have been at least 85 hectares, do you know that it had to have been carried out without any procedure, a special procedure on the authority which is the basis of this, and the Law of Ownership, of course, owned and bound by a constitutional category. Do you know how the Constitutional Court reacted then, do you know how he reacted? He did not react, but you found out what would happen, so you yourself changed the law that had 16 articles in 15 articles, so that the book would fall to two letters and two articles, that you changed this law before the elections. And why did you bring it, because of your donor, so everyone knows it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74591	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Peja Grbin, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74592	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Although I am not by the profession of a forestman like our esteemed Vice President who pointed out to us today during the debate certain very interesting things I have to admit, I have decided to deal with this law because in many of its elements it goes beyond what could be considered forest and forestry in a narrow sense. This law enters into the scope of its many elements and makes it available to state property and spatial planning, and therefore I think that they have the right to speak of those who are not foresters by profession. Before I move on to the content of this debate, I will say that I particularly welcome the fact that we will discuss the law in two readings because it allows us to deal with some things that were not the subject of this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Forests. I'll set two things aside here. The first thing is a proposal that I will suggest that we consider intervention in Article 53. The forest law and let's think about it, let's move those five years and say that the burned area can't be redeployed. Of course, such a provision would be too strict and that it would need certain adjustments. But I'm betting that we should really say move those five years and let's say who burned the forest can't redo it. Let's make some exceptions. If it is about the needs of the defence of the Republic of Croatia, if it is about building a infrastructure that is of national interest. But we can't redeploy the area of fire in general. In Istria, we were witnesses elsewhere. The woods are on fire so someone can build on them tomorrow. The next amendment is again based on something from the same, or a proposal to supplement the law. It relates to the availability and management of forests. In particular, we have a forest park in the town of Rovinj. Why would the park not be transferred to property, of course, with the restrictions on the availability of the later town of Rovinj with that forest or on the use of the town of Rovinj, which it can certainly do because it has money, it can be better maintained and managed by it than Croatian forests do. This is a very specific proposal. If the unit of local self-government is here, it can also be the city of Pula with regard to the Šijan forest or the town of Rovinj requires that it be granted the right of use. But then, under the strict supervision of the national authorities, the forest must maintain and improve, and the state will only control. Because the fact is that we, the citizens of Pula and Rovinj, know more and feel more connected than when we talk about state bodies. So much for what my court says should be getting into these changes, and so far it's not there. And of course what I'm going to talk about next is exactly what the media is about, but even today here in the debate is the most talked about and these are the two aspects. That's the one, I don't know how to call it controversial golf and camp, and that's these provisions relating to changes in spatial plans. Personally, I believe this law regulates a more rational process of changing spatial plans when they refer to forest land than it has ever been before. However, this law also contains provisions that exist in other laws concerning spatial arrangements and the adoption of spatial plans of exceptional security mechanisms that prevent any land manipulation. The spatial plan is not brought overnight. The process of adopting a spatial plan is long and painful. The city of Pula, for example, has been bringing its general urban plan for 8 years. Tens and dozens of authorisations and consent of the national authorities were carried out in the process of adopting this spatial plan. Two public hearings were held. At the second repeat public hearing, there were more than three hundred objections. So who can imagine that today at a time when any spatial plan is publicly available, who can imagine today that if not the bodies and then the public might miss manipulation. This law and this proposal guarantee that the manipulation of forest land in changing spatial plans will not be. However, they will be more transparent than they have ever been before, and will not be further complicated by the actions that would follow after the changes in spatial plans. And it certainly needs to be supported. And anyone who's been involved in changes to spatial plans knows that. The other thing is camps and golf. I'll start from the camps. I don't know which one of you camped, I did for years. And whenever I went to camp, I looked for a place under the tree. Of course, I didn't always get it and I wasn't happy when I didn't get it. But the camp and the forest are inextricably connected. There's no camp that's not in the woods. There is, but no one is going to that camp, and we have dozens and dozens of camps built 30 or 40 years ago, and they have to be brought to some more standards today if we want these camps to continue to achieve what their goal is, which is that tourists are coming to them and that citizens and communities benefit from them? So financial benefits, to preserve jobs, to preserve income from residence tax, from taxes made and the work of those people and the work of camps. This law solves something we've forgotten, so I'd say for 23 years. We're correcting it now and there's no manipulation. Because the forest land that was owned by the Republic of Croatia remains there. And of course I left sugar for the end, which is golf. I was against the Golf Act for one simple reason because he had nothing to do with golf, because it was about the Apartment Law that golf only used in his title so that his colleague Matušić would tell him about this law. But I'm going to say that about the Golf Act so that the name of golf is a fig leaf of what the Golf Act intends to achieve. There's no such thing here. Furthermore, the Golf Act we all forgot left golf as the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, defined that the construction of the golf course is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and automatically allowed the launch of the extradition procedure for anyone who wants to build a golf course. They also define that land prices will be ridiculously small, as well as agricultural ones. Of course, an investor would sell an apartment that would build on such a bought-out land would not sell the apartment as if it were agricultural land, though. The golf law provided investors with hyper-profits. Not the profit that every honest entrepreneur strives for and what profit we have to support because we are a market economy, it has enabled the profit that has been achieved in predatory capitalism. This law doesn't make it possible. This law provides for land owned by the Republic of Croatia that this land will not pass into the ownership of investors. It remains owned by the Republic of Croatia, and the investor gets what? The right to build. What I would like, even though we have it in the law, about the availability and management of state property, what I would like in this law, is perhaps to attach to this right of construction and specify certain clear deadlines on which it can be established. And to define when it comes to forests and when the right to build is based that it will be set a deadline. Whether it will be 33 or 50 years I leave it to agree, but I think that in this law there must be a concrete deadline that will limit this right of construction in order to ensure that exactly what the minister was saying is that golfing becomes an addition and an addition and improvement of Croatian tourism. Here, that's where I'll end up. And I'm going to say that this law should be supported, maybe even minimally corrected, but certainly this golf law thing has nothing to do with corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74593	Thank you, too. And in the last second, the replica of Gyurjitsumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74594	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. An esteemed colleague, as you have always stood up for some laws that have subsequently become controversial as well. So, you mentioned camps. I don't know if you've been before, you're still very young, so at a camp in Medulin, which really has that foresty part and the part that's not forest-grown and people like to come to that camp. I knew him 20 years ago, I know him now. So let's say in Selca when they planted olives it was some camp, so you have Biograd, Pakostane, etc. Of course, there are problems if these camps are in the woods and no one's saying it needs to be destroyed now, move away. And of course you have a categorization of these camps. Some have swimming pools like the one in Medulin now, some have accompanying facilities and it's all fine. But a fellow to speak so about that golf course law that was withdrawn, I have here it was withdrawn on October 28th, 2011 it came into effect. The truth is, you were against that golf law, we supported it. But here it was realized after a year that there could be a lot of good corrupt activity and the law was withdrawn. That's why no one's against golf for the dear God, no one's against it, especially against the camps. But what's camp, and what's going on on state land is that it's forest and okay, so it's going to stay for its own good. But he's already inside and built, he's got all the infrastructure, the water's now brought to the camphouse. You have different contents and it's normal and it needs to be insisted on. Today's tourists like to come to such camps, but they like to go to those wild camps where there's nothing. It's a big difference now. This law should thus be arranged through public debate, a broad public debate, and this is what Prof. Cregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74595	Comrade twilight, time. I'd like to camp out too where the forest camp is, if it was cold. A fellow coat of arms, a reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74596	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd rather camp out on the Stone Island, but I can't because it's Nature Park. If I want to camp, I'm going to camp. And yes, even though I'm from Visnjan, and by some definition we're not exactly friends with Medulin through Medulin I've been through and I've been to that camp, but also at Stoja, Pomer, Stupice, etc. I don't want to pick them up. By all these campers around us is what? The woods. It's forest land. And yes, all those campers were built, arranged in the '70s and '80s. But what happened in the meantime? Well, he's changed his standard. Tourists arriving in these campers will no longer be satisfied with the two pipes standing somewhere by the beach and defined as showers. Today, if we want high-quality camps with 3, 4 or 5 stars, with a recommendation from ADAC these camps must have a certain level. And to achieve that level, we must build something in them. And if that's not allowed, then we won't be able to do it, so it's best if we shut those camps down. And as for that golf law, you said it was withdrawn. So why was he withdrawn? Well, certainly not because he was good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74597	Thank you. And we move on. Damir Rilje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74598	Here you are, putting up with me in the end. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues who remained in the process of the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Forests, here are some of my personal thoughts. So, first of all, I welcome the decision that this law goes into two readings because it is an extremely important law that regulates the management of a significant space of interest for the Republic of Croatia and will certainly give the opportunity to react to the interested public. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia pays great attention to the forests because the forest fund is potentially one of Croatia's largest national treasures. We've heard several times that it covers almost 47% of the territory, 27 thousand square miles, and 95% of them are natural forests. Compared to the European forests of the forest in Croatia, they are in very good shape to point out in the Sustainable Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. Owned by the Republic of Croatia 78% of the total forest area and forest land, forests are the most complex system on earth. What makes forests irreplaceable for the protection and improvement of human environments is the fact that the general useful functions of forests that are vital to the maintenance of air, water and land as the most important components of the environment cannot be compensated by any technical means. The specificity of the forest is renewable natural wealth with 95% natural forests, Croatia's forests have a great beneficial impact on the environment has an exceptional advantage in European space. The specificity and management of forests represent the long-term long-term production cycle, their general useful and productive functions, the high time-frame between investment and the achievement of economic effects, greater investment needs than potential, unequal management conditions, and production performance in very large areas. The continuity of the management is ensured in the text of the Forest Act as it addresses the issue of ensuring the biological restoration of the forest, legally provided means for the general useful functions of the forest. On the basis of the compensation for the use of the general use of the forest function as well as the obligations of the State as the owner of the forest. Market principles in forestry as well as in other sectors of the economy must be expressed wherever possible because the state should not be permanently engaged in economic activities unless the need for the protection of general social interests is demonstrated. The Republic of Croatia is specific to the ownership structure of forests where national ones prevail, as I have said, forests, which allow legitimate intervention of the state at national level to provide additional resources for the biological restoration of the forest. And it is important to point out the Law on the Forests has established the general useful functions of the forest. This is to visit the protection of soil from erosion, water, wind, balance of water relations in landscapes, prevention of storms, high water waves, water purification, passing through forest soil, supply of underground streams, drinking water springs, more favourable impacts on climate and rural activity, air purification, impact on landscape beauty, the creation of well-known conditions for human health, security of space for rest and recreation, conditions for the development of ecological hunting and rural tourism, conservation of genofonds, forest trees and other types of forest biocenosis, conservation of biological diversity of the genofond, species, ecosystems and landscapes, support of general and special nature protection, national parks of forest landscapes, mitigation of the effects of greenhouse gases and other types of carbonic biocenosis, conservation of biological diversity of genofonds, species, species, ecosystems and local resources in the environment and environment. The proposed law, amendments and additions to the Forest Act shall cover primarily issues that regulate the demarcation of forests and or forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia and the forest economic area. Namely, forests and forest land declared by a spatial plan are separated from the forest economic area of the Republic of Croatia on the day of entry into force of the Space Plan which is included in the building area. These forests and forest land have been in the jurisdiction of the state administration authorities entrusted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the management, availability of state property and coordination, management, availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia. Of course, it is a priority to identify the public interest and the way in which it is determined. It also determines the possibility of building golf courses and campsites, which are provided for in the spatial plan in the forest and forest land, so that the same area is not included in the building area and remains in the forest economic area of the Republic of Croatia and the purpose is achieved by establishing the right of construction. This way of legalizing the construction of golf courses and campsites in the forest and forest land is currently an ideal model because it provides protection of forests and forest land with the possibility of achieving the purpose envisaged by the spatial plan and the realization of investment projects. This would significantly speed up the land-owned process of the Republic of Croatia and all for the purpose of attracting new investors with quality investment projects, which would imply increased economic activity and new employment. The proposed amendments to the laws allow individual forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia to be used by state administration authorities while individual bodies can be managed for the purpose of scientific research and scientific teaching activities, and only legal persons with the status of a public institution whose head is the founder of the Republic of Croatia and its scientific staff. I personally find several concerns in these proposals in the use of forest areas owned by the Republic of Croatia, so I would now cite them. Thus, the possibility of re-use into a building area through tourist areas of areas that could be planned for golf courses. I have nothing against them, but all tourist facilities and infrastructure facilities that involve intensive construction must be foreseen. Club spaces, infrastructure trails, villas, apartments, hotels and the like. It's inevitable just because of those stars that fellow Pedja just said along with the units of local self-government I hope. In addition, this is provided for by the Government Regulation on the establishment of the right of construction from 2013 and real estate services owned by the Republic of Croatia. This is how the bill actually creates a conditionally spoken forest economic building area. Secondly, the infrastructure needed is also necessary for the purpose of the functioning of the camps, so objectively this same building particle involves the construction of sales and infrastructure other facilities, also intensive construction. What about the so far areas managed by Croatian forests where there are no so far and which do not satisfy the construction of golf courses and camps. I believe it will allow for some economic activity such as testing, exploitation of mineral raw materials or some similar activities, but I hope again along with units of local self-government or their documents. I support just planting the relevant cultures of those areas that are so far free of so far, so olive groves, vineyards, similar to those that belong to the Croatian forests. I believe that, as so far, the reduced forest plant fund will be refurbished on a timely and continuous basis to keep or increase the plantation fund in the surrounding construction but to implement the plan to implement the protection of the forest fund within the eco-system. This is especially important for the burned areas as well. How ready we are to organise activities using these resources to develop economic activities that will enable economic growth and industrial development and the creation of new jobs, concrete development of the wood industry, with an emphasis on the competitiveness of products of higher technological levels and as little use of raw materials and semi-products for exports as possible, and how much use of such areas by local self-government as the law provides for the ability to manage by the state administration authority, and these areas are currently located in the areas of local self-government units. A large part of these areas, therefore, are not part of strategic projects even when they are not covered by forests, of course, and could be used for economic or social activities identified by spatial planning and development documents by local self-government. In principle, I support the law and I think it is necessary to ensure effective and economic management of forest space, but to keep it with dead capital, but it is certainly necessary and properly monitored to bring it into an economic function that will enable it, not only to increase jobs but also to create the new value that we need in our economic facilities, therefore not by bringing exactly that space into a situation where it would be worse than the existing one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74599	Thank you, too. This is what we're done with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. For today we will conclude, tomorrow we will continue with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Agricultural Support and Rural Development Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 624. Good night, till morning. I'll see you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-13-0.u74600	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Forest Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 620. The debate is closed. The government of the Republic of Croatia has withdrawn the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of this law, so I am voting on the next conclusion. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Forest Act is hereby adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. I'd like to make a statement on the proposed conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that the proposed conclusion has been reached by a majority vote of 79 votes in favour, 14 against and 7 abstentions.
