ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71289	Now we continue to work on the established agenda. It is next - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 603 Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You have received the proposal of the Law and in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate on the final draft law was carried out by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Economy. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Whether the applicant's representative wishes to give an introductory explanation. Yeah. Honored Allen Leveric, Deputy Minister of Economy. Here you go, deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71290	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The reason for the adoption of this law is to further improve the regulation of trade itself, which enables the development of trade in the Republic of Croatia with the coverage of the trade network as well as the functioning of the entire social community. For the purpose of simplifying business and the need to regulate existing forms of trade in inspection transactions, this law shall be revised material provisions in such a way that they are specified more clearly and more precisely in this factual, legal description. The reason for the adoption of this law is also related to the implementation of the reform measure by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the transformation of the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia and, in accordance with the Law on Construction, the work of the Ministry and other central authorities of the State Administration, the provisions of this law prescribe the inspection tasks of the State Inspectorate of the provisions of the Law on Trade to be carried out by the competent inspectors of the Ministry of Finance. In addition, this law has carried out harmonisation with the Penal Code in relation to the overlapping of the infringement provisions of the applicable Law on trade in the criminal offence of illicit trade and compliance with the provisions of the Criminal Code has been carried out in a way that is divided by the severity of the infringement itself and which has not been prescribed by the existing law. It is also important to highlight the legislator's intention to separate cases that do not result in trade bans, but for the same fines that will achieve the purpose of punishment, e.g. in the case of non-performing of working time or non-response of prominent working hours. In order to reduce administrative restrictions on the law in question, the Institute shall extend the establishment of a trade activity in such a way as to continue the activity of trade without issuing a new solution in accordance with the conditions for the operation of trade does not affect the issuing of an earlier solution in the fulfilment of conditions as well as the modification of the type of goods engaged in the activity of trade, provided that the conditions are laid down in the correct minimum technical and other conditions, and where food and goods are not dangerous to the life and health of humans and animals, as well as to the nature and the environment. This enables traders to start their business more easily and create new stores and jobs without additional financial burden and within a short period of time. It is important to stress that this law for the first time stipulates that the sealing measure of a sales facility will not be applied as comprehensively as it has been so far, but only in relation to the trade of that goods which have been found to violate the regulation itself, that is, if the trader was found to sell cigarettes or alcoholic beverages to minors, he will not be able to sell these goods further, but trade will be able to function, until now that was not the case. The newspaper of this law also refers to prescribing cases where the competent inspector will prohibit a legal or natural person from carrying out the activities of trade with a oral solution, and these are cases where it is necessary to take emergency measures to remove the immediate danger to human life and health. Therefore, in order to ensure... the pursuit of the activity of trade, the removal of unnecessary administrative barriers, faster and simpler adjustments to market change as well as the quality implementation of the supervision of this activity, and all for the purpose of further development and increasing competitiveness, the need for such a legal solution has just emerged. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall also have amendments to Article 3 supplementing Article 6, meaning that the reasons for Article 3 is deleted since the registration of registered forest owners as well as the applicable provisions of the Law on Forests and other sub-legal acts prove the origin of goods from forest owners on the basis of the prescribed documents by the bodies responsible for the area of forestry itself. Also, Article 25 will be deleted because it is necessary to delete Article 25 in accordance with this Article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71291	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have a replica of the respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71292	When it comes to trade, we see here in the light of the law that in total distribution trade they participate in the GDP with 10%. However, what is important is what we see at a small store and that is why I have talked to you about penalties before, we see it at a small store in Zagreb, Pula, Rijeka, etc. Every other business space is closed today, covered in paper, everything's on sale, people are closing. These results here must first and foremost be added to large companies, now based on EU recommendations, small traders clearly as everyone else should pay VAT on business premises. It raises the business space price by 25%, it's like if someone was paying by yesterday or paying 12 wars, now they're paying 15 jobs. No one has heard of that one problem, and I think we should talk about it too. The big ones write off everything, and the little ones or the little ones are being transferred and the extra penalty burden goes on, and I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71293	Replication response, dear Allen Leveric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71294	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Representative Cain, as I said at the beginning of my opening speech here is about reducing... administrative barriers, and also about penalties, penalties are defined according to certain criteria, so, as it used to be to seal the entire trade, today it is no longer so if in the segment of a particular commodity it is not a violation that we think is a relief for the trader himself. And as far as this part of you is concerned... it's not the Trade Act you're talking about, as far as I know, it's the VAT Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71295	Thank you very much. Do the presidents of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament want to present reports? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Đuro Popijač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71296	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues from the ministry and colleagues. So here we have an amendment to the Trade Act, Mr. Deputy has explained the key changes that are happening here. So, in addition to those harmonisations that were important after Croatia's accession to the EU, there have been some changes that we want to comment on and possibly ask for an additional explanation, and if possible, to insist on certain corrections if the government considers it possible. So first, we come across this division concerning the import of petroleum products and the arrangements of storage obligations in cases of retail sale and in cases of wholesale sale. So, when it comes to retailing here, it is said that no longer those conditions of earlier regulations need to be met when quality storage has to be ensured, storage facilities for further distribution, and when the source of derivatives from both the EU and EU countries, Turkey, but also from third countries. So we're talking about the retail part. At the same time, sales obligations remain when it comes to wholesale provision of storage capacity, adequate protection characteristics and all regulations and definitions, in order to prevent the entry of non-quality fuels from third countries into the Republic of Croatia. Now I'm simply asking this question, is it possible for one who deals in retail directly to bring the tanks from the Bosnian ship, to transfer it to any gas station in Croatia and not to be under these terms of the Regulations as it is worth wholesale? I just don't see what the difference is because here when it comes to wholesale, there's a need to prevent non-quality derivatives, and in retailing, obviously, that would be possible. Well, I'm sure there's some sort of quality and normal explanation for that. The questions of abolishing the State Inspectorate were also directly reflected in the area of inspection and jurisdiction in the area of trade, and we see that the Ministry of Finance is essentially fully taking over the most or almost everything. Jurisdictions relating to infringements of the provisions of this Trade Act. There's talk here of competent inspectors of the Ministry of Finance, we know that they have quite a few. So both the IRS and the Ministry of Finance and now Customs, and I believe that perhaps here we need to clarify which of these competent inspection bodies at the Ministry of Finance will be doing something based on these provisions of the law. I guess it's Customs because she lost the most of her role before Croatia joined the EU. Now what was most controversial to me and us, and the deputy explained here, and I must admit that we thanked for this intervention because we had important objections to this Article 3. which spoke about further administration in the transport of wood and all products in the wood-based range that stems from that part that is not in the jurisdiction of the State or the property of the State of the so-called forest-owner. We know that there are about 600,000 hectares of forest area in Croatia, which is privately owned and what has been mentioned so far in Article 3. It would indeed further complicate and unnecessarily select something that has already been incorporated into the rules and the forest law itself, and it is good that this is now and these amendments are being moved from this law. and it is absolutely necessary to ensure further control of the traffic of wood products whatever is written here in multimetrics and heating wood and unprocessed wood that it is possible to further work, and possibly in the Law on the Forests and rules on the handling of the takeover, in the distribution of traffic in those parts and to transfer and leave it as it has so far in the jurisdiction of the competent ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. As far as the OPGs are concerned, this makes it possible to sell in other spaces except those that have been defined on the doorstep so far. Of course, here it was not missed to say that in these cases, all those permits that could in the extreme line also have to be secured, knowing and knowing how the administration by certain local self-governments are working to make it difficult and make such an activity or such a desire for the OPG to sell its products elsewhere in those where this is now these changes of law and made possible. What is particularly relevant is the larger amount of change that are part of the sentence, in the part of the repression. In principle, it is not good to agree on any part and any inspection supervision, on the need to close any economic operator from the catering to the trading area or anything else. This generally does damage to the entrepreneur himself, and it does damage both the budget and the economy and society as a whole. And that should be minimised as much as possible. Here one key question is opened when possible if certain irregularities are identified, and these are the conditions when the facility is closed or stamped. And these solutions when an entrepreneur can in some way prevent it from paying 30 thousand kuna into the state budget and removing the above-mentioned shortcomings that the inspector has stated. A series of provisions that are infringing character and which speak of punishments follow. So now the question is whether these 30,000 kunas is some advance for possibly some next process in a misdemeanor process and why exactly 30,000 kunas and what it means, after all, is how that figure happened. So if I pay 30 thousand kuna, I guess I deal with the inspector, if I prove in a few days that I've cleared my shortcomings then I won't be stamped or closed for a certain period my business my small shop, shop or whatever. So this really requires an additional explanation. We appreciate the intention of going there in some way to meet those who carry out this activity but not the same 30,000 kunas, not to mention someone great... so there are plenty of them for us and for some small entrepreneur who has one shop and sells something and finds himself with some violation that the inspector appreciates according to this law that should be closed. 30,000 kuna is a serious traffic and a serious punishment for anyone who deals with small business. There should see whether it should remain so, which is the meaning of this provision and whether it is possible if and should stand to differentiate however some difference between small and large players in that area. General trade and we have seen and heard how much she actually has a large share in Croatia's economic life, how many over a hundred thousand people are employed. And all that happens with the Law of Trade, all the regulations, this is one of the most complex laws has one of the biggest chapters regarding criminal provisions. And all that's happening, what's changing has a huge impact and repercussion on a large number of people who are involved in this whole chain of trade from sources to consumers. And that's why it's a shame, too, that this has to go really well for some, in this orderly way, so the law by emergency procedure. In order to possibly make further clarifications, further changes could be made to reduce bureaucratic barriers, in order to improve the conditions in which these economies function and everything is here in, ultimately and in order to raise economic activities in the Republic of Croatia. So we expect to see the final text of the amendment to see if something changes in these other parts that we have found should be further commented, possibly improved. So here's the decision to take will be when the time comes, or at... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71297	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a few replicas. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71298	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, you mentioned that it's good that as far as the O.P.G. is concerned, except that they could sell on the doorstep so far, they'd be able to do it elsewhere. And I would be the first to warn about the OPG problem first to applaud that intention but I am obliged to warn in this place that the number is now already, hard to count and count how many have failed and ten OPGs fall each day so that unfortunately we could call those two types of those who have failed and those who will fail. And secondly, yesterday I was on, talking about the great possibilities of the OPG and yesterday I was at the presentation of the rural development measures programme and now that I have seen this order that needs to be adopted, this directive was now adopted in December. And now our programme of measures should go to harmonisation in the European Commission and while it all comes to life if, of course, the European Commission accepts it it will again be very much time so that I do not believe that there will be such great opportunities. However, if some decide to, for example, sell their products at a large shopping mall, let’s say that they set up some kind of stand, they will first come up with these problems that you said would have problems collecting necessary documentation. And secondly, imagine in those centers where the goods of whatever quality are imported with how competitive our OPG-ac can, of course, deal with these problems. So the situation, regardless of good intentions, isn't so great for the O.P.G. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71299	The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71300	Thank you very much, President. So I agree, therefore, that the OPG function in the economic reality in the circumstances as well as in our entire economy and especially in the area of agriculture, so where we see what a catastrophic situation has been after all these changes and operating conditions that have been significantly worsened over the last two years. However, here is every step towards improving these operating conditions, the opportunities to place their goods, the presentations are welcome. Knowing, of course, what problems they face when they come into the maze of administration by raising various permits that have been installed here and here that have to be provided at the end, it often comes to people giving up and that they do not have time at the end because here and says they are owners, they are bearers and they are also direct ones that produce these products in their fields, on their orchards, vineyards and wherever. So it's hard to assume some really big economic activity that someone's going to rush into big malls and open their stands and it's probably going to be hard to find space there because these centers of course have different interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71301	Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71302	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think a fellow drinker has been well-problemed by this 30 thousand kuna issue as a fixed amount that traders are obliged to pay to the state budget if they want to start working again after the measures have been said. I think that the promoter here should really explain the amount of 30 thousand kuna, why it is exactly the amount of 30 thousand kuna, which is the amount, because it is not a criminal penalty, because the infringement procedure would in that case be conducted and determined how much punishment it would be. Neither is the safeguard measure provided for in that provision through the Institute for the prohibition of the operation and fishing of an object nor the contractual penalty to be determined under the Law on Mandatory Relations. So the question is, what is it? This is how this is proposed in law indeed a great burden for retailers especially small traders, 30 thousand kuna is once and twice a month, the three-month traffic of a retailer. So the question is why is this amount without saying that it is practically in my opinion and unconstitutional because it limits the rights and freedoms of entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71303	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71304	Yes, thank you, Mr. President, you're a colleague of the law, but you've seen better what this is all about. And I think it's a good thing that we've also warned our colleagues to try to understand that, of course, and as far as possible, if such a measure is possible in some reasonable financial frameworks. And it is particularly important that you comment on whether there are legal preconditions and whether it is legal in relation to other laws that speak of the treatment and the manner of possible misdemeanors that entrepreneurs can do for this reason or for that reason. So I believe this debate will also contribute to the final solution proposed by the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71305	Honorable representative Nancy Tyrelli, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71306	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a fellow Drinker, on the trail of what fellow Oszbolt has to do with 30 thousand kunas, so to speak some parole. So pay up, keep working, if you don't pay, so you can't work, we're going into violation. Whether these 30,000 kunas are paid so there's no misdemeanor or criminal proceedings or these 30,000 kunas just to say blackmail so that we don't close the facility but that he can still work these few days. I think it's an extremely big problem and it needs to be elaborated to make it clear to everyone why these 30,000 kunas are being paid. And about these identified irregularities. We witnessed this summer that the facilities and the hotels were closed because these business entities or crafts were in debt to the state on the basis of taxes and contributions, so the facilities were sealed because of the debt, and what happens now? So I pay 30 thousand kuna if I have them, I can keep working. Did I remove the irregularities if I didn't pay my debt or didn't remove it? So I think we have an extra-large space that we have to define that everyone knows at all times why 30 thousand kunas are paid first, and another when they can or can't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71307	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71308	Thank you very much. Yes, fellow Members, I think that right around that item here the most polemics will open, but I would also remind you, you have said well that tax-debt hotels have been closed, but however, the catering facilities have been closed for the price of one coffee, so 8, 16 kuna, and that is why I also said that the general approach to going with such drastic measures, closing for a month or a week as it was, seems a double damage. So if someone committed a misdemeanor that they had left in the cash register of 8 kuna and therefore closed the cafe 6 kuna, so you can imagine what kind of inspector or someone did the damage, not the inspector, but just the legal solution, how much tax they lost because that catering facility didn't work for a week. And not to mention now all that was the subject and pauses where hundreds of millions of kunas are forgiven, and that still seems economical or I don't know how justified. So in different things, different cases, different interests obviously and different actions, it's also time to clarify these circumstances, and the circumstances to even it out once.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71309	Thank you, too. It is the Club of Representatives of the Independent List and the Honorable Representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71310	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The club of independent representatives in the Croatian Parliament will support these amendments to the laws on trade, but before that I would warn and perhaps start with the paraphrasing of a song "as the ship sinks, tones, we talk about the laws". This body makes laws, and we can't move forward. So the laws are necessary, it's a skeleton on which one society rests, but it's not enough just for a skeleton because it can be a scarecrow if it doesn't have the integrity of the organism. The late Vlado Gotovina, who was also a member of this House, often repeated that we all want Croatia, but that we still did not agree on the kind of Croatia we want. I think that we are still looking for the kind of Croatia we want because of the division in the Croatian Parliament and which is difficult to get consensus. I tried to determine in one syntax what kind of Croatia we want, it is a civil Croatia and it is an ethical Croatia. When I say civil Croatia, then I mean under that civic that it is democratic, that it is social and that it is a legal state. It seems to me that we have yet to be tasked with building exactly such a civil Croatia, a democratic, social and legal Croatia, but we have overcome another concept, that is, ethical Croatia. In my opinion, as far as I'm concerned, the events in our civilization are two fundamental problems of the civilization environment in which we live. It's lost is humanism, man's relationship to man, disturbed social relations, and we need to rehabilitate humanism as a way of life and ethical principles. Without ethical principles, no matter what laws they passed that were necessary, but in themselves without ethics and spirituality, they will not get us out of the crisis. The other is the problem of spirituality, so it's a problem of values that are civilizational events and we can't stop them by broom, we can stop them. If we don't change something in our heads, we're going to have a hard time changing the laws and business in trade, because people are working in trade, and even if that doesn't change in people's heads, it's going to be hard to change in the practice of trading any product in our society. [[Mr. Representative, come on. I understand your political agenda, but now it's on the agenda of the Trade Act.]] That's why one incident in the last few days when I didn't recognize one person I was a believer to. She said you didn't know me, so I went on a regular basis. But she changed her hair, changed her appearance. I say you can see it's easier to change something on your head than in your head. She agreed. It's also important for us to change things in our heads, so the store will go better, fairer, because this is how every step of the way you need to be afraid that you'll be deceived and played. Here's so much about the subject of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71311	Thank you very much. It is now up to Social Democratic Party Representatives' Club and Honorable Representative Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71312	I thank Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister with his associates. Here, let me say a few words on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Club about this law and why the Representatives Club will support it. To continue where my honorable predecessor left off, significantly and as an organised society, but trade is an important segment of that society, a very important segment of that society. All the branches of the economy are dynamic and dynamic today, everything around us is happening as fast as we don't want it, but the world is just a lot faster and it needs constant adaptation. If there is one economic activity where this process is particularly significant and fast, then it is trade in any case. So, in addition to this dynamic market characterized by trade here, we are especially mentioned in Croatia, therefore from independence, since the 1990s we have had the 1990s boom new, small trade, boom competitiveness in part and due to the release of the market, the other unfortunately significant part and because people in the industry in the processing industry were left out of work and trade was the only way out to actually survive. So that's the '90s. Then at the end of the '90s, there's a little stronger trade chains. We're also up to a variety of privatisations, but let's drop the story now. It's mostly about trade, with these big ones slowly doing business, which is then economical, so they take over these smaller ones. Then we come to the merger of strong competitors, and here are the last years by opening up the market now and the big ones are already swallowing big ones. Even some Croatian large swallow Croatian neighbours big. Therefore, rounding is simply a default variable and has a major impact on that side and I disagree with you, Mr. President. In one part, my previous ones spoke significantly about the subject. It has a significant impact on people's lives, of course. There's certainly protection of employees, rights of workers. As I prepared for this debate since I had first looked at the previous discussions in the House, we had very dynamic discussions about the previous Law on Trade. It was mainly about work on Sundays, overtime, work of inspection, etc. In fact, the main consideration about whether or not these things are written in the Labour Act. I think we've been through all these illnesses. And in any case, trade is a very important activity and the Law on Trade is very important. In recent times here is also due to the maintenance of liquidity, due to payment, because of a large amount of money, which is therefore very significant in Croatia. We are a tourist country based only on distribution trade. One of the predecessors said 10%. The percentage of GDP is growing significantly in the third quarter, growing because tourism is. Additional trade liberalisation is one of the main reasons, perhaps and most specifically European regulations. We also have constant consumer protection regulations, etc. etc. In general, I say 28% of companies in the Republic of Croatia are engaged in trade, 22% of employees deal in trade, and as I said, ten percent share only distribution stores. The last six, seven years that since 2008 we have had many, many changes. It's hard to follow this law, it's a lot and it's complicated. There was also a proposal on the Committee on Economy that some new interaction might be considered when new amendments and amendments to the law will be written and I say because of this dynamicity it will obviously be necessary. Maybe it would be good to write a new one, so... At the beginning of the Law of Trade just so that because of these, this large number of subjects and because of its complexity could be monitored much more easily. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But to return to the very law that changes in it, which is added. Most of what the leit motive of the whole story is, in fact, a kind of liberalisation, facilitating business in difficult and complex economic relations in a way that certain bureaucratic obstacles are collapsing. So, among other things, what has not been defined so far, and this is a convenient sale that gets, therefore, its definition, is limited to a maximum of 60 days and for the protection of the competition, etc. Direct sales are therefore equated with EU-based directives. In order to modernise, adapt, facilitate business, they said something about it and my predecessors. In some ways, it is possible to liberalise the trade of OPG family holdings in such a way as to allow them to be sold on stands and benches within shopping centres, within institutions, through distance sales, Internet stores, etc. etc. It also enables forest owners listed in the Register of Forestowners to sell forest products in other alternative ways. On the other hand, in order to preserve the competition match between associations, cooperatives, institutions and the like which sometimes carry out activities to carry out special trade, the obligation to come up with a solution for them is introduced. Therefore, their position on the market is equated. Around Article three of this law, we heard that the amendment is coming to the government and would not further spread about it, so it stays mainly in the zone of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. The provisions of trade in large transit have been deleted since transit implies that the transport of goods alone remains without retention, and the colleague of Popijac spoke of oil, so it remains an obligation of specially decorated and equipped storage facilities for imports of non-EU oil derivatives, hence, if it is from the BIA, the obligation remains and for EU members and the European Economic Area and the Republic of Trsk is deleted. Trade forms are added in a little bit outside of the existing forms, there are also sports facilities, there is compliance with the Law on the Restriction of Use of Tobacco Products, there is a certain harmonisation and therefore advertising of pornographic content. In this regard, perhaps colleague Lugaric will do more, so the advertising of pornographic content is deleted with this proposal. On the one hand, the system is debirocratised, so from the previous provision that the rules on this implementation of this law are adopted in accordance with various ministers, so it often bureaucratises production, it is found in my opinion a happier term and it would be good to pass it on to other frameworks, so in cooperation with the other ministry, it is understood that the Government has good, fast and effective cooperation without always being deberocratic. There are also articles due to the transformation of the State Inspectorate, so in other forms and the abolition of the State Office for Trade Policy that I am not talking about, therefore these are technical issues, especially the discussion of my predecessors was about Article 14 of this Act, in fact, the fully amended Article 68 of the applicable Trade Act which, in some way, defines fishing and liberalises on that side what has worked so far. So, that provision has so far stood in the existing Law itself, only the oral solution practically to the inspector was that which dealt with only fishing. Now within five days, it continues to actually open up the possibility that trade is going on and after that day with two conditions, so one of the conditions to remove all those, all those reasons why only fishing was done and another payment of 30 thousand kuna in the State budget. Is that... either forgiveness of sin is a happy solution or is not a happy solution to it there are reasons for and against it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is important to say is that this regulation has stood until now, and so far it has become such a provision that the object can be rescinded before the deadline on which it has been sealed is minimum 30 days, provided that a) meet the conditions, which are why it is, i.e. remove the conditions for the facility to be sealed and b) to pay 30 thousand kuna to the state budget. On the Committee on Economy there is this topic opened as most important we asked and asked that the Ministry of Economy, to inform us about how many such actions were carried out in the previous year and we received information that the fishing was carried out in 67 cases without it being carried out in 175 cases. that this fine of 30 thousand kuna has been paid out of total and on that side the state budget has earned a total of 5 and 250 thousand kuna. So the total year spent in the previous year was 242 if I did well with math. So, about every working day in the Republic of Croatia and you will agree that this measure is not very often used, and since there is a very wide range on the ground that inspectors on the ground can carry out this measure, I think it is very important how the instructions and the authority will now move to the Ministry of Finance in which way the Minister of Finance or the person who is already in charge will issue instructions for work, tomorrow inspectors, because it is very important that this sharp measure and I agree with my colleagues that it should be used exceptionally and that we must therefore see that it is used as rarely as possible. But on the other hand, of course, there is no need to deny the possibility of particularly serious violations so that we suspend the facilities and that these sides are preserved and the competition, suppress the gray economy and warn others at the end of the line that they do not. I said the provision existed before, and if it was debatable, then it is now somewhat less discriminatory if I can define it that way, since reduced criminal penalties, therefore from the criminal provisions, have therefore gone to misdemeanors and the penalties have been reduced by colleagues and colleagues. So so far, with criminal responsibility, let's say I don't know about work without minimum technical conditions and a similar penalty of 50-250 kuna. Now she's out of 5-300 thousand kunas and then if we avoid these 30 then that's pretty much what I'm saying we're narrowing down the space for the state to preserve the competition in good faith. To me, it is most discriminatory if I can say my personal name, I believe that a good part of you and agree with us, it is discriminatory that one market inspector and therefore I say it is very important to be clear on this side of the instructions and to give power to someone who may or may not be able to seal an object and on that side of a small entity whether it is to seal someone who has a million kuna of traffic or two, three thousand traffics give him a fine of 30 thousand kuna for how much corruption there is no control there, I leave to think about all of us obviously about this measure until we raise the level of awareness of responsible management on the one hand and the responsible carrying out of work until we become a more orderly country in terms of how much tool we may not need. In any case, as I said, simplifying business, adapting to real life is the light motive of this law, there were not many objections in the public debate, all two remarks you saw about this. They have received proposals for amending and supplementing laws and support from professional organisations such as the Chamber of Commerce, such as the Chamber of Commerce, and as I said once again, it is not burning again, perhaps at the next boarding school, perhaps in view of the dynamics and needs of harmonisation and for all other regulations and directives of the EU, perhaps for the sake of clarity, consider the next proposal to be a new law on trade, and then it will be easier for us all to follow the law ourselves and we will avoid certain misunderstandings that we may have, but it is easier for us, it is more important for these 28% of economic operators that have to do business and under this law. My colleagues and colleagues thank you for your attention, the SDP club will support this bill, and I would drink some water because my throat hurts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71313	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. Honorable representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71314	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, considering this bill on amendments and amendments to the law, I expected you to say something more about a pre-fashion settlement that certainly destroys our producers, and I will give you an example and expect your answer. When it comes to Puljanka d.d., she was blocked by Vindija and for days they did not pay their inflow into a jury account and thus made it impossible for our producers to collect their goods. And then there's a pre-emption deal and they unblock the bill, but what about those days that haven't paid off their daily income, whether it's Monday to Sunday, they've avoided it and I expect the state institutions to check it out. Where did this inflow go, and why didn't our producers who gave goods to large chains like Puljanka have the opportunity to charge their goods? That's our manufacturer's problem. We can talk today about the Trade Act, best even to protect traders, but the biggest problem is the manufacturer who gave the goods on the shelf, not who went with the objective of pre-fashion settlement and in fact avoided paying the product to the manufacturer. The puljanka with 215 million kunas was blocked, but I say, for days they avoided spending their money on a jury account.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71315	Replicate response, Honored Representative Igor Radjanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71316	Thank you, Mr. President. So, dear colleague Bubalo, in my work in this House, I work hard, and especially when I speak on behalf of the club, I try to speak primarily on the subject, and the topic is for us today, now here in the morning with two other discussions, amendments and additions to the Law on Trade, and I have really tried to show and explain what the advantages of these amendments and amendments to the law are and what may be the problems... of controversy that could bring the future. When you're talking about a pre-departure settlement, and then I have to answer your line, then I have to say that exactly indifference was early cancer, now a concrete example about the Puljanka I don't know, but the problem of paying, and especially in an activity where there's already so much money going on, indifference in Croats, since paying taxes, of course internal indifference among the subjects has reached, I don't know how much, 50 billion, 45 was the problem that we all looked at and watched about, and this government, so the Kukurik coalition has brought a series of bill proposals that allowed this individence to ease. Well, among other things, the obligation to pay up to 60 days, except... credit, etc. One significant part of the trade, I was talking about the dynamics of trade, one significant part of it was improved by foreign trade chains, unfortunately, with all the circumstances that are not good, some of the things about the business itself have brought something better, so foreign trade chains have introduced a culture of payments that unfortunately did not exist in previous years. And when we talk about a pre-nuptial settlement, and the story is about the same as the Insolvency Act. Do the bankruptcys that last 10, 15 years, and the creditors charge 3% to 5% are a better solution or try to make surplus settlements that we do, save a) jobs, b) save activity, c) save all those who have entered the business themselves? I think this is a far better solution with all the problems that are likely to be opened with individual pre-determined settlements, but in any case a better solution than the previous one. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71317	Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71318	Thank you, Mr. President. Kola Radjenović, I agree with you that we are a significant tourist country and tourism is a strategic branch and it would be ideal if we could sell this part of our products in this tourism and I would be the happiest to have it come to life, to connect green and blue Croatia. Unfortunately, it's not like that in reality, it works in a completely different way, but you've expressed hope that this liberalisation of OPG's business, that it will help significantly in that part, maybe in this part of the Internet, God give it a little bit more seriously, but as far as these stands are concerned, so that our farmers can set it up in malls, I'm not that big of an optimist for the reason that I'm holding in these malls a lot more likable those different teleopers we see and insurance, etc., all those in other ways. And now if this one of ours comes, let's say, and eco, let's say the production we see in the Western countries that often sells in some places, there's not exactly that kind of approach yet. And now if we add that to that, to our manufacturer who's going to have to deliver that stuff of his and then park there so he won't have the necessary documentation that he's going to have to have, and of course all that inspection surveillance, I'm not the big optimist in that part that he's going to be able to help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71319	Thank you, too. Replicate response, Honored Representative Igor Radjanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71320	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow, I share your grief that this blue, actually green, what do we say? The green-blue vertical actually horizontal has not functioned all these years, it is not regrettable but every direction in this is not only this law, but every other law, every direction in what I say common sense of each hit can understand with the country as we have and in Slavonia as we have in the sea as we have to do everything and through many other laws to try to create as many better channels as possible, and that this transversal is functioning and every law that goes in this direction I will support. So in my debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I also supported the changes that are going in that direction. So you're selling yourself even though you're quite skeptical about it, but you're selling yourself at malls and booths in a way that they're fully controlled as it is, and it takes one more space to open up. I don't know how many of you are staying in malls, how much we get together, we both belong to say more industrious representatives, so we stay here longer, so how long we get to shopping malls is a question, but there are some OPGs in Zagreb shopping centres that sell their products. I hope I'm doing well and here I'm going to try and ask them in the future if relief from this law will help them or help them. I pray it helps them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71321	Thank you, too. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71322	Dear fellow Radjenović, this argument regarding the payment of these 30,000 kunas as a condition for continuing the work that this provision is in other laws than in the Household Act, I don't think it's a good argument because everything that's bad should be changed or corrected and indeed these 30,000 kunas, which are listed by me at random before and now, don't have the same weight for a small trader as that big merchant and strong trader. Therefore, it is definitely entering the infringement zone of Article 54 here. The Constitution guaranteeing the right to work by conditioning payment of 30 thousand kuna by continuing to carry out its activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71323	Replicate reply, respected representative Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71324	Thank you, Mr. President. Is Mrs. Scare Ozbolt the same in my debate I said that I might not be the happiest with that solution, but on the other hand I said the arguments why he survives. I'm saying, we've been loosed from criminal to criminal sphere and we've loosened the level of those fines. We know how our courts work, you know it much better than we do, usually function unfortunately or fortunately on the lowest penalty. The lowest step was 50 grand, now the lowest step is 5 thousand, and the measure of 30 thousand kuna remains. It's a tax tax on a solution. I say I've expressed my concern that possibly I'm an inspector who's out of control alone on the ground can have that power to rip someone off here I'm going to choose that expression, 30 thousand kuna or not and what the possibility of control is. And I was pretty skeptical about it. But maybe I'm saying it's defusing you better, and I told you that data just to find out exactly how many times that measure's been made. So in the previous year 67 times it was actually carried out, I can't find the paper now, and I remembered... 67 times the fishing measure was actually carried out, and 175 times the subject, and by old law, took advantage of that possibility to pay 30 thousand kuna. So it's some I don't know 80 percent of those whose fishing measure was carried out took advantage of that possibility to get rid of those 30,000 kunas. I agree that we should think about it. The difficult or easy circumstance depends on which side you see this is not the only law that stands there, that this provision is in the Household Law where the violations are remembered much greater, and let us remember that some of our hosts unfortunately reported less than 1% of the traffic they are reporting today, and that then the 30 thousand kuna measure was unfortunately too small to obtain any effect. Maybe we should think about it and look at some international experience of graduation depending on the size of the subject, but in any case, if there was no reason for us to end this, there isn't even now. Thank you, Mr. President, for the second time in five seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71325	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71326	My colleague, you said that light motive is so you literally said responsible management, and yet in one other part you talked about the well-meaning of the state or I'm also talking about equality of conduct mainly in relation to pre-price settlements, etc. We remember from last year in the tourist season the closure of the ugly scenes of the sealing of the hotel in Senj and Pula when guests were expelled, driven literally as the Germans would say abschieung from the hotel and when the ugly scenes in the half tourist season visited Europe and all those who were going to come to the Republic of Croatia. Is this a light motive for responsible management, responsible management and responsible tax policy, and this Law on Trade fits in somewhat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71327	Replicate reply, respected representative Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71328	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, as I told your colleague, Bubalo, I'm trying to keep the case under discussion, and the subject of the discussion is the Law on Trade. Those seals you're talking about aren't based on this law, they're based on the Fiscalization Act. Similar provisions I say have the Household Act that objects can be stamped accordingly we need to see about it. But I agree with you that it's not the happiest solution and that it's not the best solution to seal an object, and then that this indigenity is not the best solution to forgive then, so it doesn't matter how things work. But unfortunately, you'll have to agree with me that this country really wasn't a country and that in a country where tax payments were so recreational or not a very big obligation for many to simply at some point, and fiscalization had to approach it drastically and sharply to send a message that the state was serious. The results of the fiscalisation of traffic that has helped me, 60, 70% higher than in previous years show that regardless of all measures there is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance Mr. Linic if you want to be right. The real question of where is that 60% of traffic, and it's billions of kuna, where did it end before? Why didn't it end in schools, hospitals, military, police, flood defenses, and all the other needs this country has and is crying for? Why again, some previous furniture did not want to do what they had to do and what they were paying for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71329	We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the HDSSB Club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71330	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry and colleagues and fellow representatives. I'll start at the end. So, I'm going to start with these 30,000 kunas and the amount to say payments that should be paid by companies and all those who deal with trade and then immediately and by removing the identified shortcomings, they can reopen their trade. It may actually be necessary to strip off this decision in some way that does not distinguish, does not differentiate large and small. So here we even have a proposal from the ruling Club that we should do so, that there should be a differentiation of large and small and the amount and fines of 30 thousand kunas but the legal proposal does not say so. It is similar, and this is what counterpart Radjenovic said, saying a great effect is being achieved with the overrun by the MUP in traffic violations. So whoever pays within three days can only pay half the fine and she's actually forgiven. Which is actually the goal of such measures. Or the legalisation that is being conducted today from the county and city construction offices and here is the newly established legalisation agency at the level of the Republic of Croatia. So as soon as I get to the money, as soon as I can fill up to tell the thirsty and hungry state register to buy cars like this in all the ministries and in the Government of the Republic of Croatia so there'll be money for that as well. Although leasing can be interrupted if there is a good will and none of the ministers talk about it. And leasing can be interrupted, completely neat, regular, normal. But we don't want to talk about lying or shopping, even if it's car shopping. Well, speaking of the Amendments and Supplements Act and Supplements Bills and Supplements, it would really be time for us to write a final legislative proposal when we have already entered the European Union and have now adapted everything to Europe, to European directives. Although Europe also complements its trade legislation in its course, we will, in future, follow these directives and decisions of the European Parliament, act in accordance with the European Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, etc. It is true that in the Republic of Croatia according to the number, the total number of registered legal persons operates 28% of economic operators in trade. And it is true that almost a quarter of all employees in the Republic of Croatia are employed there. And the share of the distribution trade in the GDP product is about 10%. Or that means translated in other words, because we very rarely have the chance to know what our GDP is about 35 billion dollars seems to me kuna. So that's where he turns to trade in the Republic of Croatia. In view of this figure, every legal act to be adopted is very important. What my colleague Milinkovic from this club says about the OPGs and does not say or forget to say and this is mentioned here in this law is I would say the Law on the Production and Trade of So alcoholic beverages in the Republic of Croatia. Slavonia, an agreement signed and all the Slavons slaughter, to say the slaughter law that only 50 liters of brandy of 16 cities or 40 degrees, so everything else belongs to the store, everything else above 50 liters belongs to the store. Therefore, with rigorous customs measures, customs duties are responsible for the control and boiler and production of brandy is a data that is disastrous for Slavonia. If one of the OPGs wants to put his brandy into production, so he has to report it, have a stamp, have a license and all that expensive cost, pay the excise charge, etc., and all that when you add up costs about 100 kuna for a litre of brandy of 16 kuna. So how much will he make if a liter of brandy of 16 builds 100 kuna? Production and administrative prices, i.e. amounts, which are summed up and amounted to around 100 kuna. Well, then 200 kuna for the fine, etc... That means he's not worth selling schnapps without 120, 130 kunas, and then no one's gonna buy it because it's too much price. That is what our people have negotiated with the European Union, and that is what keeps us down, and that is what continues in this Law on Trade, which simply prescribes how trade is handled and those that I say alcoholic derivatives, also applies. And in one small, small part of three rows, it says in connection with the sale of alcoholic beverages. It says in this legislative proposal to delete the definition of direct sales and introduce a new concept of appropriate sales. Therefore, the notion of direct sales is changed and the notion of appropriate sales is introduced. So it's really interesting to suggest that you, as a colleague of the OPGs say, so family farmers get the right to exhibit and sell at malls. In malls where imports are really everything and everything. I don't want to say garbage, but I'd say to many of the authorities and other bodies that we have when a man tastes that food that's offered in import trade chains, from different countries that are of different qualities, it's a real disaster compared to the quality of domestic products that, because of all of this, are probably, not likely but slightly more expensive, but given this crisis that we're in, the economic crisis, clearly every citizen wants to buy and if he can buy any cheaper goods and then he has to buy it too. He's forced. He's forced to buy it. In terms of oil and oil derivatives, biofuels, it is indeed this provision that remains simple that I would say acts on countries in an environment that are not members of the European Union almost has no effect. In fact, trade in large oil and oil products from countries not members of the European Union and the Republic of Turkey is prohibited, and I do not forget, therefore, the wholesale sale of these oil derivatives unless they have their warehouses in the Republic of Croatia. So what will the refinery in the Bosnian Ship store in the Republic of Croatia when 100 metres from the Sava River, so from the border with the Republic of Croatia and even in the Blue Refinery too. Why them at all? Oil producers in the Republic of Serbia, which is also along the border. Well, it doesn't matter, it doesn't have any effect, unless eventually some wholesaler with oil and oil derivatives from Norway, Finland or I don't know where Sweden wants to have a wholesale sale in the Republic of Croatia, then it would be for some warehouse, but here this wholesaler, it's said that the members of the European Union shouldn't have a warehouse. About wood and the sale of wood, as someone said in an alternative way, and in the Republic of Croatia we have 630 thousand hectares in the private-owned forest. There may be one or only one, but I will say another advantage that we have simplified the way wood and wood could be traded in a better way within the European Union. What is still more, apart from this tree, is only a positive relief, says the paper of this law is important that it refers to the fact that the current lack of working time or to the adherence to prominent working hours is no longer a reason to state the measure of banning the exercise of activity to a legal or physical person, since it is a minor violation of the rules. So if the booth we have in our villages or in some department store doesn't say working hours, that's not punishable. So even if someone is not present at that booth, and in the working hours that may have been reported, it is also not punishable. My friend paid me the labour inspector's fine because he didn't put the building material in storage at the entrance board at which the speed of the vehicle's movement inside the warehouse would be determined, which is 5 km away, so as much as that fork moves at the speed of the vehicle's laugh. He forgot to report it when he opened that warehouse and paid $10,000 fine, but good. This working time is about the same category as that traffic sign of 5 km, as if someone was going to take Formula 1 into the building material warehouse or go to racing in the building material warehouse, and the yard is 20 times 15. But good. Whether this legislative proposal on amendments and additions to the Trade Act will increase the total trade in the Republic of Croatia, whether it will improve trade and increase those amounts achieved in trade. So I'm afraid that these provisions are somewhat restrictive in that sense, so further imposing one administratively and that actually they don't mean much. It would mean a lot more to us if, at least in that future Labour Act, it were actually working under the new Labour Act. They work completely, on Sundays, Saturdays, saints, Fridays, were mothers, single mothers, anything, whether pregnant or not, they must do as the boss says. It would be all right if this work were respected if such overtime and paid, paid fair work and work above average working time in the Republic of Croatia, if it were fairly, as it is paid in Europe, then it would be totally fine. Whoever wants to sell their free time for good pay, let him do it. No problem. Everyone would work for good pay and overtime, no problem, but unfortunately in this new law, it's not, and neither is this Trade Act. So we had an O.P.G., I had oil, I had wood. And when we look at all together this legal proposal I think the HDSSB club is going to talk a little bit and consult and in connection with this 30 000 kuna criminal expedition that is even for everyone and which is actually nakeding the nature of this government. Pay as much as you pay, since then we'll sort it out, but fine by the legal means, sophisticated. This will be introduced into the Law of Trade, drop 30,000 kunas, pay half the fine to the MUP within three days, legalize a faster-better facility, pay the fines and everything else and fill the state budget, so you will be granted everything or at least a large share. And about that hotel because of the unpaid VAT in Senj and Pula, fishing, dramatic situations that have come up in the half tourist season, and if it could announce a pre-profit deal or somehow agree with people about Mirna and therefore the fish factory in Rovinj and the fish with the Mirnino vegetables that I love very much. That's what we're talking about today, and I won't do it anymore. Therefore, the HDSSB Club will be restrained in connection with this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71331	Thank you, too. No matter what, we have replicas. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71332	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, I agree with most of your debate, and since you mentioned me directly in one part of the debate about family, agricultural economies and that I did not mention the production of alcoholic beverages, that I had eventually forgotten. Of course I forgot. Well, you know my basic debate is milk. I always discuss milk, difficulties in milk production and healthy nutrition. As for milk, unfortunately, it's getting smaller. Let's testify to that. Maybe someone in my midst is producing some brandy, but I don't know. But it hasn't been healthy for a long time. And secondly, but you were talking in one part about legalization, so it's more of a stuck ear and it's clearly not really going to work. And now, in that sense, these agencies are going to need to be revived, and we know how it goes with the agencies. But there's still the same fundamental problem. It's good to have those high standards, good standards, thermal facades, but it's all too expensive and at this point it's not feasible. If we are also looking at this law as it has been resolved in Europe, then we should have seen each other very well in our neighborhood in Hungary. They shared so much for that, to that part of the hundred euros, still so much and over. And it's worth a lot of money. And here we are with this bitterness, the clients that we have where our pensioners have worked for generations, they have to create thirty thousand kunas to pay for such legalization. And it's simply inadmissible at this point in time for that population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71333	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71334	Yes, colleague, you said well when you are and if it isn't the subject of legalization of objects. But you can see that only in terms of recharging new consents are invented, new certificates than those of energy, and you can find cheaper energy consent for 990 kuna on the Black Egg. But I'm not advertising Black Egg, I'm advertising this carbon dioxide certificate. So that's also what it's all about, so I guess there's going to be a limit on the number of fruit trees, trees because they drop CO2 in the Krebs cycle of photosynthesis, so there's going to be a lot of plants in the yard because they drop CO2, but good. But when you talk about milk, that's your theme. So, you need to know and we need to know that Osijek-Baranja County is the largest dairy producer, not your Gola, so in Croatia. But these milk producers and those who buy milk are constantly imposing, so they control and report, so the villagers use the phone, even on the phone about the increased amount of aflatoxin in milk, and then regulate the purchase of milk as they will, and the peasant fails. That's a big problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71335	The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71336	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Grubisic. Here, I'll just look back on this O.P.G. sale. So here it's settled but it could have been the same individual OPGs that are registered have their products ready to produce. They could have sold at shopping malls, so the mall hall. And that's okay. There's just not one thing that's clear to me now that they're going to be subject to fiscalization. That means whether he's going to have fiscal cash or not. I can't read that from here. Certainly sales with a solution and minimum technical and hygiene conditions which must satisfy and, of course, so far in all the sales relating to fairs, convenient sales and the rest is good. I think that perhaps the bigger problem of selling OPG products that are ready, most of them are ready for the market is that entry into large distribution centres, large centres where they on their shelves to expose their product there must pay huge money. So you pay 80 to 10,000 kuna to get into some kind of center. I don't mean shopping malls, halls, but a store of some big to get a shelf and, of course, risked that eventually his goods that should be in the fridges don't keep everything on his. So it would be important to sort of solve the same thing. This is good, I mean. As for the alcohol you've been talking about, we've aligned this with the European Union, and I think that's okay. We must have control and manufacture and sell alcohol anyway. And even though there might have been some fear at first of which today there are no more big objections [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] on a 50 litre boiler and 100 kuna. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Everyone's already been very well in line with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71337	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71338	Thank you very much. My colleagues got very close by hiding the brandy, burying it, giving it to neighbors who don't have plums and no boilers, so I'm saving 50 liters, my son guarding 50 liters to neighbors who have a huge number of plums. That is how they complyd with these laws that stemmed from the agreement with the EU. There's a gentleman from the ministry laughing, too, 'cause that's how it really is. Furthermore, fiscal registers have increased revenues in trade, according to these fiscal ones, so they exist at the market by 25%. But there's something else you can't ask. Why they bounce off the fact that in lawyers, therefore private lawyers after the introduction of the policy and the fiscal register, so on their income eight percent was increased, very interesting. So here it's increased by 25%, to the green market to say, and with a lawyer only eight percent, obviously there's something hidden, they know what's hidden in the Ministry, I know it. But the data on increased VAT revenues after the introduction of fiscal, also knows Mrs. Skare-Ozbolt. So, as for the deal between some kind of department store and one of the O.P.G.s, it's back to the benefit of actually a department store. I'm an O.P.G.A. takes the risk, he takes over. There's no risk of a department store.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71339	There's a risk to a rakia keeper. Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71340	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, you warned about consumer protection, quality of goods, employees, but you did not seem to notice that the law says that a legal basis has been established within which employees and consumers are solely accounted for. So it is legally said that, and whether the answer to this question is whether employees and consumers are protected depends on the worldview, ethics and character of each individual, but what is common, man does, capital is the main factors of economic activity and production. But in the results of the work, they are nowhere near equal, and this in the modern world is the most expressed in trade. A lot of people have no right to work. Those who have the right to work, many of them do not have the right to pay. Of those who have the right to pay, many do not have the right to pay their wages. Those who have the right to pay their wages, many of them do not have the right to pay a decent man. And then everything shows that the work is getting worse and worse, but the capital is getting better, on the contrary, we come to an absolute especially in trade, absolute and paradoxical situations that even work endangers our own lives because it invests more than it gets through that miserable pay. And we are constantly talking about harmonising the legal framework with EU standards, so that we will work together with the EU, find me in Italy, Austria or Germany a shopping mall that works Saturdays until 23:00 or Sundays until 15. It doesn't exist. When we settle wages but profits are not harmonised, profits are more commercial in Croatia than in those countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71341	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71342	Thank you very much. My colleague Marić, I was also a witness that I was in Austria and on Saturdays there was a department store that worked only until 11 o'clock in our business, so you could only buy on Sundays, so it's not working, so this same department store that works on Sundays until 21 o'clock. Salary, what you have forgotten about pay or unemployment, you have forgotten the salary paid by some in bonuses, in bonuses, and therefore the same department store, so you can only buy in them, so in the team where your boss is, who's your boss, you can buy with him. You can't go to another department store for those same bonuses, so the bonuses have become a payment agent in the Republic of Croatia. It's illegal, that's right. And as for man, labor and capital, it was best described but these left ones forgot, Karl Marks, who wrote early papers in which he actually describes what Emil Zola described in his novel Germinal about thorn, black exploitation of workers, and to say, the work of Alice avangard working class by, exploiting what people say, they completely forgot, they are still in liberals and no longer know anything they do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71343	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71344	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here I would refer to the presentation of my colleague Grubisic and I would not agree with this new law or would be there for a divided opinion when it is said that he will again... Selling your goods in these big malls. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the question is how are they going to sell it in the halls if they already have such or similar goods on their shelves at the same time, so it comes in collapsing, so I, as the owner of the trade chain, bought the goods per hundred kuna and here I'm going to let the OPGs sell me 70 kunas in private and they're going to sell their goods which is ok. And I'm not going to sell mine, so how is that chain of commerce going to tell him that the OPGs have to sell their products in the halls that are good for the OPGs, but we're witnessing that we're just writing laws that are inconclusive, so I think this is going to happen, too, and it's not going to be enforceable. But I ask the question of what about that rural part of Croatia that does not have high trade chains, where they will sell their products. On the other hand, when we talk about wood mass or bio mass, then we have to leave it to the companies that deal with it. It is inconceivable today that Croatian forests establish their companies and they sell that mass and on the other hand, they do not have those who would produce and make like generation systems and today they do not have enough mass. On the other hand of the law, we just say the punishment is so great, the punishment is so great. We have destroyed with the penalties of our small economy and craftsmanship because when we receive a fine of 20 thousand kuna that man can no longer recover and that's what we keep saying, repression, repression, repression.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71345	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71346	Thank you very much. Comrade Lucic, here's the mention of rural areas. And I would say that those who are the most rural are the easternmost parts of Croatia, for example. Drenovci municipality and village in Drenovci municipality, from Strošinac and Đurić, Rats, etc. who, in their livestock production, do not really have or do not have a department store anywhere nearby. And now they drive pigs to Rijeka, so to those coastal cities where they think they'll achieve a higher price because it's bigger there because there's no production like that. Yeah, so they drive pigs, but on the highway A3 or the one to Rijeka, A1 I guess, they have to pay the toll, no vignette, no chance of making it easier for them to get that transport price. In addition, every county must report to a veterinary inspection when they drive the goods, each county to report. So, one of the more difficult circumstances that this country is not trying to help to facilitate this blue-green highway. And then when they get there, then actually when they add up the costs of transportation, fuel, oil, trucks, etc. About 3 pigs that weigh 200 kilos, one for transport and transport costs to, say, Rijeka or somewhere else, about Split not to talk. So little should we look at our people, our difficulties and their problems, and much less European directives and laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71347	Igor Radjenović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71348	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, in your debate among other things, the criticisms of this government and speaking of all other laws, you touched the truth of God and this law, and you said among other things that this law would not facilitate or improve trade in Croatia and that is why I did not hear any arguments beyond... borders. On the contrary, all the provisions of this law make it easier and better to trade, so you have replicas. I haven't seen, we can talk about whether that's enough, if it should make it even easier or better to trade, but I haven't seen a single restrictive provision of these amendments and the addition of the law in that direction. So you were mostly critical in that article 68 or Article 14 of these amendments and additions, about 30,000, so, if I remember correctly, you said that the intention of this government was to prevent and destroy, the mutilation of a small entrepreneur in that field. These provisions of these 30,000 kunas, that caution of sin, existed in previous laws, Mr. Grubisic, so these are frequent amendments to the laws in these past five years, you've been sitting in this assembly and you've passed these laws, I don't know if you've been in favour or against, but that provision has existed in the law. Now we make it easier, now on one side, so there is no mandatory fishing within 5 days, it can be sealed later than 30 days. And I'm saying, the criminal provisions that were far higher, were the fines of 50 grand falling to 5, here for the article, just for a second, for Article 70 to the fifth lowest sentence, from the penalty to the felony, and the minimum sentence from 50 to the 5, Article 71 to the 30th to the 4, Article 71a. from 20 to 3 minimum sentence, Article 71b. From 10 to 2, so they're shrinking in this respect, that 30 is a special measure left when you seal your place so you can bake it 30 days ago, that you have an economic interest in it. Of the 235 entrepreneurs who experienced the accident last year, 175 took advantage of the possibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71349	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71350	Thank you very much. Here's a fellow argument that you guys are totally minor to when you think it's not true what I said is completely negligible if you have the knowledge that your minister, Mr. Maras, has said that in two years, 4000 revolutions in the Republic of Croatia have disappeared from it most of the small shops and small merchants. Four thousand, remember that number and then you can say something. And besides, where is it in the countries of Western Europe big shopping houses work on Sundays? Tell me where, except in Croatia. And then you can talk, don't say it in your head in advance or just because I said something. Well, I've got to hit the counter. You don't have to, you don't have to, because the facts tell you loud and clear, your arguments are there. Your minister said it, not me. 4,000 crafts are closed in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71351	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HNS representative club, counterpart Petar Baranovic, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71352	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Deputy Associates. On behalf of the HNS Club, a few words about what this law adopts and what this intention of amending the Law on Trade actually symbolizes and means. Unfortunately, today we live in a country where trade and tertiary activity are the most dominant part of the national economy, we have destroyed the industry more or less, the rest of the former industry remain, agriculture has been in the coming trends for many years, in fact since the war and afterlife, and to this day most of the employees of those who have the privilege of working and receiving wages, such as they do for their jobs right in trade. For this reason, of course, the law has special meaning among Croatian laws, important for the Croatian economy. Its good or bad sides depend on the fate and existence of many people. It is a reflection of both political thinking and access to trade, access to large, medium and small and what we can at the beginning of this debate we at the HNS conclude that we are the thing of all these 20 years when it comes to creating a legal framework for entrepreneurship and trade, the thing we have led to absurdity. For the past 20 years, we have actually competed from the furniture in the Croatian Government's furniture, who will more complicated things, who will create more points... in the process of establishing new activities that can be and space for corruption, racketeering, creating additional costs, taking time and time is a resource that in the world of business means and costs. And here we finally have amendments and additions to the laws that go towards reducing administrative barriers, and thus saving time and reducing administrative costs, introducing some new opportunities for economic operators in Croatia not only for large ones but also for changing little thoughts about small ones, and that is what the HNS welcomes is that it is one of the fundamental components of our political programme and thinking. Finally, we began to return to the frames of a rational, logical, simple, cheaper, easier. For 20 years, we have created a climate in which every small or medium entrepreneur and craftsman, when mentioning the word politics, gets nervous stains. It is precisely among that population that not only are we in the legislative but also colleagues from the executive and state as institutions and as the symbol of the most unpopular. Why? Did we do things the other way around? HNS advocates the creation of a rule of law, for the functioning of the rule of law, for the protection of consumers but cannot accept the practice that prevailed in this country for 20 years, for example, that the State Inspectorate is only one lever to fill the budget, that very pragmatically and very incorrectly often in practice acts as follows, that it does not sanction one who is completely black, which is economically insignificant, unorganised, who works in some kind of chaos, but rather targets precisely those medium and small entrepreneurs who are in continuity of business, who pay huge taxes on their size and number of employees, who regularly pay salaries. Those who have an account with those are going, they are looking for hair in the egg, and they are being punished, and they have been beaten for 20 years. And then we wonder why the turns are closing, why the middle entrepreneurs fail? What's with the yellow tape? A brilliant solution in this law, no yellow ribbons for every thing, no yellow ribbons, no closing. You've committed a violation, for example, you've sold the children to a minor, you haven't figured it out well enough, the boy's 17 years old you bought cigarettes, you've made that failure, but you don't close the store, you pay the fine, the store works on. What my colleague Grubisic was saying is that today we have a day when we agree, the closing of the hotel in a way that the guests are expelled in the middle of the season. That rigor that comes out of the box of raids we must finally begin to suppress in this society. Liberalisation and facilitating business in the sale of timber, goods in the field of forestry, for commendation. The OPG absolutely commendable, one of the solutions is not a complete solution to the OPGs we know very well in this assembly how difficult this situation is, but one of the solutions to that. From my personal solution, I know that whoever controls in fishing or agriculture the complete process of fishing and raising summers, finishing products, placing in his own direction, this survives the one who gives a great deal. This is the subject of a monopoly that we must fight in this country and which so far has not been effectively fought by the Competition Protection Agency and institutions that should protect the citizens of this country, craftsmen and entrepreneurs. That's the facts. Surely not all OPGs will find a solution through this in their business, but they will be part of it, which will thus conclude the complete process from field to consumer and control the value of the goods as a whole. Today we have in large malls supermarkets selling fruits and vegetables exclusively from imports. I personally noticed that the other day by going to the cave as they say here in Zagreb. Why do we do this in a situation where, for example, this year, the record crop of apples in Croatia was when these apples were paid to people, first and second class, we are in a situation that the agricultural producer cannot simply sell its crop. Therefore, the HNS welcomes every effort by the legislator to make business easier, simpler, cheaper for craftsmen and entrepreneurs. 30,000 kunas someone mentioned it was the penalty that was predicted for the most severe violations of the law. What I also want to say in this debate, which is the truth about the Croatian economy and entrepreneurship, is that we have so far not had the practice of equal metering for everyone. We had a situation where yellow ribbons were in small shops. When did we have a situation that yellow ribbons were at big malls? When? Does anyone know? Maybe I didn't personally notice such a case, so it's my failure. I'd be glad to be introduced to such a situation in the replica by one of my colleagues over the past 20 years if someone had shut down a large supply chain. The issue of grading violations also in this law is a very good thing to think about, but it is also a matter of considering the amount of punishment for the offence committed. Is it practical is it realistic, is it logical, is it fair and is it sustainable that someone who commits daily traffic of three, four thousand kunas pays the same offense as some economic operator who does daily traffic in one 500 thousand kuna shift? That's how you pay the fine. Such is the punishment that is equal for him and for the least, the most vulnerable is paid the penalty and the violation of the law. These are the things we have to think about. Selling at a different price does not highlight the price in a small family shop on a corner that works 5.6,000 kunas all day long whether it has minimum margins, it cannot achieve margins that can achieve a large centre. To him is a terrible punishment, and to this there is no repulsion. Penalties are the thing that should be a behavioral correction, they are not used for destroying and beating they are used for rearranging and correcting the behaviour of economic operators, craftsmen and the greatest. Is that how we've worked so far? We didn't. We have brought the matter to absurdity, and therefore this law that has in its contents the elements of liberalisation for small, opening up new possibilities, reducing administrative barriers, simplifying the process, equivalence is for every praise. And the Croatian People's Party Club will support these amendments and supplement the law with the hope that the Ministry of Economy will consider what I have been using this debate for this speaker and that we will start to refer to what is real, what is really happening to this society, that we will start thinking about how to give the economy motives, restore confidence in politics, in its responsibility, rationality, thinking and good intentions. Ladies and gentlemen don't experience us like that anymore, people think of us as the ones who create the beating, let's give them a little bit of a change of perception so that the craftsmen and those who work, those who are brave enough and energetic enough to work in these times give them the chance to start seeing us as... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71353	A colleague of yours has caused 11 replicas. Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71354	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Baranovic, first of all, I would like to say that unfortunately this law will not solve anything, those crucial problems in Croatia, which is with this law we will, we will not solve anything but the least purchasing power of citizens. And that's why it's like this trade law was done. You said at the beginning of your presentation that trade in Croatia is a tertiary activity. Unfortunately, I have to say it's not primary and unfortunately it's true and it should be the other way around, it should be the primary production, and after well-designed production, workers would have paid, peasants would have income, and then that trade could take place under special, here are the conditions, maybe with some extenuating conditions. I'd come back the same way when you mentioned the Rural, so you see the problems are terribly big we don't have any strategy at all, we don't have here, I'll tell you first we don't have a strategy to develop agriculture. And in order to withdraw any funding from the European Union we must have strategies, there are no strategies in Croatia. Why? For incompetence. Why? That's what you have to ask yourself because you're with the ruling why the 4,000 turns closed, you know that and you've made some sense. Why the yellow ribbons on the crafts, why does FINA sit on someone who owes 1000 kuna and someone who is 13 million kuna and a friend is FINA just forget to sit on his accounts? Why? Well, that's the corruption of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71355	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71356	Dear colleagues of the twilight when we talk about corruption, then it's very corrupt for this government to impute everything that she's got as a finished system, boned up, sharpened in what's been happening to entrepreneurs, craftsmen, I've spoken in the context of 20 years, I've been so correct that I don't apostrophe for anyone's particular responsibility. So correct. But if we're going to look mathematically, you know, you're not doing very well with proportions. Since these same citizens, on their great regrets, have given your option all these years much more trust than others, and it has cost them. As regards tertiary, primary and secondary activities, I used professional terms and classification of activity in these core groups, trade is a tertiary activity and production cannot be primary. That's right. And whether any law can solve any problems that are complex, long-term, deeply rooted. It's not real. You know, the Bible is one of the books Western civilization is leaning on but it hasn't solved all the problems. So let alone one law or one amendment to the law as this House is unfortunately due to the dynamics of life, change, circumstances and difficulties in which we live solves the monthly tens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71357	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71358	Thank you very much, so here, I would refer to the presentation of my colleague Baranovic and, of course, I have no intention of speaking politically at all. The fact is, and what I said earlier is that exactly the criminal provisions that you were talking about are not appropriate and are not particularly suitable for small producers, for those people who do everything in criminal terms to shut them down and never to be in office again. These are indicators, above all, in my Požega-Slavon County because I'm just talking about things that have been happening. When I talked about the repressive measures of tax policy in the past, I am, of course, talking about it today. Because to close one catering facility because I don't know what's missing or some random non-payment we've done with these provisions and that's 20 thousand kunas destroyed that shopping or catering facility and I'm witnessing that one gentleman who happens to have seven children is basically us destroying his family. Why such repressive measures? Why not take measures that are far easier or not so financial? Because like I said, we destroyed a man with such a repressive measure. He doesn't have the opportunity to pay 20,000 kuna and we've destroyed his business permanently, and that's why we're destroying his family. He survived, there are no big incomes in such small trade crafts or catering shops, but imagine his seven children with a policy of repressive punishment there is no possibility for the future and the question is their survival. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71359	Thank you very much. But, buddy, nobody makes anyone break the law. ... For a violation of the law,... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Oh, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71360	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A fellow Lucic, seven children have no one by chance but let's put it aside, of course, it's a serious thing. What you've said, exactly the indications of these changes and additions, are indications that politics is considering changing access to these craftsmen and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Well, high sentences and beatings of craftsmen and entrepreneurs don't happen in the last three months or in the last three years or in the last six years. They are a relic of thinking from a former system where entrepreneurs and craftsmen are class enemies. That's how it was rooted in the mentality of our people. It remains rooted in the mentality of our people. I'm from a family that was a craftsman in that system and when I was 19, I opened the craft and I know what it looks like. And I agree with everyone in this debate who supports that punishment be brought up, that punishment corrects the behavior of entrepreneurs and craftsmen, that it makes them respect the law and that we have an equal meter towards large and small and that the inspectorate cannot function pragmatically. Yeah, this guy's got no money in his account, he's in debt, we're not even going to go to him, we've got nothing to charge. It's true about the functioning of the State Inspectorate in the last 20 years, and this one's been struggling, he's pedantic in business, he pays taxes, he pays his wages, we're gonna clock him, he's got 100,000 kuna in his account, let's shave his 40, he needs a monthly quota. It's not the functioning of an inspectorate to work on a shovel in a coal mine where you have to dig up so many tons, but it's to act properly, justly and in accordance with the laws, targeting its basic purpose, which is to reforesee, correct, correct, and not destroy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71361	Thank you. Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71362	Thank you very much. Comrade Baranovic, you spoke of excessive imports into the Republic of Croatia of agricultural goods. It is only a sign not of the Trade Act to be changed but of clear strategies, especially in agriculture. This clear strategy needs to have the Ministry of Agriculture when we talk about packages, sorters, refrigerators, but then also in the distribution channel. Because when our manufacturer wants to sell his goods, he has to pay the racket to get on the shelf, and when he sells that stuff, he gets a contract that pays not in 60 days, but in 180 days, and it usually goes counter-supply or compensation. These are our problems. And we also have foreign goods right in foreign trade chains. You were just talking about the yellow tape when some chain of commerce was closed. I was just talking about a girl who was blocked at one point, so she didn't pay her traffic on a jury account. There doesn't need a yellow ribbon, there needs handcuffs to cheat on just our producers who haven't been paid for the goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71363	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71364	Dear colleague Bubalo, the issue of foreign goods imports. We have accepted the norms of the free market, we have accepted this concept, we have entered the community of European countries and we cannot in a strict way, in breach of the fundamental postulates of the functioning of the common European market address the issue of our producers. But with these tactical moves that are part of the strategy, we can open up our people's ability to work simpler and cheaper, with more chances, with less beatings. When it comes to paying, yes, and that question has been answered well, I have opened it before you came to this assembly as a parliamentary representative for this speaker when it comes to paying farmers for goods on a large scale and that is a real problem, and I expect the institutions of this country to control how many invoices will be paid next time grain is raised, when the next time a sunflower is raised, the next time corn is raised. It is the responsibility of the state and the institution of the rule of law to act equally in all situations, and the question is, agriculture strategy is a question of survival not only of some regions in Croatia but also of the survival of the national economy. Let's not kid ourselves, the chips aren't reserved for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71365	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71366	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I agree with this last part of what you said to my colleague Baranovic and I didn't answer the line in the part where you called us to the line when you spoke about those breaking provisions. And I'm actually in favour of most of it and of where you were talking about the necessity of consumer protection, including the necessity and need of protection of craftsmen, craftsmen, and I think it's extremely important to stress that. But when it was the Turning Law, then the craftsmen made comments on the 9th page as I recall, none of them were respected. And you see, a Bavarian country is known in Germany that has such power that craftsmanship is simply the first place. I think it's also very important to know and be. But in the part where I disagree with you, that you said that agriculture has been in a downward trend for the past 20 years, you simply said the wartime, the aftermath. I mean, graphically speaking, it could be... something to say that kind of movement. Because we know, by introducing those operational programmes, many of our farmers have raised plantations, many of us have improved cattle production, increased production, and significant steps have taken place in this regard. But what's happened in the last two years, this is this downward path, a trend unremembered. And now these measures all of which are said to help from liberalisation so that the OPGs can produce, to buy here's a simple heifer for the production of milk. They're palitative measures, and you know what a palitative medicine means to a dying patient. That's the problem, and I'm afraid once that farm is broken, when it's destroyed, then even six reanimologists won't throw up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71367	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71368	Dear colleague Milinkovic, you know the truth about agriculture very well, and you and I could probably discuss agriculture with a few other representatives in this House by tomorrow morning. We were going to have a strategy at the beginning. Generally looking at trends has the oscillation of some, the oscillation of short-term ones in the past, but generally looking at us losing that battle and we need a turn, we need a return to optimism and the creation of new measures, a new approach but not only in Croatian politics but also in changing the mentality and way of thinking of Croatian farmers. We need a system change. You mentioned craftsmen. If you remember well when it was voted on by the new Law of Rotation, I'm against it. Enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71369	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71370	My colleague, the fundamental value of this bill, I think that is what all of us should be, that there is a fairer relationship, a fairer relationship, above all, towards the small ones. You've talked a lot about it, instructions and examples, especially pointing out exactly what would make it easier by this law for those small merchants not to close their stores if they made one minor mistake and had to pay the offense or punishment accordingly, but not so much as to endanger their entire business. You're asking one question here, I think you can jump into it too, because what makes small such small misdemeanors that seem great to them often, we've seen different situations in practice pay more to pay such penalties than to act in accordance with the law. However, I think that we should also jump in a way that, if someone does, will especially refer to these great ones on purpose, so it does not eliminate such an irregularity but rather it is better for him and it is more cost-effective to pay a lesser penalty, such a small punishment. If that were to happen again, so in one total, drastically punish him, and thus create an impression or message that everyone is obliged to obey the law. And there's something else I'd like to tell you. I think that applies to all of us here. So, only one malevolent, unfavorable man can make comments like this, can talk about who knows what other things, and when they were on occasion, so such small ones came several times. Nothing was forgiven them, while those loved ones, while it was fed up by our courts who could only issue suspension solutions because they only sued them when they were out of date.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71371	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71372	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues of Antičević-Marinović, I agree with what you have said and once again apostrophe that this law, these amendments and amendments to the law will not solve all irregularities, all illogicalities in the functioning of the Croatian economy or in the trade sector. But it's a start, it's a good signal for every praise. Its fundamental changes are positive and give us a chance to reverse what has been happening for the past 20 years, and this is a loss of confidence in politics, in the common sense of the most responsible people in this society, those who bear the greatest burden of responsibility, and that is us and executive power. And they also have to restore optimism. If we don't give people optimism back, if they don't see us doing too many things, just, concrete that make life easier for them, if they don't notice that we've changed the trend without going back, hope and trust we won't get out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71373	Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71374	Thank you. I would refer first to your remark that there are no yellow strips on these large centres, which may imply that these centres are privileged or in some way close to all the inspections that are responsible for their control or with the authorities who control these inspections. I think that construction is still fortunately quite amazing. However, I agree that the speculation of what can certainly be quite dangerous would be interrupted would be very good if the data were published whether the inspection of large trade chains were carried out, on how many occasions, and which had been identified irregularities and sanctions if there were. I would further refer to your observation that it is not the happiest or the best solution to pay the same criminal penalties by economic operators regardless of their economic power. That observation is causing my consent. In Scandinavian countries, for example, it is common for violations to be paid according to economic strength and natural and legal persons. It's certainly a model that we should use. Of course, we have a problem with Scandinavian countries, which there are competent institutions, misdemeanor courts have much better data on real economic strength, while with us these data are very often hidden and it may be somewhat resolute to prescribe even criminal responsibility, which is also a prescribed criminal responsibility in some cases for false testimony about their incomes, about their income, about their economic strength. 20, 30 of them may get away with it, but the one who gets caught giving false information needs to be properly and severely and legally punished, and I think that's the way to real application and these kind of institutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71375	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71376	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pandek, I'm glad you're getting along with my debate. And on the policy ratio at all levels against large and small, I will refer to a specific situation from my political career so far concerning the functioning of the city of Sibenik and shopping centres. In 2010, a regulation on the highest tariff for municipal contribution to construction of buildings in the Republic of Croatia was adopted and it was then prescribed that the maximum amount could be 135 kuna per metre cubic. That's when my colleague and I were assigned by the mayor, given that we had one tariff of 150 meters to coordinate the city's acts and we ran into the next situation. The citizens were charged 150 kuna per metre by cubic and malls in 45th, and we changed that, thank God. We raised them to a maximum and reduced the citizens to a temporary measure. You know what the coincidence was, our mandate opened the most shopping malls in the city of Sibenik because what I can do today at the store and how many years have passed since the trade malls have earned. It's not an absolute problem to pay them. The big ones took care of themselves. According to them, we must be correct, we must agree the laws in accordance with the Constitution, the positive practice of European space, but what we must deeply imagine in Croatian politics is how to save man and small in life and in the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71377	Mile Horvat replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71378	Thank you. I share your enthusiasm when you expect this legislative proposal to improve, above all, the position of the OPG, perhaps it is a formal legal and nomotechnically well-proposed legislative proposal. However, the essence of things says that the OPGs are today as colleagues have said in a very difficult situation. In fact, as long as the big mega markets are importing the last toothpick, there's no luck for the OPG. As long as the OPGs have to pay a high price to get to the shelf with their product, a slightly more attractive shelf because it doesn't matter which shelf his product will be on until then there's no luck for the OPG. Milk has been mentioned, so it is not healthy milk that does not buy from a farmer who buys food from a milk purchaser who has healthy milk and who does not, who has his own food, has sick milk. So it's kind of a bad logic and it's not going to change this law. The other thing, when we talked about penalties, as long as those little ones who try to survive are punished, if you don't, if you didn't apply for Zampa, you pay 50 grand kuna, if you get caught not being radioed, that little transgender reported it to Zampa. If you can't pay for your salary right now and you don't pay for it because you don't have traffic and you don't pay for it for two months, you pay 20 thousand kuna. If we see now that we've introduced some sort of 30 thousand kuna payment here, how do we expect this little merchant in one small middle to feed himself, to survive, to feed himself and perhaps some little girl who receives 1800 kuna wages from him? So that's an impossible thing. It also asks a formal legal question, the character of this cash payment. She's not a punishment anyway. She's neither criminal nor criminal. She's something that's made up, that's what's been written so far, and the bill that's supposed to be written doesn't mean it was good, and she has to think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71379	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71380	The fine of a respected fellow of 30, or a payment of 30 thousand kuna, as far as I know, is the relic of the law so far. It's not a new invention, it's being talked about. I agree with you, and I am in my statement on behalf of the HNS Club and pointed out that the level of penalties for certain offences must be appropriate to the severity of the offense and the real consequence of whoever committed the offence, whether it tangs it or not. It's not the same thing if 5 thousand kuna and 50 thousand kuna are going to pay a small craftsman or if you're going to put 50 thousand kunas in a large center and equal to 5 thousand kuna. A small craftsman hurts five thousand kunas, five thousand kunas a large center that does millions of daily and cashiers absolutely do not notice it, nor notice it, let alone correct their behavior and in that part you are right. And as for the OPG, the fact is that this is one step along the way of a lot of steps and that it gives a chance to one part of the owner and producer in the OPGs to change their business policy, that they may not consider on a small surface dealing with low-profit, low-value cultures, but that given the chance that they are given to sell their products, particularly fruit and vegetables, to change business policy and to circle and to keep the cycle under control from the moment they are in their fields until they charge the final customer. Those of my experience in fishing who in these 20 years as well as I have controlled themselves complete in the family business, the complete process, you survived. Those who gave wholesalers one scale and the sun never warmed up, that's a fact, and we're not going to change that with one amendment to the law, but we need to start changing approach and general policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71381	Nancy Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71382	Thank you. Here's my colleague Baranovic, I sign everything you said, and I stress that it's extremely dangerous for us to deal with this unequal treatment between small and large, similar and inadequate, and that this should finally end, but I would like one problem to be solved to the end, which is these 30,000 kunas. You said it was the highest punishment, it wasn't. In this law, the highest penalty is 300 thousand kunas, at least as much as I read and these 30,000 kunas that we've been arguing about all the time, I would call it a simple dictionary. So that was in the current law, and right now, when we have these amendments to the law, it would be good to delete that provision. So if I sell cigarettes to people under the age of 18, this law prescribes me a criminal sentence for a legal person of 5-300 thousand for a natural person, a craftsman of 4-70,000. So the inspectorate will punish me for selling cigarettes to people under the age of 18, but the same inspectorate, or my state, gives me the opportunity to pay 30 thousand kuna as a small craftsman in eight days, and if I get confirmation that I've paid those 30,000 kunas, they won't close my trades. Now that's the problem with this law. So the state is blackmailing me that if I don't pay for the racket, and I'm free to racket the state of 30 thousand kuna because I'm forgiven for the offense, I'm still bound by these misdemeanors. So, I'm paying 30 grand to be able to work uninterrupted and then I'm still paying depending on what they're setting me up at this border. So I suggest that this provision of 30 thousand kuna be deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71383	Thank you. Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71384	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Tyrelli, I don't think you've been listening very well to me. At no point did I claim that 30 thousand kuna was the highest penalty prescribed by this law. That's not what I said, but if it was necessary for you to come up with your own discussion so you could put things that way, I wouldn't go into it right now, but I'm glad you're getting along with me in everything else. When a laborer agrees with me so dominantly, these are rare days and my heart is very fond of me personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71385	Jozo Radosh, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71386	A colleague of Baranovic, there are entrepreneurs and people in Croatia who respect regulations and make sure that they pay all their obligations to the state, but there is a developed and very high culture of cheating and consumerism in Croatia, however, the countries. Under such conditions, it is very difficult to achieve the right measure to make it possible to comply with the rules, while at the same time punishing those who do not do their job properly. That measure is certainly not easy to find. This law respects the moment in which we are in favour of merchant entrepreneurs, facilitates business, reduces penalties, mitigates certain business conditions, but this law of course cannot do everything. As this law will be implemented, it depends on the inspection. It cannot be the inspector who does not punish the great, punishes the small, who does not punish those who resist, who are cruel, and punishes those who are obedient, this inspection cannot be a good inspection against it will be largely responsible if this good legal proposal gives results. But this culture of cheating that I was talking about to my colleague Baranovic, she rests on what we saw here today, which is the taking over of some fellow MPs to disrespect the laws of this country. So MPs who pass some laws and plead for their disrespect are the foundation of a culture of cheating in this Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71387	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71388	Dear fellow Radoš, I agree with you that we have put the cheating culture in this society for the past 20 years on pedestal. In this it is a key problem of the functioning of this state and no one will be reasonable, so neither am I speaking on behalf of the HNS Club, will be pawned, cannot be advocated for non-compliance with the law, but for a realistic approach, for justice, for a raid in conduct, for the creation of laws, and for the conduct of repressive institutions such as the Inspectorate, for that absolutely yes. Given the long-standing internship in private entrepreneurship and the fact that even today we are moving in private life in a mile of these people, I am responsibly saying that people who know this sector know that this is notorial truth, that in many cases we have had the practice of looking at who has and that the inspectorate is used as a way to charge the budget, that it goes to punish people who regularly pay salaries and that regulars pay taxes and contributions, which do serious work, to get taken off their account 30, 50 or 100. The real truth about the State Inspectorate is that at some point he was working on the norm as a coal mine miner. He had to charge that much. On the other hand, the notorious truth in Croatian politics and society is that idolatry has already reached the limits of madness and rational behavior. The fact is that the great in this society is not punished for their violations of the law, no one advocates being persecuted. They are the backbone of the Croatian economy today, and they are important when they do business by law, and they need to be given the most normal work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71389	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Time. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71390	A colleague of Baranović, words and you and your club about the culture of cheating. This country and this government, it's been a fraud for centuries that Plan 21 has deceived this people so much about the culture of cheating. So Plan 21, the 21st century has deceived this people maximum. And about the fact that trade is a territorial activity like you said, so sometimes tourism was a secondary or tertiary activity, it was by the way what you're doing, somewhere, in Aluminium Sibenik or I don't know where and by the way you're betraying rooms and it was secondary activity. Today all eyes are facing the tourist season in the Republic of Croatia, today is tourism, says strategic, and re-industrialisation and agriculture are today the primary goal of the Republic of Croatia. But tourism, first of all, is already quite developed, good, shows the results of recovery compared to prewar years, we know how much traffic there was before the war, and what it is today. You've also said a strange formula that a fine of 30 thousand kunas is if I'm well aware of the educational measure, so you kind of said. This education measure for the big and you say it's not some big scholarship, but for those four thousand that are closed to the OPGs, the 30,000 kuna is very, very expensive and high tuition and should make a distinction, it should make some difference, differentiation between those small and large because 30 thousand kunas for some kind of cafe or something means closing definitely, destruction actually. That's why I said this replica, and as far as this activity is concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71391	Well, as far as time's concerned, it's over. Thank you. Peter Baranovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71392	Col. Grubisic, this is a law of amendment and addition of the Law on Trade. The cafes and restaurants are not the subject of discussion today or the subject of these amendments and the addition of the law. Plan 21 is something that citizens will judge when the next parliamentary elections come. Over the next two years, it will be seen whether or not we have either partially or fully fulfilled it and to what extent we have possibly played the citizens' trust. And it's very careless from your position to use the term fraud, given that some frauds are dealt with specifically by the DORH, so there's no point in reminding ourselves of what microlocation fraud is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71393	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71394	It is up to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 603, the debate on the final text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please let us know who's up for it? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, by a majority of votes, 80 votes in favour and 36 votes in favour, we have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So I ask the representative of the proponent of the respected Deputy Minister of Economy, Allen Leveric, to explain the amendments. Amendment number one, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71395	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 3 is deleted as the basis of the entry into the register of forest owners, as well as the applicable provisions of the Law on Forests and other sublaws, prove the origin of goods in the forest of forest owners on the basis of the prescribed documents by the authorities responsible for the area of forestry.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71396	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 1. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment No. 1. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that amendment number one of the Governments of the Republic of Croatia has been adopted by 81 votes in favour, 33 votes against and one abstention, thus becoming an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 2. The Governments of the Republic of Croatia, the esteemed Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71397	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth In accordance with Amendment 1, Article 25 of the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade should be deleted, and in this respect no-technically supplementation should be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71398	I'm opening a debate on Amendment 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most, 82 votes in favour, 32 votes against, with one abstention, we have accepted Amendment number 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. It became an integral part of the final bill. Dear Deputy Minister, we still have amendments to the Legislative Committee. Amendment one, actually.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71399	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71400	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. And we have the amendment of the respected representative, Maria Lugarić, to Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71401	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71402	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 2 to Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71403	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71404	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 3 to Article 15
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71405	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71406	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. And Amendment number 4 to Article 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71407	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71408	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand, first to inform, thank you very much, for the adoption of this law requires most of the votes of all representatives of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. 76 votes to pass the proposal. Who's for please? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. Can we get a score? I find that most of the votes of 83 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 22 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade in the Text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71409	We move on to: - Final draft law amending the Law on electronic trade, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 605 Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, and their reports were received at the meeting. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Economy Minister Mr. Allen Leveric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71410	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. In view of the fact that the Law amending and supplementing the Law in the structure and division of the ministries and other central authorities of the State administration prescribed the termination of the work with the State Inspectorate and that the competent inspectors of the Ministry of Finance would carry out inspection tasks in respect of the implementation of the provisions of the Law on Electronic Trade were required in that part to carry out the very amendment in order to ensure that the legal conditions for the conduct of inspection supervision were ensured at the time, i.e. in order to ensure the continuity of the conduct of the activity in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71411	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Cain is not present. The club loses the right to debate on this wheel. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Dubravko Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71412	Dear Vice President, Mr. Deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am not going to repeat this introductory part that the Deputy Minister explained why it is going to change this law, only to say briefly that the SDP will support this change. However, this is a good opportunity to talk about electronic trade as a concept and at the same time about the protection of personal data as an important element and segment of electronic trade. Electronic trade actually has two aspects, an economical aspect that is important for every society especially in the time that comes, but at the same time no less is the aspect of the safety of e-consumption consumers who buy in the e-commerce system or in e-shops to call them that. Different statistics can be found on how many people today use electronic trade. The data is truly surprising, however, it can be pointed out that an increasing number of users enjoy the benefits of electronic trade. According to some statistics, 23% of consumers in Croatia use these shopping methods, while in Europe it is more. Some statistics say it's about 30, some that 45, however, is the fact that they are ahead in this system of citizens of the United States and part of Asia. What may be most important to note is that 90% of Internet users are willing to use the e-commerce system at some point, and this is actually an important indicator that can generate this economic growth or trade itself. But in order to achieve this, certain assumptions must also be made possible. According to some statistics, books, clothes, travel maps, electronics are still the most still being purchased in Croatia, and lately there has been a development and purchase of spectrum through e-commerce, which is one of the news that should certainly be supported. How much e-commerce has taken to the outside, especially in the U.S., are also saying that large trade chains are in growing problems and there is a trend in America and the closure of these trade chains precisely partly and for this reason the increasing growth of e-commerce. According to some estimates, e-commerce traffic could be $950 billion in 2013. Some estimate it's a lot more, but the figures are significant and large anyway. However, there are certain obstacles that prevent people from accessing e-commerce, above all, is trust, or mistrust that still exists in the processing of personal data via the Internet, and there are possible frauds, deliveries, harder sadness if something bad happens in that system, but these are all things that must be changed over time. I would just briefly look back on what electronic commerce is because it is a very broad term and refers to a wide range of activities. In its full meaning, e-commerce is actually a vital component of the entire economic system, and that is why this is an important segment of the economy. Electronic trade is defined as a process of purchase, sale or exchange of products, services or information via publicly available computer network, the Internet and offers a major reduction in costs and time of transactions. It's a classic definition that's actually talking about what it's supposed to be. And electronic trade in a narrow sense is defined as digital purchasing and selling and related transmission of products, services, information and money via a computer network. The development of e-commerce itself is, of course, related to the development of the Internet and it starts significantly in the 1970s and 1980s, but only with the development of TCPs, IP protocols, FTP systems and, of course, to the full extent of Internet development in the '90s, the introduction of these graphic interfaces slowly begins to grow and the importance of this e-commerce, i.e. Internet trade. From the very end, so at the end of the last millennium, there is actually a right to flood these business models that then develop trade in today's direction. It is important to stress that the customer is electronic, which is mostly connected via the Internet to the system of sellers and the transaction is executed directly, electronically in real time. So there's no big difference with classic shopping in the store because everything happens in real time, but it happens in one way to say it to the virtual world. According to all of the above, I have already mentioned earlier everything is actually going towards the development of e-commerce. And it's to expect that the values actually rise from year to year, from the achieved profits of traffic to year. Since most electronic trade applications take place via internet nothing, internet availability and its price, and the speed of the relationship has a direct impact on the application of electronic trade in the world and on our part. So it should be emphasized that in the whole process that we have called e-commerce perhaps the biggest role of the country itself is. It has the ability to encourage the development of new technologies and its application in real time and space such as the creation of broadband internet conditions, availability, fast internet for all citizens, not only Croatia but also Europe and the world, and there is a huge, huge area for growth. The countries themselves can, by their influence, encourage the achievement of technical, organisational, legal, infrastructure, security, financial assumptions for the comprehensive introduction of the Internet into the daily work and life of citizens and thus enable the growth and development of all segments of society. What is done in Croatia is this digital agenda that will allow for the integration of large resources that Croatia has in different systems of light lines, so both in the system of power lines and in the system of Croatian railways, highways, it should all be combined and allow our citizens to realise the possibility of using broadband internet in everyday life, it is not just television, it is not these television platforms, but it is primarily the provision of internet trade. We have recently discussed this digital agenda of Europe and, in fact, Europe, this is a fact, still a little late for America in certain segments because the Data Protection Act and all other legal frameworks governing electronic trade in Europe are quite strict, quite rigorous. It is precisely in the process and amending the law on the protection of personal data but it will not happen until mid-2016, and only then will the right conditions be met for e-commerce to be able to live properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71413	Thank you. Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71414	Thank you very much. Comrade Dubravko is certain that we are all adapting to new weather but also to electronic trade. However, it is precisely the powers that the market can sell through electronic trade that is what should be defined by the rules of conduct. 'Cause there's often a situation in that real-life store to pay for it, so the goods never come. We are often witnessing in the media that there have been such fraud in the Republic of Croatia, and it is precisely necessary to focus on these restrictions on who can trade and why. I remember a few years ago when we wanted a stock exchange, let's say we realized in Croatia then Shuker said we need a guarantee fund. Of course there are future contracts, etc., electronic payment types but this is something else but also important for our farmers' stock exchange producers. But more importantly, there are no frauds that we have in the field.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71415	The answer to the replica Dubravko Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71416	In fact, you have just listed one of the big, main reasons why e-commerce is not used to the extent that it could be used because there is still fear in the users that their card will be misused, that their data will be misused, that later someone else will take the money out of their account, that the goods they ordered will not be able to get, and if they do not get it, it will be very difficult to sue actually whoever is guilty in the whole process. These are all the problems we face not only in Croatia but elsewhere in Europe, because the fact is that there are many who are prone to fraud in this system. However, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, as well as the Ministry of Finance plus others, means that HACOM also deals with the regulation of this part of the market, will create a prerequisite for the use of electronic trade in Croatia. What is important to note is that all of us in the electronic store can be customers at the same time, but also sellers and this is a great advantage of this system and here we are witnessing that in Croatia there are a very large number of online shops, i.e. e-shops, and there are more and more of them. And I hope that through the quality of their work they will grow and trust Croatian citizens in using this way of buying.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71417	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Đuro Popiac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71418	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy with his colleagues. Now, of course, we can open discussions about electronic trade, and the colleague was mostly talking about what's going on here, what are the risks, which are eventually some possible measures to reduce these risks. However, here we have a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Electronic Trade, which only speaks of one single amendment, and this is the consequence of the abolition of the State Inspectorate that took place two months ago and it is important to say just a few words. We've been discussing this a lot on other topics, but here's actually strange and amazing that we still have laws coming to us over and over again that haven't been resolved because of the suspension of the inspectorates and the gap that's just appeared. We can see that the departments are trying to investigate that. As he comes along, there is a new and new amendment that then goes to regulate the powers that have disappeared by abolishing the State Inspectorate. And now, in these three laws that are on the agenda today, most of all, all that has been done so far by the State Inspectorate and the inspectors of the competent ministry, so the ministry that, who was previously in charge, we don't know, but now we know that the competent inspectors of the Ministry of Finance will have jurisdiction over this law. And in that previous law, we had the same definition that jurisdiction was taken over by the competent inspectors of the Ministry of Finance. That's when I commented that we don't actually know in this new and growing mega of the Ministry of Finance, which will be the competent inspectors. As far as I'm aware, there are four inspection services there: Customs Service, Tax Control, Financial Inspector, Budgetary Control, and we haven't seen, and maybe there's this, so some kind of internal organization regulation of the Ministry of Finance which now comes under the supervision of the inspection classes in one of those four, or maybe some new organisational solution will be agreed where some new inspection will appear in the Ministry of Finance for all living and dead. I don't know, of course, that it was necessary to find a place where everything that comes in the first wave was not obvious, where now, according to the Ministry of Finance, certain jurisdiction and over-indulgence will be directed, which the inspectors will do, which services within these four or some new ones, and why we see ourselves, and we have warned, why all of this has now been so complicated and how it doesn't work and how it doesn't work on the ground, here we can all evaluate it, especially those who care about these inspections. The other thing is the same question in which these competent inspections within the Ministry of Finance are now functioning, since we know that the gentleman who was the absolute ruler and emperor of the inspection services at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Shegon, has been resolved, has been appointed new I don't know, I don't remember seeing that information anywhere. Who manages it, who organizes and what part and who ends up doing it. This is certainly not a topic for colleagues sitting here from the Ministry of Economy, but the topic for the government is quite certain, but also for Mr. Linic's boss, which is now happening in the ministry in this area and in the jurisdiction of the inspectors' services, and not to mention the pre-profits themselves and what has been happening together, we have talked enough these days. So there's no dilemma, the law needs to be supported because it solves this chaotic state in each of these segments, but here we repeat the reasons and all the chaos of the situation that occurred after the abolition of the State Inspectorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71419	Thank you. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71420	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Leveric with his associates. Today it is fashionable, as it is said well in the material since they use English words and e-commerce. A growing number of those who use it in view of the growing number of those who use the Internet and computers that are becoming increasingly sold. But there's a growing number of people who've been cheated on by e-commerce. And we listen to, say, complaints, complaints from those who have been cheated through orders by e-commerce. What are the risks of trading on the Internet, let me put it this way in other words or e-commerce. The first thing you have on these pages is companies that don't actually exist or have enough credit or don't advertise the responsible person or his phone or his email to whom he might contact unless the conditions set out on the pages of that company are met via e-advertising. Second delivery. So there's been a fraud during the delivery of the goods that was ordered. So, order one, and the other comes to you. If that firm doesn't have enough quality and credit as a business entity, then you have a problem with the appeal in such a way of doing business. Third, it's usually declared to be a delivery of goods within 15 days, say, 15 days, 10 days. After that, you've got the goods coming in four months from now, the one you ordered. So it's a new way, a new kind of scam. And fourthly, the most important one is the way to pay. Very rarely when you have an e-trader you have a way of paying by taking, rather than asking you for an advance number of American cards which he can get as soon as you deliver it to you he takes it off your account. And then you have problems with both the quality of the goods and the delivery of the goods, but your money's off the American or any other card you own so I don't advertise the American card. And what are you going to do? Yeah, there's an inspection. Here and now it will be separated from the State Inspectorate in a special inspectorate at the Ministry of Finance and that is the job of that inspection to determine irregularities, fraud through this e-commerce. I hope that this legislative proposal, given the majority in the House, will be on Fridays as well as those 18 other legal proposals that the State Inspectorate has broken into to the number of 18 smaller inspectorates and that I won't have to count the MPs on this side of 76 as it was the last time they were missing and there were only 75. Perhaps Friday, however, there will be 76 of them to vote this law, regardless of what we were overall against, that the State Inspectorate is breaking down into such more small organisational forms and mainly because it is in the jurisdiction of the ministries of various, so this time this inspection, which refers to e-commerce, will be under the authority of the finance minister. So, the e-commerce to conclude is getting more and more waved, it's getting more and more waved in the way of trade, but the fraud seems to me much bigger and much larger. Some out of a bit of shame don't even want to say the way they cheated on them through this e-commerce because they're really thought to be in some kind of e-mail, that their trust and that their knowledge, the Internet and everyone else are played and they keep silent about it. He won't say, nor say, that e-commerce has been cheated on. Let's hope and wish good luck to the e-inspection in connection with e-commerce under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, and since we consider it a club that it was unnecessary to break up the State Inspectorate we won't be in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71421	Maria Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71422	Dear colleague, you have spoken of monitoring e-commerce, e-commerce, and possible problems in which consumers can come about e-commerce. It's important to understand that e-commerce is primarily a cross-border trade, I would even say over continental. So, when you look at our customers, the moss is ordered from either America or China. So what is at EU level between EU countries is still regulated and has certain instruments of protection. This is all that is in fact with us unfortunately still the biggest part of trade you cannot regulate our domestic legislation and there is another kind of prevention in consumer protection rather than as inspection services. Therefore, this is primarily about consumer education, etc. That inspection about what you were saying what if the goods that were ordered don't come in, etc. Or it's a different quality. I mean, there's no help from any national inspection, so neither does this one. He's got other kinds of help. However, it is important to say that this part of electronic trade should be developed in Croatia, that any kind of public debate, public speech that goes with express skepticism towards electronic trade, does not do primarily well for consumers, but also for the Croatian economy, because it is part of a trade that actually has the least part of one manipulative cost or I do not know what it is called more professionally and from which it can profit both producers and consumers. So, I wouldn't want to spread the skepticism about it. This is something that needs to be supported, which needs to be developed, protection mechanisms should be developed, but primarily consumer education. There very little can be done inspection services in view of all the cross-border character of electronic trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71423	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71424	Thank you very much. My colleague Lugarić, thank you for the supplement, actually complements my debate but you see the EU is a single area, a single market. So you can be fooled by both the Chinese and the French. So the Internet is broadly explained, not to say comprehensive. You have Internet advertising, you can access any Internet advertising with your laptop. It's an e-commerce. It's not a European trade. It is not an e-commerce of European trade but a global, general world trade and it would not have happened as many have been given a brick in a package, so instead of a mobile that you have paid dearly for it and hoping for a cheaper pass both for delivery and for the deadlines and for everything and for what is not there, that we will be on our market here and have as some other new, better quality than the products offered on our market and sold via the internet get the brick, as it happened already in practice with us in the Republic. That's what I've been talking about, and I don't think we should spread the skepticism, but it certainly spreads the skepticism of those who are thus deceived. They're spreading the skepticism and there's no need to ignore it. You don't have to ignore her. We need to tell it all here to the citizens, let them know what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71425	In an individual debate, a colleague, Davor Bernardić, participates, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71426	Dear Vice President, this is one of the most important topics Croatia currently has on the agenda for a very simple reason. When the children come to the Parliament, they ask, they ask the question, it was still before me, and when we welcomed them, does Croatia have any goal other than joining NATO and the EU? And this is the issue that was just triggered by Representative Grubisic, Don Ivan Grubisic, in his debate through redefining the new Croatian role in the EU and through that contribution Croatia is to make. So, unfortunately, Croatia has no idea what it wants to be. That's the current reality. While we wanted our country, we had an idea, while we wanted to join NATO, we had an idea, while we wanted to join the EU. We are now members of the EU and this is the idea and historical role Croatia has. And there is it right through that portfolio that the EU has granted itself to Croatia, which is a consumer protection portfolio. Through that resort, Croatia has been invited to change the world. Because when you change regulations, laws, protect citizens, the market of 500 million people, then you change the world. It is a market that is larger than the European market and a market that is definitely much more exposed to all kinds, I would say abuse, but on the other hand it is fully able to change faster and better, right through European institutions. And this is an opportunity for Croatia to change the world through consumer protection. And the European practice in electronic trade is such that this year traffic has been achieved, revenue from e-commerce over 180 billion euros. In Croatia, revenues by electronic trade are about 400m euros. In six months, the average Croat made 7 purchases and then spent 227 euros and the average European spent 544 euros in 13 purchases. 98% of internet users in Croatia are looking for the possibility of buying on-line, 80% of them buying which is very close to the European percentage of 87%. So, according to this data, we are the EU, and our portfolio, which Europe has given us, is exactly something where we can make our contribution because one of the main causes of electronic trade is security and mistrust, so no confidence in delivery within 24 hours, and therefore the EU has produced tons of documents, a report on competitiveness, how to reduce the costs of especially small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as consumer protection when it comes to the safety of the electronic trade interfaces themselves. Your e-commerce de facto today as a maintainer of service costs nothing but costs you as a user of uncertainty, costs you fees that are much bigger and in Croatia much bigger than in European countries, is not limited and costs you certain innovations that you are unable to introduce although there are legal bases for this. As far as security is concerned, it is a large area, which I think some European countries are and many more will give an answer, but as far as the commission is concerned, I need to say a few things here. So the Croatian commission when it comes to electronic trade at least in our interfaces is bigger by statistics than European, but in Europe, too, this topic is not defined. So let's be first and limit this particular story at EU level. Let's be leaders because for an Internet bank account, I'll only give you two examples that are just a field in the database you pay a certain amount of money to reflect an account although physically there's no cost, although you're just an employee processing and processing your own data. So, the employee not only is unnecessary but perhaps because of that transaction, he was fired, which is why he did not limit the transaction in electronic trade specifically when it comes to banking. Croatia can definitely give the initiative and then respond as the leader of the portfolio in the EU. The system of security and allomification, so people avoid paying things through cards, card business just because they're not sure that someone's following their money trail. So, the EU has a whole opportunity to create a framework to eliminate individual transactions, this is not about buying cars, this is not about buying ships, this is not about buying goods of great value, but how to eliminate purchases because when you enter the store with 200 kuna, the CNB confirms that with these 200 kunas you can buy any goods. Here you have to be able to buy goods with a card business and no trace for 200 kunas you bought because today one of the new professions is given to a scientist, so people who are actually dealing with establishing the data you buy cigarettes, what kind of drink you buy, what your political preferences are, I mean this is a serious threat to privacy. So Croatia has an opportunity through the EU to protect the privacy of EU citizens, Croatia is invited to do so, Croatia has a unique opportunity. It is through this agenda and through this platform because through this privacy, you can protect all citizens and the EU of Croatia and enable even more electronic trade to be more flexible and accessible. I'll give you just one example of how using a chip card that can be installed in smart phones, and part of that payment through the system is already implemented via a mobile, NFC chip. So if you don't want the minors to buy any goods, means a child less than 18 years old, give him a allowance on the NFC chip, so by cell phone, using a card, using a card used already in England, 20, 50 kuna. He can buy anything but cigarettes, alcohol and content that are prohibited for minors. Here is one way to prevent the sale directly to minors of the goods, prohibited goods of broad consumption, and that is where Croatia can be a leader. So this is the topic from which Croatia can change the world by changing Europe. Definitely an electronic store. It may sound a little funny, but unfortunately, we like to laugh and make fun of ourselves, and we are not aware enough that sometimes many things exactly that come from a small people like Croatian can be great things for mankind. Let's take a look, for example. all the inventions of Croatian inventors, Nikola Tesla, who is one of the greatest geniuses who has walked our country and I hope that the Parliament will also propose my initiative along with MPs Mirel Holy and Damir Kajin around the day of science Nikola Tesla. Here, this is one topic: electronic trade on which Croatia can change the world by changing the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71427	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71428	Thank you very much. This was an inspired talk by a young man full of faith in the future and in changing the world. And my colleague Bernardic, you see, we haven't been able to vote for two years, but to introduce an electronic vote into a Parliament that I would say that there are at least 151 of us in the world here, and then the children who come here wonder, "Jesus God, what are you still doing here?", then our Maric miscalculates it, sometimes not, in reality as to whom it pleases. What you were saying, I think we had some data from the same source, so I'm not going to repeat it now. Of course I agree with you that non-transparent data on these e-commerces, what may be important to us is that we do not have domestic e-commerce and what should be also quite important to emphasize, are that our domestic companies are being used by Internet trade somewhere 10%, it certainly writes there in those sources that we have together and now it is said that it is simply informational illiteracy, meaning entrepreneurs. I personally think that this data on the illiteracy of entrepreneurs is changing from day to day because more and more young people who are really informative and are using the Internet, but also that trade. And if she were still dangerous, of course, and that by this one law like you said, this law has one article, but I can tell you as a son, enjoy thinking that you're going to change the world with that article, unfortunately not. It would be good to, but unfortunately not.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71429	Replication response, Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71430	Well, some things will change without us, but we can have twice. There's one where we're gonna sit here and do nothing and the other where we're gonna try something. And I believe that the only right path is the one where something tries and I'll always believe it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71431	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71432	Thank you. Here I agree with the general idea and the thesis that you have presented even though the width of your debate has gone far beyond what the amendment and supplementation of this law is all about. He showed not ambition at all to deal with the problem of e-commerce in the Republic of Croatia but limited himself to just who would carry out that surveillance. I also agree with that message that it would be good for the promoters to think that the whole market is being regulated over and over again and better than it is regulated in the Republic of Croatia today because we are meeting when it comes to banks, these proposals that you have put forward ideas, they are feasible, they are feasible and feasible because we users, let electronic payments we note that in Croatia we can still pay some account in some shopping centres more cheaply than through e-banking, which is a pretty illogical phenomenon and why it happens I don't know, but it is right now in the Republic. I have an example of online purchase a few years ago when the product I bought from the United States disappeared after a few weeks and it was no longer there and in the final procedure it was found that he disappeared between the mail in Branimir and me. The one who sold it to me from the U.S. gave me back my money and erased the Republic of Croatia from the list of countries where they would continue to send shipments because it was cheaper for him to get rid of it than for his expense to pay for the failures of the country to which the product was sent. I mean, that's how it happened. There was no inspection. So that salesman who had nothing to do with me simply solved it that way. So we have serious problems, we have big Internet sellers who don't sell the product, but you have to call him, so he'll tell you if he has it on the lager, so when it comes, I think that market should really fix it, that it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71433	The reply to the replica Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71434	Here is a concrete proposal that Croatia must definitely think about one part as HACOM when it comes to regulation of the market precisely electronic trade, it will definitely be necessary. Otherwise you mentioned banking trade, I'm just going to say something, yes, this may be in one part of a bizarre change of law and the government can send whatever you want, but our task in Parliament is to initiate things that we think are right. Prevent the use of bank accounts, checking bank accounts by all EU citizens sent by the European Commission and preventing the European Parliament. So the task of the Croatian Parliament is that I see it as well as when a topic comes up that seems to have nothing to do with what it says today to impose this particular issue and this topic, and now is exactly an opportunity. And I believe that someone is listening and that very soon certain solutions will follow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71435	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71436	Dear fellow Bernardic, you were talking about consumer protection in trade, and it is important. But I find it even more important to protect ourselves from bombing commercials on private e-mails, on private phones, and we've all experienced it, and it's right now that consumers should be protected from this massive bombing that's in attendance every day. But I also think that the trade restrictions are necessary. You've spoken nicely, we have smart people, we don't need to doubt ourselves about the EU, and we certainly can adapt our software to protect our citizens and all EU citizens. It's important, and what's important is that the money trail is always visible, but we have a problem when the hell is gone, and the merchandise doesn't come, and it's been paid by e-mail.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71437	The reply to the replica Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71438	So here I think that as far as consumer protection is concerned, today this market is defined by certain laws but there is no other regulation but is relying on a citizen-police system which unfortunately does not work as in Switzerland, it is simply clear. So we don't have that culture that someone will report an irregularity, but they'll just fold their shoulders because they'll say ah in Croatia nothing can change anything. That's our problem. But 180 billion euros in EU trade, 400m euros in Croatia, it is only a small and small part of that income, but when it becomes a dominant cake of trade in the EU, believe that such a system of regulation will then be necessary, as a system of regulation of the banking sector is necessary, such as a system of regulation of the market for the telecommunications sector, as many other regulation systems are necessary. And exactly what I'm talking about here is that Croatia can be a leader through this regulation and a friendly country means a friendly country just for electronic trade and just for all new processes, especially because it has a commitment as a consumer protection commissioner to do it in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71439	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71440	Thank you very much. You spoke about those 180 billion euros in e-commerce, so the EU and 400 million euros in Croatia, and Croatia is 1% of the EU, so now calculate this 400m euro ratio and these 180m euros, and you will see that there is no such great distance between the EU and Croatia. In fact, I've been in discussions before when there was talk of electronic surveillance, etc. I was talking about the fact that we all live in one kind, so let's not be completely sarcastic now, the big girl, and that abuses, even by those who advertise, and by those who buy and by those who deliver through mail, as Col. Djurovic said, there is a possibility of manipulation and malfeasance on all sides. I really don't know how we used to live without e-commerce at all, how we survived in the '60s, '70s when we bought what we saw with our eyes, and now we look at our screens, laptops and everything else. It's very interesting that we've even lost our lives without e-commerce. This is not to say that there is no e-commerce as a good form of fast and cheaper delivery than there is any other form of trade. And the fact that Croatia has the brains and opportunities to change something, it is true, it is just not clear to me that the Europe that first introduced it, or America later and Europe, had not found the mechanisms so far, here we are waiting for Croatia to find and protect consumers from all possible ways of fraud, introduce various forms that would help our customers in e-commerce.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71441	Replication response, Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71442	So you know when the mechanism is introduced? Usually when it's late, when there's a problem. If they had also found mechanisms for regulation they would have introduced CDS regulation mechanisms for credit default swaps and unregulated markets this second... /The speaker speaks English./... means bond. So if they found that in time, they probably wouldn't have had a worldwide crisis. From America, yes. So that's what we're not, but that doesn't stop us from taking it one step at a time, even in front of the time step. Otherwise solo, an economic financier known was counting the model for the Soviet Union, then the Russians told him, the Soviet Union, that no technological innovation would actually do them any good. And as they can realistically through the increase in production reduction and the planning economy makes much more. So, in the Soviet Union, the concept of the '60s, the '70s was then thought it was actually the best concept, the time still showed that it wasn't. Therefore, Croatia should not only look at those things until there was no electronic trade but live in harmony and then before time because great knowledge, great intelligence and the potential of our people, here especially in the field of information. Even in the field of interest where we are globally competitive, this is a few professions in Croatia from electrical engineering, information, engineering, physics, mathematics, we are globally competitive. Some professions are simply more related to domestic laws, domestic law, but this where we are globally competitive we just need to use to achieve two goals. The first to lead in some things, in many of which, in many today, we lead, but that's less familiar, I'm going to remind myself of some industries. And the second is to stop those most educated young people from going out. Because if we lose them, we lose that global competence.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71443	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71444	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's nice to hear, fellow Bernardic, that you agree with your colleague Grubisic, not with Bor, but with this colleague, Ivan Grubisic, who, by the way, has been warned by the President of the Parliament that he missed the topic. But it's nice to hear you say that we now have a big European family that we have a 500 million market. 500 million and now I'm tied to that first item of the trade law I'm really looking forward to my peasant being able to sell pig now at Munich Electronic Trade, I'm looking forward to it. And I appreciate your thinking that you're advocating these modern technologies, all that can make an extremely valuable contribution. But what I'm saying is, it's an honor to these technologies, the Internet, chips, cards and technologies, but the basic message of money is no colleagues, that's the answer. And now you idealistics say we're going to change the world. You can't change the world. You have to save this first one to yourself. That's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71445	But only dreamers changed the world. Those who thought it could stay on the trade haven't changed the world. The reply to the replica Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71446	I've agreed with maybe Grubisic, I don't know how you've experienced it, but I've agreed most with you when we were together with the Chinese, a country that leads technological progress in the world. And definitely one of these technological developments will certainly not be able to sell pigs through electronic trade in Munich because pig is still a agricultural product and this is not part of the common European market. So the pig simply can't be sold, it's an agrarian product. So it's a product, a agricultural product, so it's not part of the common market. But the problem or chance of our peasant is that he doesn't have 100 of those than he can sell less. And we certainly don't have the illusions that Croatia will be able to impose itself as a big player on the international market because we big companies except for a few that question whether they're big for What is the question of whether they are big for the European Union level and we do not have them. [[- Good-bye. - Good-bye.]] But what we can impose as protectors of initiatives that come from mind and reason. From educated, it means from educational potential and on the other hand, political leverage. Because we have in the European Union and a political lever through consumer protection just to impose our agenda there, to impose our objectives as does every country that regularly presides the Council of Ministers. So that's our role, I'd dare say a chance. And it's up to us to use it. A common European agricultural policy, I do not have the illusion that we will change it, but we are invited to change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71447	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71448	Final draft law amending the Law on electronic trade, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 605. The debate on the text of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I ask by raising your hand to plead, but before that, once again a warning in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The adoption of this Act requires most votes from all representatives of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. 76 votes for the law to pass. Please raise your hand to state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? What's the score? I find that most of the votes of 87 votes in favour and 24 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending the Law on electronic trade in the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71449	We'll discuss it. - Final draft Act amending the Law on Electronic Signature, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 609; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You've received reports. On behalf of the proposer, Deputy Economy Minister Allen Leveric will explain the proposal. My colleagues and colleagues, since my colleague, Mr. Leveric, has duties this afternoon and has no minister and the only two of them can explain the laws, I suggest that we rationalize the time so that we can hear the opening statement before the break if we can agree so. ... Let's try, we've got something and we've got a report, we've got another dot. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71450	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. As in previous law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the establishment and division of the Ministry and other central bodies is prescribed to cease the work of the Inspectorate and that the jurisdiction of this Act will be carried out by the inspectors of the Ministry of Finance. It's the same explanation as in the previous law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71451	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71452	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Another about bizarre change and with such an important background for the lives of citizens and all those processes that we as a society will definitely not be able to stop, and we will be able to lead them if any will is shown for it. Because I will repeat again, Croatia is through its role since it has a European Consumer Protection Commissioner, since consumer protection is one of the key chapters and the whole of the European Union, European society, but also of the world society, definitely called on to change the world. So Croatia is invited through this small window to change the world. Electronic signature goes a lot more in the domain of security itself, protecting users primarily from themselves, abuse by users, and then on the other hand abuse by external shocks or malpractice attacks. I will just say that I wish I could join the European Citizens' Initiative, which has collected almost 2 million signatures for water, against privatising the water supply network, so that they can join it by electronic signature. I just wish that this initiative against privatization of the water supply network could be joined by electronic signature because I want to join 2 million Europeans who believe that water is not only life, but a resource without which humanity simply has no chance of success, for life and for maintenance. So, putting water into the status of public goods, protecting water supply, protecting the water supply network, the source is something that must remain a permanent stock precisely and protecting consumers through the lever that Croatia has, through the lever that Europe has, but not only through what is much, much more important than that, and that is water as a means of life. And that's why I wish I could join this initiative today by electronic signature, unfortunately I can't join. Unfortunately, only FINA certified issues digital certificates that cost 50 or 20 kuna, respectively. It raises the question of how much it will cost us an electronic identity card that, as it seems now, could cost more than a normal ID card. But I would really like the documents and procedures in public administrations to be collated by electronic signatures, to first protect against the level of users themselves and those and abuses of users or those who might abuse it from their immediate environment and others, those who attack such sensitive systems. So I'd like to, for example. that the City of Zagreb should definitely be the leader of these processes in the Republic of Croatia through electronic signature from office to office and the City of Zagreb. Unfortunately, it's not today. I'd like the State Department to do the same. It's an opportunity to do it, just to document, to process through electronic signature. I want to hand over all the papers as a citizen by clicking on the mouse and follow the complete subject from beginning to end, without having to cross my home threshold or job threshold. It's a wish that's not unfounded, it's just something that's quite expendable. And yet again, Croatia has one of the few countries right through the protection of consumers an opportunity to impose rhythm on the European Union and to take all those steps that are necessary to protect its citizens. I'm just going to say for the end that the necessity of this amendment to the law is something that is reasonable to support, the question should have come before. But what I would like as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, as well as citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to be able to use the right of electronic signature in public authorities. So the electronic signature for the purpose of issuing an electronic account and other things is already in circulation, and that is one of the commendable things that this government has made possible in 2011 by changing and removing barriers to electronic business, which also includes the growth of electronic business. But what is important is that through the instrument of electronic signature, it is precisely possible for two things to be made in Croatia, to be cut down from one side of bureaucracy and to cut down corruption. Because electronic signature, information means cutting red tape and cutting corruption. This is the task of Croatia, putting everything on the Internet, informing everything and thus reducing corruption, increasing transparency and increasing the efficiency of the public administration system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71453	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Đuro Popiac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71454	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'll listen to your appeal for rationality. So here's the same thing, I can actually repeat what I said about the State Inspectorate itself. So I would really like to limit myself to the subject of the law and troublesome once again and the time in which these changes take place, so two months after the abolition of the State Inspectorate itself, new changes are still coming where the remains and needs to be found to ensure that what has not been defined so far are prescribed and that the offices of the authorities of the new state bodies are regulated. And even in this law, we get one set of commitments from the Ministry of Finance in the area of inspection, and this really raises the question in which part of the Ministry of Finance is going to be carried out by those four that I mentioned the inspection services that exist today at the Ministry of Finance, and that and what part of the Ministry of Finance here will be overseeing and protecting intellectual property, for example, what has been the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate. However, this remains a question for the finance minister and now no longer his resolved boss of all inspectorates at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Shegon. And we see that it seems to me that there is no new appointment. And as for the very electronic signature and what this government has done or done. I would remind my young colleague Bernardic, and he can't remember that because he was still young in 1998, a colleague will remember that, and here we come from a common former system was implemented the first exchange of financial documents by implementing electronic signatures where we both here are ladies and I personally participated in a little reminder. So it was the Department of Payments and transaction in the national clinical system where they are still here today in the application of those solutions where interbank transactions are exchanged by digital signature. And there's been a fellow digital electronic signature certificater for 12, 14 years now. However, why you are rightly warning me today. We do not exchange all documents and all that might be done with regard to the attitude of citizens to the state regarding the relationship of entrepreneurs to the state and the state towards the whole society. This is the question of exactly the eternal question of how many administrations in essence and at all levels from the state to local self-government and other bodies want to implement such changes quickly because there is often an attitude or opinion that these ways of communication towards citizens end their precious jobs. This is because here we really want to rationalise the time this law applies to only changes as regards the State Inspectorate and the transfer of powers to other ministries. It's a technical question and we'll uphold the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71455	Davor Bernardic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71456	Well, thank you very much. Mr. Drinker, I congratulate you as one of the beginners of that 16 years ago, the times have changed greatly since then. '98. I was at the physics Olympics, I was 18 years old, and today time is completely different and I believe it has to be done much more, that that system that you mentioned yourself that was introduced 16 years ago is not considered to be the only one that matters, because 16 years has passed since then. So many things have changed, or at least they should have changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71457	Drazenko Pandek, individual debate. I would like to thank the honourable Vice President of Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, these amendments to the law relate mainly to technical harmonisation due to the transformation procedures of the State Inspectorate. But I also think, as did previous speakers, that the topic is extremely important and that we need to talk about this issue and beyond. The use of electronic signature is therefore somewhat present in economic business. It could be more, of course, but unfortunately, it seems to me that in the work of the administrative apparatus it is almost undetectable at all. I personally worked at the administration. I must say, in my work, I did not meet with the practice that at all officials were suggested that they might use electronic signatures or even electronic communication in their work. I haven't even heard of such practice, let alone to meet her. And the e-signature law has been in effect since 2002. The Electronic Correction Act has been in force since 2005. It should also be pointed out that there are normative preconditions for the application of electronic signature and eGovernment principles. One of the most significant normative preconditions is the existing Office Business Regulation. This Regulation provides for the use of electronic signatures and the use of electronic communications in several places. Thus, it is prescribed that the document is, among other things, electronic or any other record of the data. It is mentioned that an electronic document of any type of electronic record which does not have the property of an electronic document. In that Regulation, I would point out as the most significant Article 13(2) and Article 59. It is prescribed, therefore, that all letters may be sent by electronic means and that the letters delivered in electronic form by electronic signature shall be deemed to have been signed by hand in accordance with specific rules on the electronic device. The final sentence of Article 59 should also be pointed out. The certificates and other certificates may also be issued by electronic means. It should then be mentioned that the provisions of the ZUP that the file of the administrative case can be conducted in electronic form, with unfortunately when we talk about this General Administrative Procedure Act, it is not foreseen that the administrative solution can be signed by electronic signature. Unfortunately. I hope that here also the representatives of the ministry may, in cross-resorship cooperation with the Ministry of Administration or the judiciary, work to address this problem. I think it's an extremely mature time and that it's basically past when solutions and even other acts and documents have to be made in the judiciary and judgments in electronic form. Here I really hope that I'm wrong, I really don't have the knowledge that even a single administrative body at any level has benefited from the opportunities that these provisions that I've been talking about right now to rationalise work, to achieve the economics of savings, efficiency, and that could be enormous. Unfortunately today the computer is still in most administration offices at all levels used as a little more sophisticated typewriter in the same way as 30 years ago. So in one document from door to door if I don't know about different organisational units, the door is 30 meters away, it takes seven days. First it is written on the computer and printed and printed, then signed, stamped, then delivered to the manual, and then it goes into the second office's manual records and again on the same path to reply, waiting seven days again. That's still how it works. It's just crazy to me. The problem is, of course, in the heads. There is a strong resistance to the baskets of restructurings to administrative authorities that provide huge resistance to any change in this direction. The main problem is at those highest levels, the highest levels in the administration system that haven't changed for decades at the level of probably bosses. So when I say that the problem is in the heads, I speak in both literal and conveyed terms. Every change has to go from top to bottom somehow. Surely we have seen in these discussions that young people, that some fresh ideas come from new winds when we are talking especially about structures where I have had the opportunity to witness at this local level. There is, of course, a greater effort in the education of staff in the administration as well as in the citizens. For example, nobody knows what an electronic signature is, more or less, now ask people on the road what an electronic signature is, they'd probably all be nodding like that, they wouldn't have a clue. The law states that this is a set of data in electronic form in which they are associated or logically related to other data in electronic form and which serve to identify the signatories, the authenticity of the signed electronic document. Electronic signature when we talk about it, it differs as a simple electronic signature and as an advanced electronic signature. Regular electronic signature for comparison, to make it easier Okay, so that's the token you get in the bank and there's no obstacle to, say, using such a token in the work of state bodies and state authorities on local self-government. [[Intruder, Zgrebec: Dear Pandek, we prayed for one rationalization of time, speak too widely.]] In that sense, I think there are opportunities for major changes and for major rationalisation and progress in that segment, and I need the effort I believe here that this debate will also contribute to the investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71460	Final draft law amending the Law on electronic signature, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 609. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. The adoption of this law requires most of the votes of all representatives in the Croatian Parliament, i.e. 76 votes to pass the law. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? What's the score? I find that most votes, 87 votes in favour, 24 abstentions, have been passed by the Law amending the Law on Electronic Signature in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71461	And now we're going to do this point with a colleague named Leveric (a) a proposal for a decision to resolve a member of the Competition Protection Council; (b) a proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Competition Protection Council. The proposer of the decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Law on the Protection of Competition is laid down for the Croatian Parliament to appoint and resolve the President and members of the Council on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Mr. Allen Leveric, Deputy Minister of Economy will explain the decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71462	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Therefore, given that the current member of the competition protection council with effect from 20 February 2014 expires on the five-year term of office of Mrs Vesni Patrlj, the Government set out a proposal at its meeting held on 23 January 2014, a decision on the resolution of the appointed member of the Competition Protection Council with effect from 20 February 2014 on the expiry of the term of office. At the same meeting, it set out a proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Council for the Protection of the Competition of Ms Vesna Patrlj on 20 February 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71463	The board wants to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Đuro Popioč.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71464	So here's to us who are here and who are the rest of the line is just to say a few words. So I know the lady and we worked together and with that basis and it's time to say that we support this decision that the person who worked at the agency is also re-appointed to this important function and for the continuity and knowledge and ability of everything the agency has done so far. But also the question of what is then still with the president himself who seems to me still in the vd status or something, and we expect that soon one such process will, when the time is up, come for the president himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71465	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the motions for a decision later. Now I'm setting a break until 3:00, and we'll proceed with the sixth agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71466	Proposal for a decision authorising a member of the Competition Protection Council. The debate on the proposals for decisions is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution decision. Please raise your hand to state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? There is. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 108 votes to four votes, have been abstentioned to a decision on the resolution of a member of the Competition Protection Council in the text as proposed by the Proposer. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on appointment. Please raise your hand to state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? There is. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 106 votes to four abstentions, have been decided to appoint a member of the Competition Protection Council in the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71467	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the provision of services in tourism, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 614 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Tourism. You've received reports. We have with us a representative of Deputy Minister Ratomir Ivicic and his associate. Do you want an introduction, Deputy? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71468	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. Allow a few introductory sentences with a proposal for a law on amendments to the Act on the provision of services in tourism with a final proposal for a law. The current Act on the provision of services in tourism, "National Journal" No. 68/07. and 88/10, there are arrangements and conditions under which legal and natural persons can provide tourism services. Since the State Inspectorate has ceased to work since 01 January 2014, following amendments and additions to the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Ministry and other central authorities of the State Administration, the Ministry of Tourism shall take over the responsibility of carrying out inspection tasks in the field of the provision of services in tourism other than the supervision of the payment of budgetary and other revenue established in the section of the Ministry of Finance. Last week, the Croatian Parliament passed a Law on Tourist Inspection, which would set up tourist inspections within the Ministry of Tourism. This proposal amends the provisions relating to the conduct of inspection supervision, but also certain amendments relating to improving the entrepreneurial environment. It is proposed that the inspection supervision of the implementation of the Tourism Service Act is carried out by the competent tourist inspectors of the Ministry of Tourism, that the Tourism Service Act no longer be subject to the supervision of the provision of unregistered services in tourism, i.e. by respecting the prohibition of public advertising or advertising of unregistered service providers. In addition, two exceptions are proposed in the law. An exception is also proposed to facilitate the operation of legal and natural persons, domestic and foreign persons, if they are provided in accordance with the specific regulation of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs which regulates the conditions for the provision of those services by the State Administration for the provision of such services in accordance with the Tourism Service Act, the procedure is simplified. And there are two other exceptions. One of the conditions for the conduct of the business of the manager of the tourist agency is deleted, and this is the condition that there are two years of work at the relevant jobs in the tourist agency or other relevant business in tourism because it has been assessed as restrictive, primarily for the possibility of self-employment. And another exception. It is prescribed that an extremely tourist agency which directly provides services to a passenger via the Internet can also be provided in the space of residential use because it is also assessed as limiting primarily in self-employment and also enables the development of new types of tourist services and products according to the needs and interests of tourists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71469	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here's my colleague Beus, the Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71470	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, Madam Assistant. On 11 February 2014, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the provision of services in tourism with the final proposal for a law on the basis of Article 77 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. I note that representatives of border associations, Croatian travel agencies associations, Association of independent travel agencies and the Association of travel agencies at the Croatian Chamber of Commerce participated in the work of the session. The applicant’s representative first explained the reasons for the adoption of the law in question by an urgent procedure, as well as the content of amendments and additions to the law. The following opinions, suggestions and suggestions were presented in the following debate. Given the economic situation in the country, all participants in the session supported the Commissioner's intensities on encouraging self-employment of young and unemployed people. However, it is also pointed out that measures to encourage this must be in line with the representatives of the profession and bring a systematic approach in order to avoid the potential negative consequences of their application. The adoption of an emergency law allowing the business of the Internet agency is questionable and is not in line with the representatives of professional associations. Making it possible to open an Internet agency meets certain assumptions that a successful self-employment measure is taking place, but since it is a new model of business on the Croatian tourist market, we must be very careful in respect of the principle of the European market in the form of consumer protection, staff protection, job sustainability and equal competition. There is also concern about the provision of business agencies in the residential area and there is a potential risk of unfair competition in relation to tourist agencies operating in the business area, and they bear all appropriate additional costs, then the risk of inadequate insurance of passengers and the collection of business activities, the inadequacy of providing services, and the problem of insufficient number of inspectors to carry out business controls and supervision of such agencies. It has been pointed out that there is no uniform practice in EU Member States in countries where the more liberal conditions for opening businesses are usually very strict conditions for consumer protection. In countries where conditions for opening and managing businesses are stricter, these other conditions are somewhat more liberal. RH is a small market that can only survive if its accommodation has high rating and its service high quality. Currently in Croatia, we have about a thousand tourist agencies that employ about 4,000 people and generate about two billion euros in traffic. The business of these agencies as well as the work of the people working in them must not be compromised in any way. It is extremely important that domestic tourist agencies operate in quality because the damage that can result from poor mediation is something that irrevocably affects the rating and perception of the image of Croatia as a destination of quality service. It is pointed out that uncontrollable and complete liberalisation and deregulation must not be allowed to allow everyone to deal with everything because this can result in the complete chaos of the system that we witnessed ten years ago as well as the inability to track those who break the law. With regard to the issue of amending the existing law, which has so far been required for the head of the business for two years of employment by the new legislative proposal, this would completely be abolished. The majority of participants in the session opposed this by stressing that this entirely coincided with the principle of promoting excellence in the business of tourist agencies as the best way to protect consumers and raise the quality of services recommended by the Tourism Committee in June last year. Instead of abolishing this condition, it is proposed to liberalise it, which would have changed its work experience in two years. The arguments for this are in a large number of young educational people on the stock market who unfortunately do not have the necessary years of training, but sometimes, through volunteering, work abroad, part-time work and other ways, have collected the relevant experience necessary to carry out this work. It is suggested that, after the end of the 2014 tourist season, an exact figures and performances of the business of such a model of Internet tourist agencies be presented as proposed to establish such a report as a basis for the permanent resolution of this issue in the new law under which the Ministry of Tourism works. Two amendments have been proposed to the amending and supplementing laws on the provision of services in tourism, as well as to the representatives of professional associations, in accordance with the proposals for the law amending and supplementing the Law on the provision of services in tourism. The first amendment regulates that Internet agencies can provide services from the space of residential use, but provided that it has the residence of business managers and that Internet agencies can employ a single person as a specific form. The second amendment defines two years of working experience as one of the conditions for a business manager. These solutions allow self-employment in agency business, also prevents the abuse of laws by people who will start and run Internet agencies. It also liberalises the existing conditions that business leaders must meet. We note that the representative of the deputy minister of tourism, at the very meeting of the Committee, agreed with the proposed amendments. In this respect, on the basis of the debate held, the Committee concluded that it proposed to the Croatian Parliament and concluded this by a majority of votes of 6 votes and 2 votes against, to pass a law amending and supplementing the Law on the provision of services in tourism with two amendments proposed by the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71471	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Damir Rilje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71472	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. So here's the clue to the decisions of the Committee on Tourism, and considering these amendments and additions to the laws here I'd like to present on behalf of the club a few thoughts about what these changes and additions make qualitatively, and in fact what they should turn their attention to and perhaps make it better, more efficient and quality. So before us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of services in tourism with the final proposal for a law. This law proposes appropriate amendments and additions in the field of the provision of tourism services by legal and natural persons. The provisions adopted by the law amending and supplementing the Law establishing and delirious the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration, which shall be competent to carry out inspection tasks in the field of tourism services provided by the Ministry of Tourism through tourist inspectors and not more economic inspectors, shall also be implemented. The exception is to monitor the collection of budgetary and other revenue and to prevent and prevent unregistered activities carried out by the Ministry of Finance's inspection. That would be like one change. In order to allow Croatia to enter 20 leading destinations in the world according to the criteria of competitiveness, it is necessary to change everything that is holding us back. The number of tourism employees over the past 10 years has grown slower than the number of tourist arrivals and overnight stays. As the strategy for the development of tourism by the Republic of Croatia until 2020 answers the question of what tourism Croatia wants and needs to develop and sets out key activities of tourism policy aimed at ensuring productive institutional organisational and human assumptions to improve the competitiveness of Croatian tourism, this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of services in tourism goes in this direction. The development of human potential, i.e. the possession of contemporary knowledge and practical skills, is a key element in delivering quality tourism services and improving the competitiveness of Croatian tourism. The Croatian tourism economy with tourism development will have growing needs for quality executive and management staff. The first Amendment of the Law on the provision of services in tourism therefore refers to a tourist agency which directly provides services to a passenger via the Internet and are a residential space. It is a change that will allow self-employment because a person can easily start working without costs in relation to business space. On the other hand, many tourist agencies are already objecting to this provision of the law because they consider it to be a reduction in the criteria and quality of service, thus destroying the protection of consumers or users of services that are actually in all countries, tourist countries, sanctity, therefore quality service. The representatives of the profession also point out that the business minimum that a person wishes to engage in this activity would have to have because, as the guest points out, he must know who and where he can address if he is not satisfied, not only a guest but also a competent inspection would have a court order to enter the apartment. How to prove who works at the Internet station and who is only a member of the household, or household. However, we believe that work from home already exists in our legislation, it is used by some craftsmen, accountants and the like. This space shall be reported in the registration of the trade and thus allow free entry of jurisdiction to the inspection. The person who decides to do business in such a way must have a prominent record pointed to by the company and the head office of the agency. Any measure that will enable more self-employment should be welcomed in this case, as many young people gain experience working through a student service during years of study and are allowed to start their work immediately after completing the study without higher costs. Because the cost of renting space is also the largest financial items and burdens of every agency in the creation. The European Union has recognised Croatia as a tourist destination with potential, so it is our job to make maximum use of them in the interest of growth of our own well-being with as much self-employment as possible to facilitate the employment of all those who know and who want to work in tourism and contribute to it. So, when we talk about the important newspaper that this law brings, erasing part of the article of the old law relating to the job internship of the head of the business. According to the proposal, the head of the tourism agency's business will no longer have to have two years of work experience. Tourist agencies say it gives them unfair competition. However, working experience does not always have to be a condition for successful business, knowledge and expertise, as well as for the newspapers that very young people most have are often an important factor in successfully done work or quality services. Often these young people, as I have already said, have done and gained experience by working through student service, working through a work contract and in other ways, are lawful and should be allowed to continue uninterruptedly what they want and can do if they are from this economic branch for these powers, or from this part of the circle. So in providing tourist services. Also, using EU funds in the financial perspective of tourism is a kind of development that is most used by young, educated and perspective people if we provide them with the possibility of fast employment or self-employment. It's a huge potential in this area, and it needs to be exploited as much as possible. Croatia is already one of the most desirable nautical destinations in the world today. This is suggested by the ever-growing results of business in nautical tourism most of the season. Of course, she's still not who we'd like her to be, but still. Due to its geotransport position and with one of the most divorced coasts in the world, pleasant climates and suitable winds, we must also welcome the news about providing services, renting boats and accommodation guests on board. This Act proposes a simpler business for legal and natural persons, domestic and foreign persons, provision of services, chartering of vessels and accommodation of guests on board vessels. If services are provided in accordance with the regulations of the competent Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, which regulates the conditions for the provision of such services by a specific Regulation, they shall no longer have to come up with a solution for providing those services in accordance with the Tourism Service Act. However, in addition to the qualitative shifts in the provision of tourism activities proposed by these amendments and amendments to the law, there are also some concerns that the applicant should consider and be shown in the following. There is a concern of interested professionals about enabling business agencies in the residential area and possible risks. So, as we have already heard, unfair competition in relation to tourist agencies operating in the business area, and they bear all the appropriate additional costs. There is a risk of inadequate passenger insurance and the collection of business activities providing services with an inadequate level of quality and the problem of insufficient number of inspectors to conduct the control of jobs and supervision of such agencies which could now, for example, increase by one corresponding number. Enabling, the opening of an Internet agency meets certain assumptions that it is developing to a successful self-employment measure, but since it is a new model of business on the Croatian market, it is necessary to ensure a firm respect for the principle of the European market, such as consumer protection, staff protection, job sustainability and equal competition. Whether it's only with these changes that it can be or should be done, that's another question now. It may be necessary to regulate the i.e. further. bind the relationship between the head of the agency, the housing unit and the possible number of employees in such an agency. We heard that we have over a thousand tourist agencies that employ over 4,000 people and generate around 2 billion euros in traffic. This is also set out in the text of the Committee on Tourism. The business of these agencies as well as the work of people working in them must not be threatened in any way because there would be great damage to the provision of rating services and perceptions of a tourist picture of Croatia as a destination where quality tourist service is provided. The relevant problems in determining this topic create differences in perception of responsibility for providing services in tourism between Internet booking centres and Internet agencies. If tourism represents different activities that meet the needs of tourism consumers, and intermediation is the basic form of economic status of the agency in tourism, then we could define the tourist agency as an economic organisation or organisation whose core activity consists of organising and selling travel and staying and providing other services to travellers and participants of tourist transport. Since the tourist offer is spatially separated from the tourism demand, the agency finds the meaning and part-round of its work in this separation of the tourist market, the merger of tourist offer and demand on the tourism market. Today, the mechanism of tourist agencies itself is aimed at potential pressure, on a tourist offer to create all the preconditions for the increasing mass of people, i.e. the public, to be involved in tourism. Such a way of working the tourist agency has contributed significantly to the mass of tourism services and tourist flows themselves. There is also a version of the booking center, so he himself would represent reporting the arrival of guests to a hotel, booking some tourist arrangements or seats and the process of registering the sale of tourist arrangements. So something different from the travel agency itself. In fact, it would not be concerned with the quality of the service and the stay of the users of the tourist service in the appropriate arrangement but with the owners of the corresponding hotels, or rather depends on what was sought in the tourist service. There are also dissatisfactions with the amendments to the existing law in which two years of internships have been sought for the head of the business so far. So the new legislative proposal would completely put an end to that. The question is how to maintain the principle of promoting excellence in the business of tourist agencies as the best way to protect consumers and raise the quality of service provision. It would be important that the course of such liberalisation, the provision of services in tourism and its successes and the actions on tourism movement are followed by the Ministry and other interested bodies and the interested public, such as, of course, all associations, travel agencies, therefore, and that they have their own word and influence in the creation, of course in the working debate of exactly these legislative drafts. I would also raise my doubts here about the role of tourist communities in municipalities, cities, counties, in terms of the problem of providing services in tourism. The planning of tourism development and the provision of services in tourism depends greatly on the provisions of this law, and the question is how much local, regional self-government can act on this issue at all. The possibility of influence on tourism movement is based on co-operation between the local and regional self-government bodies and the tourist community bodies, and the only direct link is the mayor, mayor or mayor. Perhaps the tourist communities should connect closely with local and regional self-government, perhaps decentralised their activities, as a competence of local self-government units that should be in line with strategic planning documents of local self-government units and the Republic of Croatia, of course and county, in the field of tourism. This is not often the case, and often the specifics set out in Article 32, although some other law is now not on the agenda, but I had to mention it because it is important for the provision of tourism services, so the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism solves different proposals and views of local self-government and tourist communities. Although the subject is mentioned, as I have said in the second law, it has a major impact on the provision of services in tourism. I would like to say, in order to make the quality and efficient regulation of the tourism services market, that we should continue to develop and coordinate this problem on the basis of what has already been identified by the decisions of the Committee on Tourism itself, but here is what the SDP Club has proposed, which is likely to propose by many others. Finally, here is the SDP club, which will support this bill and suggests that the proposal be followed by some of these recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71473	Thank you, too. We have a replica of a few. Ada Damian, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71474	Thank you, Vice President. Deputy Minister. Comrade Rilje, you are the principles of several topics that are not exclusively related to this amendment of the law, and I will say that I support if these amendments of the law will bring a new job when it is important to us. However, I'm afraid that there would be no unfair competition that you mentioned because opening an Internet agency from your own home is not the same as having an agency in business areas that are very expensive to pay. I would like to say that it is necessary to clearly define how internet agencies will be controlled, how many tourist inspectors will be able to control Internet agencies when and so far these existing or tourist inspectors have not been able to control illegal guests or illegal rentals. And how consumers will be protected. It needs to be clearly defined who I can complain to, but who I can also praise for the work of such agencies. All items should also be clearly defined so as not to allow chaos on the market and that the violation of the law is carried out by more rigorous measures. You also mentioned among other things the tourist community and said they should be decentralised. The truth is that it is the subject of the second law, but we who come from local self-government know what the problem is because we are mayors, mayors, mayors and presidents of tourist communities without telling us any interference and control over the tourist community. So in this part of me, I absolutely support you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71475	Thank you. My colleague Rilje's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71476	Dear colleague Damian, here I am going to be turned back. Well, I agree with you in principle. In fact, the problem is that I don't think there's gonna be enough inspectors to communicate with it all, and they're going through it because I think tourist agencies are going to show up especially on this Internet. Yeah, that's so one let's call it a lucrative job if that's what you're going to do with a little pleasure and a lot of hard work. But the problem is, here's what you've touched in your presentation strategy. What you said I agree with you, but then we would have to talk again about the strategy and we had to implement some other problems in the Tourism Development Strategy in the Republic of Croatia, respecting the features of decentralisation of the system to everything that is actually provided in the units of local and regional self-government. What would that mean? So why not, we'll talk about the residence tax a little later, so that wouldn't be nautical tourism. Which would not be all that is happening in the field of units of local self-government provided that units of local self-government have an obligation to implement all their development plans in line with the development of the tourism plan, master plan of the Republic of Croatia. And that's it. One cannot personally answer about quality protection because it is closely related to inspection and is closely related to who will be guilty if something is done wrong. I still don't know what experiences they have in foreign countries. There are them in one way or another, but I'm always a supporter when you come into the office then it's a little different. I'm not saying this won't work, it won't boost self-employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71477	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71478	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Rilje, you've just said one sentence. You say you don't know what effects this law will produce. So why are you bringing it to your government in an emergency procedure? Why don't we think about it? Here comes Mrs. Damianac and you've agreed that there are doubts, numerous doubts about the formation of new agencies like mushrooms after the rain. Now we have them by Beus Richembergh 1000 with 4,000 employees, now there will be 6,000 for a country that has 4 million and 300,000 inhabitants. Isn't that a little too much? The other thing, these home agencies, to say in house slippers, is that the agency in your apartment has an agency. Whether it will be unfair competition for those agencies that are already working, they have business spaces, so they have a renaissance one already. Some have acquired relatively good renaissance. Not exactly like that Atlas and I don't know a general tourist who's failed thanks to certain moves in privatisation and conversion. That's not what I'm talking about right now. It's not the time. But then, there's this situation where I'm going to say a thousand agencies in the hope that someone will find a job and do business, thank God, God forbid they do business positively. But so are you, so are you and the parties that propose and bring this, the parties that propose and pass this law in doubt. And would it not have been better if we had discussed it a little bit, perhaps even worked out, so that if we had brought something that might have been, it would have provided a greater guarantee of the success of such or similar laws in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71479	Thank you. Answer, colleague Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71480	Dear fellow Grubisic, speak to the Holy Scriptures and I understand you, you speak well. But look, you'll never step forward if you don't take the first step. And I understand from one side. On the other hand, I don't understand, because we were supposed to, like you said, maybe bring it in in two readings. That's true. But here I am by chance working and preparing this I have UHPA, so the Croatian Travel Agency Association. For example, they agree that this can be done, but that additional security should be provided with appropriate improvements within this law. Maybe that's why she was supposed to read it twice. Because we have to end up with some trends that exist outside, which doesn't necessarily mean that we're going to have to fix the tourist picture, I don't know, you know. That is why it is important to speak as much of this in the interested professional public. That's why we can't be here except with the legislative basis and apart from the basics of studying what the people responsible for tourism have said I might have a little more experience, maybe you, I don't know. But the fact is, we said two, three things that say let's just say it like that common sense. And that means how to control something that's expected to big expansion of it. On the other hand, we can't even be in a position to take a step. You know, sometimes you also have a relationship where you need to get into a detailed system of travel agencies to shake and say let's go now you're going to get a part of the competition. You just can't do it on your mind or anything. And how is that I can't say that? That's why I'm as much like you now as I am able to talk about something that I might like to talk about in two readings and not in one instance. That's where I can absolutely agree with you, but it's just my opinion personally. On the other hand, yes, that's what he's saying. No, no, I have to go with you. Now I'm giving you back the replica. Here he is anyway. Thank you very much. I think I answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71481	Thank you, too. Drazen Djurovic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71482	In your debate, you opened up a lot of interesting aspects of this issue, too bad that, apart from a few of us, the minister didn't have time so that he might hear your debate, that you might think a little bit more about these aspects that you put out in your debate, and therefore, I also agree with what you were saying, it was very good that we had a little more space to discuss this. Or perhaps the proposal for this material provides a little more information and thinking elements and what it will bring. The fact is that the situation is such that we really need to look for all possible ways to create new jobs in all sectors without compromise because unemployment is so high because young people have no place to work. On the other hand, there may be a way to get these Internet agencies out of domestic work, which they would call something different, why it must necessarily be tourist agencies, maybe someone with them can be the same... I don't know how to define a tourist Internet or something like that as another category of providers of these same services compared to tourist communities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So maybe there's a chance. On the third hand, when it comes to tourist communities, we have seen what has happened to tourist agencies in these 20 and a few years we have had wonders and with this so-called established tourist agencies, at one point there is some kind of and the Adriatic is not a trap, and the Adriatic someone has lasted over a period of time and suddenly it is gone. So we see even that large agencies or large systems of organized agencies can be destroyed. But in any case, your debate was true, offered a number of additional elements, and it would have been good if it had been time and the minister had accidentally found the time to discuss it for a little while longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71483	Thank you. Answer, colleague Rilje, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71484	Dear fellow Djurovic, actually what to say about what you've just said. Here's the next, I agree that further as I have already told my colleagues, Grubisic, this should have been discussed further. This is one huge topic that covers one major segment of the economy, one that is very important to us and God let it be even more important. But what's this about? This is about the moment when we take a step forward, the question is how we did it, what that agency itself is, it's always going to be something whatever we call it, it's important what it represents in the economy, how the service is actually going to be done. If it's going to be a travel agency, then it's clear exactly what she has to do and that she has to guarantee the service she is, the one she's brokered for, and the one she stands for. If it's not, then it's called different and then it's something else and then it just connects the point and the point b and that's why it's responsible. On the other hand, the tourist community is something else and it's a special story but I want to fit it into this story because it depends heavily on every city, it doesn't matter where it is on the coast in Slavonia, Istria, it doesn't matter where, in Međimurje quite anyway, but it's very important and it's local self-government as much as it wants or not, it can't affect exactly because it can't because it's just a coupling, just before I said who and in which way. So it can only be negotiated, but it can't simply change the story of the body of the representative body of the unit of local self-government. In other words you will bring in the unit of local self-government of your PUR, there you will leave among other aspects and some tourist aspect, right, but it does not have to be a view and a tourist community, yet it is a logic that it fits into the story of the tourist community. I believe that in good faith, I think it is in most cases, but.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71485	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of HNS Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71486	Dear Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The legal text that we are discussing today is not physically considered debt, complicated, brings some news of which at least one is not controversial to anyone, and that is the one that transposes the provisions of another law which defines the reorganization of the state inspection system. Thus, this law draws a line, a division between inspection services, the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Finance, and determines their jurisdiction. What certainly brings attention to the professional public, but I am also sure many in the tourism sector, many practitioners and people living from tourism are also the issue of some innovations or the introduction of a new institute that has never existed in Croatian legislation. These are so-called Internet or how this law of Internet agencies. One would say what's new, so it's done over the Internet for a very, very long time and there's not one hotel or hotel owner or one service provider that's not on the Internet, that's true, everyone's on the Internet but it's not connected to the Internet. One is a booking centre, a booking service, there are many, now not to mention, not to advertise but there are servers on which the entire systems are based, which millions and millions of beds in the world do not know the borders of course sell in someone else's name, in the name of the owner, where the booking centre actually bears no responsibility for the quality of the service but is charged from a commission that is three, somewhere five, somewhere slightly more than one percent. The rest of the total value of what you booked is paid on the spot when you go where you go thanks to the voucher you printed. The Internet agency is completely different. So it's a travel agency like any other agency and it can do whatever other agencies do. But unlike others, classical agencies that have to meet a whole series of technical, spatial and humane conditions, the promoter imagined that an Institute of Internet agencies should be established that does not, by allowing it to work in a residential space. Yes, it is true, there is a whole range of activities, crafts that can be carried out from the living space, but rarely puts consumers at risk as intermediation in tourism. And in that sense, it's not the same. In the 1990s, they are extremely traumatic for the activities of tourism intervention. In the late '90s, we had total chaos, huge damage, doing whatever he wanted. The agencies consisted of one fraud, one cell phone, and one diary. Thousands of people were deceived or denied because they were charged for one thing, and they got another, and they couldn't complain to anyone or to God behind Metkovic because those agencies had imaginary addresses. Most of the victims were children, i.e. their parents, registering school trips and excursions where the agencies took huge money when they were looking together and delivered to the children a minimal, basic, incorrect, unquality service, calculating that children were the easiest to cheat. But others went badly. Such experience should not be repeated, and this is precisely why order has been introduced into this activity, so the agencies have been classified and technical and other criteria and conditions have been introduced, human conditions, guarantees from which consumers can be compensated. Meanwhile, all consumer protection standards have increased rapidly compared to the 1990s. In the meantime, we have become a member of the EU, which means that each of our guests, especially from the EU, are obliged to treat, accept, host, serve in the way he has agreed to buy products, in the way it has been advertised. Otherwise, if we haven't met the criteria prescribed, from guest safety, comfort, price, service quality, they're a terrible punishment if you're sued. There are some countries where there are no high criteria for the establishment of agencies but they are more or less formal, rather liberal, but the case law is such that no one thinks of tricking a client because they will be left without everything he has and will never in his life think of working with someone else's money again. These are Central European countries. You have other countries that have tightened the criteria just knowing that court practice is different, that it is more liberal and that guests, clients or consumers should protect at the beginning. On the other hand, you have the fact that whatever our accommodation facilities are more or less advertised on the web, these are not always effective booking channels. And it's crazy to close the system to something that's the future, and it's markets via the Internet or intermediation in tourism is trade with that the intervention in tourism is a higher level of responsibility because it implies a combination of services. Each agent is actually obliged to sell a package of services,... quality, must not allow himself or the client to have some of the elements of the offer, regardless of the accommodation, diet, transport, cultural service or any additional service, that are rapidly different qualities, so the agents are alertly watching that when they are making packages,... the service and putting it into a certain price... It's the role of an agent to keep on the one hand the customer's interest, the one he represents, of course, and to harmonize it. Unlike the booking service that works on the commission, the travel agency creates a new product, it creates a new value, and if we want to, and we wrote in the tourism development strategy that it is our goal, that tourist agencies become our destination management, i.e. companies, means that they are those who, based on everything they know about the market, will tell us what to create as a tourist product in order to bring guests. If we want them to be our travel agencies, then we must not import unfair but loyal competition. So liberalize space, open up the possibility of Internet trading and these types of services and Internet intervention, but with clear criteria. Therefore, it must not happen that the founder of an Internet agency sits in Brno, report to the agency at... at the address in Primosten, selling to guests or customers services, and when they reach that address they have no contact with anyone. There are neither employees nor leaders nor potential contact, advertising, or anything else. So, yes, but under clear criteria. In this respect, the amendment submitted by the Tourism Committee is clear. No problem, you can work from home, you can't work from home with 120 employees, it's clear as a day, so it should be limited so it doesn't turn into a cover for something else and it should be tied to the head of the business and the law clearly said that the head of the business could be the person who met certain criteria. Let the agency owner be whoever he wants, but the head of the business responsible for her legitimate business must be a licensed person. Now we have liberalized this proposal, so not only to end it, to end the experience as such in terms of internship, but to introduce it in terms of first experience. So we've liberalized completely, whoever's been doing something for two years in tourism, I don't have to have it written in my workbook or have the equivalent of being paid in retirement insurance to prove to the references and other documents that can be proven, and these are contracts and all other things and there's no problem, let the job do. Where does a good solution like this lie? First of all, to increase the utilisation of domestic private, depreciated capacities. If we succeed in this space to get quality actors to classify our domestic private offer, we have done a great thing because the current situation when Croatian tourism rests on an unsustainable situation that in the total mass or on the total number of our accommodation capacities, accommodation in private small units is dominant, super-half of it is unsustainable, this market cannot sustain. That's why we have an extremely low capacity filling. There are rare exceptions, there are exceptions to Komiža and beyond where you are able to do good even sell it for 120 days a year, but these are rare exceptions. They're people who do their job fantastically. But in the cheapest tourist areas, it's hard to sell tight capacity more than 60 days a year. The binding of a single reception tomorrow, or agency, which will represent all those tenants in a specific zone, can therefore be of significant help. In communication with the market in more efficient capacity distribution sales. That's where the possible plus what's proposed. It is definitely clear that the established system that promotes the quality of services because it is only possible to pass, we cannot be stronger competitors on the tourist market, only by increasing quality and only by increasing quality we can talk about higher income because higher quality is paid. So when we have a stalking system that puts quality first, continuous human education, licensing, then we have to keep that system safe. That 4 thousand people are currently working in tourist agencies, yet the entire force of foreign associates, guides, escorts, assistants, drivers of those who are only seasonally to contract short-term students who work over the summer, so a large number. We must not now try to liberalize the market to take the wrong step to destroy it to create maybe space for thousands of Internet agencies for thousands of people who will self-employed. Let's just hire 5 grand even though there's no room for it, it'll show up real quick. But we must not endanger the existing stalking professional system that generates income. So you don't have to go on an adventure but open a window to get more light into the space of tourist intervention and that's what we're going to say as a club of HNS welcome but with these fuses. And when this season is over, then we'll count what this change has produced in February, so we'll see what permanent solution we'll put into law in the new tourism service law that's been acidifying the ministry for more than a year and a half, and it can't go out just because of the disputes that are in this text of this character. Here, let's make it a pilot project. Now we'll see in the next 7, 8 months what will be the effects, and then we'll talk about the whole law. In this respect, the HNS club supports this proposal, also supporting the amendments of the Tourism Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71487	Thank you, too. Josip Boric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71488	Thank you very much. My colleague Beus all this is nice but this law and the other two that we will discuss today will not contribute to the development of Croatian tourism. The biggest mistake you've committed as a government started with 1.1.2014 and that's a 13% VAT on accommodation services. Nothing can make up for such a mistake and you can talk, you can talk about agencies about Internet agencies, we already know that. It's a novelty that's not news, every hotel house is a tourist Internet agency, every private household that deals with tourism does the same thing, you can use the phone or the Internet. The letter no one buks, it's a fact. And now we create philosophy with this story, we try and make mistakes to determine if it's right. Well, what kind of authority can say it or you know it's good, so I'm going to do it or you're giving it up. Well, it's just one unfair competition to someone, clear to everyone. And instead of thinking about how to return tourism money we took it from 3% higher VAT to catering services, did you take it by raising the price of the basic price charged to use water from 1.35 to 2.80 you took only camps over 200 million kuna. You're telling us about the agencies, so you're going to look at the results in the 10th month, and we're all going to figure out together how unsuccessful we were, and especially for the sake of playing with the tourism that was set quite stable. You started playing a little bit we're going to play here, we're going to turn out to be doing something, and in the end you're going to realize that it's a delusion like a lot of moves that have been made in these two years, and the system has been functioning normally. And the fact that we're going to make someone out there with a board do something that we're just gonna see when the season starts if it's even the way it's worked.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71489	Thank you. My colleague Beus' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71490	I am sorry that you also belong to those who do not understand the difference between booking services and internet agencies. So the fact that someone on their website is going to receive booking for their own capacity has nothing to do with what we're talking about right now. Unfortunately. Unfortunately, you don't understand, and then you twist. On the other hand, your thesis that in tourism everything flourished until this power came to ruin it absolutely only a summer view of statistics. Look at the consumption in tourism and profit in tourism from 2000 to today and you'll see where the dot is, the dot is reached. So the peak was reached at the moment when key highways were functioning. And ever since then, she's been stagnating because no new quality has been created. You can't convince me that the years behind us, in which a whole series of problems we have to deal with again and coming to us tomorrow, are the issue of tourist land and maritime goods and the functioning of tourist communities systems and the promotion of Croatian tourism, that's the question of investment, all of these are inherited problems. If you had solved them then, we'd be singing today, but we have to deal with it. ... What's the problem? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's about when there's a Law on Tourist Communities. Therefore, we should open up space to the news, and we should not pretend to be an isolated island. But the values and functional solutions we have must not endanger but improve them. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71491	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club Walter Boluncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71492	Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, fellow Members, Honorable Representatives and MPs. In advance, I should say that the IDS Club will support this law because of the importance tourism as a branch has throughout Croatia and especially for Istria that contributes with more than 30% of the traffic that amounted to 7 billion euros 2 years ago. This Law is, above all, necessary because of purely technical changes, due to changes in the state inspectorate, i.e. the economic inspectorate which is now divided into different instances, so that some of the parts that have been in before before, before the state inspectorate was formed either in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Tourism, are now shared so that in the jurisdiction of the State, the tourism ministry inspectorate only some parts succeed while some parts cost control of the tourist tax and other transfers to the Ministry of Finance. So it is necessary to define the existing newly formed composition of different inspectorates. I think in this part of it, even though it may have caused the least debate about the nautical tourism part. Since this proposal for a law thus states that it is not necessary to seek double conditions for implementation, so whether renting only a vessel or a guest accommodation is already possible to do so according to the specific regulations of the Maritime Ministry. Also in one of the following laws, tourist tax can also be charged in the port captainship along with some other things, it is a shipping permit as well as waste water. And guests who come with ships are definitely every hour they can spend without going to offices very important. Nautical tourism is definitely one of the perjanica and our coast with islands as many as are gone throughout Europe and elsewhere is something that attracts so many guests that the guests are already complaining that after three hours of the best time they have to agree to a marina because otherwise there is no room after three hours. So I think that one of the further works is needed to increase the number of relationships. The second part that is listed here, most discussed, was the establishment of an Internet agency. There are two obstacles, the first is that it is unfair competition and the second is debate that the head of the agency should not have two years of employment under this bill. As for the head of the agencies whether it's about the Internet or any other agency, he must have a class for the head of the agency, and if we take into account that most of these leaders only want to come to that place after the university, then we can ask ourselves how our schooling is if someone after having attended a hotel school in the middle of four years, so let's after that he's been in college 3+2 for 5 years, so after 9 years of schooling if he can't really run some smaller agency then it's not the problem of this law but it's the problem of schooling. And I think you should see that, I mean, it turns out that 30 years ago, you can't do anything, you have to go to school, so you'll have a little more retirement conditions than you'll have the right to work for the contest. I believe that, in this direction, the Ministry of Tourism and Central and Higher Educational Institutions dealing with education in this area should work closely together, as stated in the development strategy, through certain practices, either through courses. So someone when I say, after... Nine years of schooling in the area that he's capable of working as a head of the agency or some other job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the Internet agency is concerned, there are different opinions. One is the opinion that this Law supports that it is the key to self-employment and we have seen that on the other hand, the Agency's association complains that it may be unfair competition. So as I recall, back in the '90s, we had a couple of big agencies, but more or less by the sea, at least these agencies that were created, and they were created in a very similar way in a private house, someone had apartments to rent, and then on the ground floor, he opened an agency that was later growing. Another thing, I certainly hope, then, that both the Ministry of State and the Government's competent office dealing with the issue of permits will make a difference between an Internet agency with two employees or one Atlas or not to mention other agencies that work all over the country. This cannot possibly be unfair competition because these small agencies, if they have up to two employees, can definitely not invest thousands and thousands of kunas to go to fairs, to establish contracts with large other agencies and thus be able to sell part or entire hotel or what can be offered. Furthermore, even before entering Europe in one common market, the mass of our agencies that work are actually related to the agencies of others from other countries, and at this point none of us, as you mentioned earlier, can guarantee that we already have such agencies just not to be led by our people or at least not in Croatia, but to be concerned by some other country. So I think it takes one rule to say what is within the reach of these agencies in terms of the number of employees and the conditions in which they work and depending on the capital they have entered, and definitely those agencies can also help internet booking, Internet agencies, although all the time trying to make a difference are two very close things. You have guests who want to get on holiday before they get all sorted out until the last minute planned, bought tickets online, vacation reservations and everything else, and you have guests who get in the car, come in and look for the first agency that they come across to give or sell to them. As for competition in the sale of some larger arrangements, I don't think they have the power to be serious competition, and in the end they are competition with other agencies, why not. There are young people who have new ideas, and therefore in this area what is needed except for our sea, sun and coast, which is still our main source of income, is still the most beautiful in Europe, are definitely some events that attract people from all over the world. So I think this move is good, I'm sure it's going to need some rules to define what is the reach and what are the rights of certain agencies. You may have a shipyard to be called, but it doesn't matter if it's a Uljannik shipyard that can work world ships that can rarely be worked because of techniques or if it's a small shipyard that only the shepherds do and both of them are shipyards. And that's where the question arises, not to say fraud, we can actually say fraud through such a provision of services, but this debate was this morning. In any Internet agency you are always in danger of buying anything via eBay, Amazon or something else. In this regard, I believe that the Ministry of Tourism and Inspectorate would already be working on it, and now the ads that are on the Internet are being controlled. In particular, it is seen whether these ads that are located correspond to what is offered or whether the offer defined is not behind those ads. So maybe on the pages of such agencies, like the same quality sign, you should definitely put a sign of a state office that says it's a certified agency that's not exactly unknown and who knows what country it's in. In this sense, therefore, we support this law, so we think that one change and one greater swing of involving young people through self-employment is necessarily necessary. Tourism is a branch that is such that there is room for agency profiles very different, as someone has mentioned families with children before, and so, until the entertainment of young, adventurous, backpacking, and I think there is a place for everyone here, and there is definitely a lot of room for increasing our income based on tourism. In that sense, we support this law and we hope this season will justify it. I would only perhaps consider the fact that after the season, we should see what was the contribution of those agencies. It's already February, until... let it be the third month, we're a little late, and in order to be fully seen in this season what the contributions of those agencies are. A tourist note and work started a little early so this season might not be the right one to tell because it's already a little late. I think even the minister is already at some fairs that have already started to rent. Once again, I think the needs are necessary and we support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71493	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71494	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In connection with what my colleague Bolunčić was saying about the normisation of this educational programme, i.e. knowledge for the head of the tourist business, we actually have two problems. On the one hand, what is really necessary is whether it is necessary to standardise it. First, on the one hand, one of these standards is that we need to have an ESS that 90% of people already have today, so the question is that something like that should be asked. And on the other hand, when you look at this little article 22, it is discriminatory against the foreigners who should have it. Foreigners should only know Croatian enough to agree and have selected permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is already an inequality in relation to, they do not have to have this passed exam, a professional exam, or as it is already called, which refers to Croatian citizens. Therefore, it is already discrimination itself. And on the other hand, I'm not so that some things are defined by law, things that the market will do in logic. If the agency's gonna have a bad leader, she's not gonna make it. So that's how it's gonna work out. Take another example, if you have a restaurant with a bad cook so you won't be coming to that restaurant more than once. Therefore, some things are solved by the logic of some other relationships, and we want to standard everything up to the last detail. So I think this should be agreed on the way you said it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71495	Thank you. Answer, colleague Boluncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71496	Thank you. So, so far, there's this rule that there's a passed course for the head of the agency. And as far as foreign agencies are concerned, I think that, at this point in time, some of our market is largely held by foreign agencies, and a lot of our booking agencies are talking to foreign agencies that are then selling it, and sometimes their profits are up to 30 percent or more. So anyway... Yeah, here's a thank you. [[You can't hear Tudjman.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71497	Thank you. And the last replica of Ada Damian, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71498	Thank you. Comrade Bolunčić, you mentioned the shipyard large and small, that's right. Everyone has their own market, but when we talk about the agency, then we're not talking about a big, small Internet agency. In doing so, it is important to make sure that there is real loyalty to competition, and I claim that they are not in the same position. Because I repeat, agencies that are now existing that have their own offices, that pay rents, etc. They're not in the same situation as the agency that gets out of their home. I can agree with what you said about school and the internship. Thus, it turns out that students who have worked in tourism may have to wait on the same jobs, fill out two years of work experience or work experience to work in such agencies, and this is something that would really be discussed and put into law that it may not even be questionable that such agencies may also be able to run such agencies without working experience, provided they have the appropriate equipment, i.e. knowledge needed and competences needed to carry out this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71499	Thank you. Answer, colleague Boluncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71500	Well, right now, it doesn't turn out to you that these classic agencies have nothing to do with the Internet, and these new ones are going to work on the Internet. Large agencies have an online offer that is certainly better because they have contracts with, to a number of people with companies outside and can certainly offer better conditions than less. So it's hard to expect that some smaller agency will now take over the entire booking of some major agency on that side. Irregular competition. So, I think those who have up to two employees are working in their home and are being exposed exclusively to the Internet. I don't think they're that much of a threat to these major agencies that are doing the same on the Internet, so they're doing it. In fact, you'd probably be hired by those people who are going to try and do it on their own right now. So I think online shopping, Internet rental is always subject to... It means you've got some kind of scam. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm saying it would be good for the ministry to consider what the terms are and it would be good to put protection on those pages like when you have payments online that you have whether this site is under some kind of protection so that you pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71501	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDZ club Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71502	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, respected representatives of the promoters, the Ministry of Tourism, colleagues and colleagues. I would look right at the very beginning, as my colleague Boluncic from the IDS says, that their club supports tourism, and thus supports this law. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the development of tourism, however, opposes all that goes to the detriment of tourism and tourism quality. We know that the basic reason for the adoption of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of services in tourism is the adoption of a recent Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment and Fraction of the Ministrys and other central bodies of the State Administration, which, after almost 15 years, has been abolished by the State Inspectorate and since then, everything that has been related to the control and supervision of 1 January has remained in the air. We've erased one thing, and here's the other we're just talking about. It is only today that we begin the story in an emergency procedure on jobs that will be controlled by a tourist inspection, and that is long ago all, all that supervision of the provision of services in tourism should have been done. We warned that when providing services in tourism, supervision of the provision of unregistered services is not prescribed. This will be done by the Ministry of Finance, in particular the Customs Administration, while the Ministry of Tourism and the Tourist Inspectorate will be responsible only for the work against the solutions issued. By specialising and narrowing down jurisdiction, the inspector for the identified offence will be indemnity, which means he will leave the facility half the work done, while his letter to those competent irregularities will not be able to determine. However, we must say that there are provisions that we support, which are those that facilitate the work of our tourist employees. We have heard already under this Act no longer need to come up with solutions for the provision of boat rental services and accommodation of guests on board vessels. This law also deletes the mandatory condition for a business manager to have two years of employment at the relevant jobs. However, such a change can only enable employment, but we must be careful not to marginalise the necessary knowledge and expertise and to question the profession. It would be far more acceptable for a person to have at least two years of working experience, as suggested by the Croatian Travel Agency Association, and we also have the tabled amendment of the Committee on Tourism. This Law also provides a tourist agency that directly provides services to a passenger via the Internet service can also be provided in the space of residential use and should be very careful there. As much as we want this change to enable self-employment, we must not forget the guest, the protection of that consumer and the equality of competition. This could create unfair competition with regard to tourist agencies operating in a business space, and we know what this brings from renting, operating prices of electricity, water, draining and the like, then inadequate insurance of passengers and collection of business activities, and we also have a major problem with the insufficient number of inspectors to conduct business control and supervision of such agencies. We have currently heard about a thousand tourist agencies that employ about 4,000 people and generate around 2 billion euros in traffic. The business of these agencies and the work of the people who work in them should not be threatened in any way. You should know that these agencies represent and sell with hotel and similar facilities and all those in private accommodation. Namely, private accommodation does not go out on its own and sells its capacity but through exactly travel agencies and private owners make up 35% of total nights, about 20 million overnight stays and accommodation about 2.7 million guests, and therefore it is extremely important that these tourist agencies mediate quality because the damage that can result from poor mediation is something irrevocable that affects the rating and perception of the image of the Republic as a destination of quality service and we tend to be among the 20 leading in the world. And while only the ministry announces the preparation of a brand-new law that has been stuck right on the Internet travel agencies, we are now dragging it into a small door by emergency procedure. So someone with no business space, no property, online, and today we can hire as many as a person wants, can rent, charge hotels, apartments, receive money payments and disappear after the season. And by doing so, as is typical Croatian story, bring numerous companies that have done business with such a tourist agency in debt, performance, workers leave without a job or anything like that. Such cases should be prevented and at least somewhat restricted by selling them by prescribing additional conditions, e.g. that the Internet agency can provide housing services if it has the residence of a business manager and that such an agency can employ a maximum of one person. We've heard each other before. Youth and self-employment should be encouraged but should be further restricted. What about the initial capital and the guarantee to enter into such a business should be limited by the number of guests, overnight stays, traffic achieved and business times, for example. for the first two years and thereafter require registration of a tourist agency in a business space with all the obligations of those agencies that are now operating. We all proudly say that tourism is our most important economic branch, we from Dalmatia that Dalmatia is our largest tourist region, so with special attention we encourage the work of the Ministry of Tourism. By adopting a strategy for tourism development, something like this has not been mentioned, and we have all voted in favour. Where does a turn-off like this come from, and that's the question the ministry should answer. The Ministry of Tourism is responsible for the implementation of the main objective of Croatian tourism, which is to introduce us among the 20 leading destinations by raising quality, providing services in catering and tourism that it plans to achieve in the way envisaged by this law and for only 35 persons in charge of the tourist inspection. For example. in our county of Sibenik-Kninsko where it operates about 164 agencies so far, and according to this, there is still so much that there is only one tourist inspector with many beds that we will hear later. I don't know how he's gonna be able to control agencies like this. These amendments to the laws further open the possibility of work for those without space, without internships and experience.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71503	Thank you. Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71504	Thank you very much. My colleague Juričev, you have made this very clear and we rightly warn about the shortcomings because last year, in the middle of the year, we have brought a strategy for tourism development by 2020 and we have already given up 1.1. by raising the VAT rate of 13% we have violated measure 6 and increased the fiscal pressure on Croatian tourism and in the long term we have made it uncompetitive in the environment of whatever anyone is telling you. And then, of course, these changes come to me very dangerous because it's just incomprehensible that we're going to have agencies from the sofa, out of bed, you have a computer and you just want to get a job and you do, you're on the market, and we know that already today you're working with a lot of agencies that have been working for a long time, a lot of them blocking the meaning of a guest who needs to come, he doesn't come, you know who's carrying the expense of that private tenant, can't get him what he should have paid as he was the middleman and the one who's renting because the system is messy to the end. When it's done with foreign agencies you'll get your money for what your agency blocked, they have a regulated system, via the court to determine what happened and you get your money. Unfortunately, we're not ready for that, and then we're going with these easiest solutions, let's just get a job, and now we're going to gather around 20 of our neighbors, I have a computer, and we're going to block out, who's going to charge, where there's even insurance, where who can take who seriously at all. I'd love to do it, but knowing how it works today, I just hope I don't say what.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71505	Thank you. Answer me. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71506	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Boric, here's a situation, and now you've asked me to say it for colleagues who don't come from such parts and who don't know what it is to be a private tenant and what everything, what costs the agency and the private tenant can bear, one cartoon that had a mandatory accommodation on its voucher in an object with a view to the sea, and it was located 20m from the sea but it had a big pine tree and he didn't see it from the balcony, he painted it, he spent three weeks neatly in Croatia, he went back to his country, he wrote a commercial and received a refund along with the costs and all the other additional costs. I wonder who he's going to ask when it comes to an Internet agency that doesn't have initial capital or anything? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71507	Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71508	Dear colleagues, you can see from your speech that you have practical experience in such matters, but I am glad that you have called for strategic documents. The fact is that here in the Croatian Parliament we have adopted a unanimous strategy for tourism development, that we have assessed it positively, that we have in some way expected it to produce exactly the kind of documents that would go towards achieving what the strategy prescribes. Among other things, it promotes excellence. I'm not quite sure that guests of better paying powers will just be looking for such agencies that operate in the room, in the garage possibly with one employee rather than looking for something more organized and better... it's a strategic document. The second is contrary to the strategies of the Ministry of Science and Education, which is now encouraging an increased number of highly educated people who specialize precisely in the needs of a particular branch of the economy and tourism. Thirdly, it is not in line with the Strategy of Economic... who again prescribes the higher education of those who use cultural heritage for tourist purposes and promote through tourist heritage for tourist purposes. [[A speaker away from the microphone doesn't understand.]] So in this way, it is actually unclear to me that the legislator wanted to achieve this. On the other hand, he opened a series of dangers that even certain colleagues who had spoken earlier pointed out because what makes me pay for three highly educated tourist employees to sit in an agency where I pay rent if I can do all of this in my garage, close that agency and do it in my garage eventually with another one that will come a month two thousand kuna cheaper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71509	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71510	Thank you very much. Well, you're right, you're a colleague of Jasen's. The mission and strategy of the tourism ministry is to introduce Croatia among the 20 leading destinations of the world. As for self-employment and the resolution of the number of unemployed, it is the task of another ministry, and the Ministry of Tourism does not tolerate any learning because mistakes will cost us dearly, and we all proudly talk about the results of tourist seasons. So that after a year, we don't catch our heads with a minus in the area and nights and the number of arrivals and thus income.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71511	Thank you. On behalf of HDSSB Representatives Club Igor Čeček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71512	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Assistant ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I have to express my regret that one of these laws doesn't go into two readings, and we've all practically agreed that even a colleague of the SDP club Rilje should go in two readings. But I must also express my regret that we have not seen the Minister of Tourism in the Croatian Parliament for months, so Minister of the Strategic Branch of the Republic of Croatia, Minister of the branch where we all swear to God that every season is better than the previous one. However, what I must commend, and we have also praised the debate, is the Strategy for the Development of Croatian Tourism. When the strategy of the HDSSB club was adopted, it supported such a strategy as one of the first strategies ever adopted in this Croatian Assembly in this meeting and we were overjoyed by this strategy. And please allow me to read just one small part of that strategy that I have here on my own behalf and commend. So, among other things, a certain analysis of the users of tourist services was made in this particular strategy of developing Croatian tourism, and this analysis divides the consumer segment into 8 groups that are young people from 18 to 24, then Dinks or couples with double incomes without children, the family that includes those with younger children under 7 years of age and families with older children. Also one group is Empty Nesters or working-active people whose children have left their parents' home and live on their own. The Golden Age are pensioners without major health problems 65 years of age. These groups also include specialized business travel organizers. Among other things, one part of the strategy explains and the objectives of the Croatian Tourism Development Strategy are noted that it is a reconstruction and reconstruction of existing hotel facilities of around 825m euros, investment in small family hotels and pensions. The investment is based on some 295m-euro figure, investing in small floating hotels of 110m euros, investing in a camp offering 400m euros, investing in housing of 700m euros, investing in ports of nautical tourism of 552m euros, investing in newly created tourist attractions worth 210m euros. And what practically at the very end of the strategy for the development of Croatian tourism is written by the development of human potentials. The suitability of the quality of human potential, i.e. the possession of contemporary knowledge and practical skills, is a key element in delivering quality tourism services and improving the competitiveness of Croatian tourism. Faster and more intense changes in the market-business environment and the development of new technologies require new knowledge, and in particular various practical skills needed to effectively implement the executive and management processes in tourism. The Croatian tourism economy with tourism development will have growing needs for quality executive and management staff. Also parallel to the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in tourism, the need to bring new knowledge into this segment of the tourism economy is growing. Given that the formal education and lifelong learning system in Croatia is not sufficiently adapted to the needs of the tourism economy and the systems of tourism education organisations in the function of developing human potentials in tourism should be structured as a common responsibility of the state, employers and local communities. So this is just part of the strategy that we supported, the strategy has been adopted, the Croatian Parliament has adopted the strategy, it has not been a month and the Croatian Tourist Board's advertising has started. In the Croatian tourist community's ad we see the sea, stone, salt, sun, all part of Croatian tourism, of course, the continental part is practically forgotten. I think there were a few icons if I wasn't wrong about Zagreb, nobody mentioned either the mountain cotter or the character, or Slavonia or Baranja. Baranja had outstanding results last year as far as the night is concerned. I think she's had about 20,000 overnights. Only 30,000 visits were to Kopački ritu, and the city of Osijek was visited by 90,000 people, or 90,000 overnight stays. Not even 10 seconds in that advertising video have devoted itself to continental tourism. Slavonia and Baranja didn't get one second. I purposely read you a part of the strategy relating to the development of human potential. On purpose, because I'll be there when I get to the explanation of this law, I'll get to that point. Among other things, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament held a thematic session on 12 June 2013. We also agreed on this committee together with the following facts that there are 1,000 travel agencies in Croatia that employ about 4,000 people we have already heard during this debate. We also stressed that the tourist agency and tour operators have a much greater power of influence on demand than any other mediators and undoubtedly influence the formation of taste, motive, desire and the need of a tourist clientele. Therefore, for the reason of the tourist agency and tour operators, they stand out as the most important drivers of modern tourism. The Committee on Tourism in the Croatian Parliament has also made recommendations in my opinion an excellent recommendation. The Committee recommended that the Ministry of Tourism approach a thorough reform of existing legislation with an emphasis on increasing the quality of service provision, consumer protection and strengthening the role of domestic reception agencies. First of all, through amendments and additions to the Law on the provision of services in tourism and the Law on catering activities or through the making of entirely new laws. Changes to the existing tourism service law should work towards promoting excellence in the business of tourist agencies as the best way to protect consumers and raise the quality of service provision. In doing so, particular attention should be paid to encouraging the employment of qualified persons, to the system of passing a professional examination and to the obligations of lifelong education. Therefore, the recommendation of the Tourism Committee to the Ministry of Tourism is that it should pay attention to the employment of fully qualified persons. It is a recommendation from the Committee on Tourism. The Croatian tourism development strategy also speaks of the employment of highly qualified tourism staff. With this bill of law, I'm afraid we won't be able to hire highly qualified personnel. Why? First of all, we end the obligation to hire people with work experience. So the bill itself tells us to delete one of the conditions for doing business as head of the business and this condition that there are two years of employment in the relevant business at the tourist agency. We're erasing that decision now. Once again, I don't know which time this Kukuriku government has no synergy between the ministries. Why? If this decision is deleted in a law that belongs to the tourism ministry, why is it not done at least in a way that the Minister of Labour Mrsic makes it possible for students of vocational training without establishing a working relationship to have no working conditions for two years. So, if they were done with professional training, they would be able to work at such jobs, but only have a year and usually practice has shown when that year’s employer dumps them with his foot. So, and here it's shown, the government acts as one divided orchestra. And now the next point of this Act is that an extremely tourist agency that directly provides services to travellers via the Internet can also provide in the space of residential use because it is also assessed as limiting for self-employment, primarily because of the cost of renting a business space and also enables the development of new types of tourist services and products according to newly recognised interests of guests. What are these new tourist services? I can't read it out of this law. Because if it practically allows someone to open up a travel agency all praises the thinking that self-employment might take place. And that absolutely HDSSB club must support such an initiative, of course. But the opening of travel agencies in your fifth floor apartment in some conditions ask God what kind of conditions we cannot support. Because who's gonna control those travel agencies? There are certain risks of dealing with such agencies. And in the end, I can say that the Ministry of Tourism has given one great light motive to Vink Breshan to create a new comedy on this subject. It would be a great comedy and it could take my advice, or light could be some travel agency in Makarska and I come as a traveller and I want to go to the top of St. Go after Biokovo. And I call that travel agency online and I demand because I see that they are the most favourable and offers me a trip to St. Jurah for 100 kuna. And now he's gonna call some of his hellos, Shime, is you free from that dungeon to take my guest to St. Yuru. So there could be cases like this. I don't think you've worked out this law enough, which is why the HDSB Club will be restrained and it would be best if it went in two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71513	Thank you, too. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71514	Thank you very much. You explained the position of the HDSSB Club well, and I would reduce your entire exposure to one metaphorical sentence or title, which is the impasse of the tourist reality or inconclusiveness of this government. That's exactly what you were talking about. When you spoke about the tourism strategy or the Tourism Development Strategy, they were indeed very, very serious rules, the principles prescribed by this strategy. And this law actually derivates this seriousness and what is foreseen by the Tourist Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. I think this law is actually a continuation of this first employment law for 1600 kuna. Now these guys and girls are out and they're out of work on the bureaus, they're lying, they're standing, however you like, on the boards, the employment papers, and here at least now in Dalmatia, mostly in Slavonia, there's an opportunity to start an agency, and actually behind that is a new failure and a re-entering to the employment office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71515	Answer me, comrade Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71516	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Grubisic and I thank you for practically supplementing my debate. Yes, the strategy is a very important document and we all considered it an important document. That's why we practically unanimously supported him. However, when we see that it hasn't been a year since the strategy was adopted, we are going in the wrong direction with legal proposals. It's okay for a young person who graduates from the university of tourism or hotel direction to get self-employed in tourism. God forbid there's as many of them as possible. But what happens if the travel agencies open up people who aren't competent, who aren't educated. It's a fundamental question that there is no answer in this law. That's the problem. Whether our rating of Croatian tourism will grow or possibly fall drastically.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71517	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71518	When you mentioned this issue of two years of work experience, it is indeed a question, very few activities, and very few colleges where you can, with your college completed today, without any work experience, open some kind of autonomous activity. There are really few of these sectors. So, I also think more or less of our kind of social principle that people after college graduates have no ability to open up some independent activity, regardless of whether they've graduated from the Faculty of Agriculture, whether they've finished tourism, economics, law, management or not. So, as a rule, there are various regulatory mechanisms in sectors, various systems that make it impossible, so you have to have a few years of working experience, pass whether you're some kind of state exam, whether you're still a license or not, and if that system is good. This can be discussed really, it might be better if we in different sectors opened up the possibility and said that, indeed, you have completed a university that lasts 4 or 5 years and that college of yours has some value. As you might now be able to acquire from this proposal that we will say here you people are who have completed this tourist management and so on, we recognize the value of your college and your competence to start doing one demanding and for this society a very profitable activity or say no, and you fit into a scheme that is worth more or less for everyone else and choose to license yourself in some way, please have a few years of work experience and so forth. Maybe this model can also be an example, so let's think about it and open it up in some other professions of opportunity, as we talked about at the agricultural pharmacy with the Faculty of Agriculture can't be opened without a working internship, license and other, for example.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71519	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71520	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Djurovic, you were talking about some kind of regulatory element. The regulatory elements should then be reviewed for each profession. So, like I said... That's right, open it up to make everything available. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I open an Internet agency to provide legal services and give legal advice, I have no idea about the law, I'm not a lawyer, but I can open a legal services agency. Or I'll hire a lawyer. But I can't open a farm pharmacy and pull 50 kilos of mineral fertiliser or cattle food on my back until I have a working experience. But I can open up a travel agency, an Internet travel agency. This really doesn't make any sense to me, so either everything or nothing, so we need to meet somewhere. We can't in one part, this now refers specifically to tourism where we all swear it's a strategic branch of Croatia's development, practically open the door to anyone to open a tourist agency. And then, in agriculture, we're either right or the economy, we're making a big difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71521	Thank you. And Walter Boluncic, the replica. You're doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71522	Thank you. So the conditions still exist that need to be met, can't be opened by anyone, so we need to have an exam for the head, and perhaps the ministry might consider that depending on the level of professional preparation that may be sought for the middle one, and not for the tall one. The second thing, the fact is this, so lately it's been looking very much, we have three at our university, so in two shifts of six entrepreneurial incubators and others there's the Ministry of Science, the craftsman's money and students of the fourth year are starting to open up some of their small companies working in their college premises. That's what companies do for... The European Union plan and analysis if they are economists. So that's what it's all about, so it doesn't turn out to be working on it. And certainly there's an interest of the tourism ministry to do something similar with those educational institutions that deal with the area. The Internet is one of the problems we heard earlier today, but who's buying more airline tickets at the agency today, I think they're shopping on the Internet. So the danger of fraud exists, but that's why the Ministry is there to give terms that can be controlled. We've heard before that he's not gonna open up a friend agency in the garage, so he's gonna call one more guy and he's gonna do something. Well, that's what happened. Steve Jobs and Wozniak built Apple in the garage. So it's not exactly if it comes out of the garage that it's not worth anything. The question is that these agencies are being controlled. We've seen how many gatherings especially young people over different, so face groups, etc. Surely some agencies where younger people work may gather some kinds of hospitality that perhaps large agencies do not work. But once again, it's like the big agencies are gonna be out of a job. And they do 99% of their same online, online sales in collaboration with other agencies. This is just a chance that potentially with some extra fuses regarding education and therefore conditions for controlling work, one can in some way encourage this work of people who may not be able to find a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71523	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71524	My colleague Boluncic, Steve Jobs represented himself when he started the business, didn't represent part of America. Traveling Internet agencies represent one good way and our entire Republic of Croatia. That's one difference I see between Steve Jobs and these travel agencies. And so Steve Jobs if he didn't have a good product nobody said America was bad. But what will that traveler, a tourist who comes from Germany, France, England, Poland, Switzerland say about Croatia if someone gives him a bad service? So, these travel agencies, their first contact that this tourist makes with the Republic of Croatia, makes them precisely through these travel agencies. So, if that's the case, then at least some kind of regulation requires that whoever opens that travel agency has to have some kind of higher professional equipment or high-end training because of what colleges are for us. Then our education system is completely misperceptive, or completely misconstructed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71525	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71526	Thank you very much. Yeah, we talked a little bit in replicas about how we're opening up the possibility in the tourist sphere of actually opening up these agencies to start small ones. Maybe someone grows up like my colleague Boluncic said in some major agency depending on business and on their inventivity in resourcefulness. Well, someone can also offer to exchange young people, so I don't know either, there are these ways that young people can get through inventivity to some results. But here are examples of us that in other professions, for example the director of the state company Đuro Đakovic, in the majority ownership of the state, founded the same simple d.o.o. Kovala natur, Kovačević vla nastura for the cultivation and trade of lavender and other medicinal plants etc. Very interesting. So believing in his programme in Djura Djakovic he opened another simple d.o.o. I guess to ensure that there are some accidents in Djura Djakovic. So here's an example of how other people think about, like here's the government in opening new jobs in tourist agencies. It is in these thoughts that exactly as I said it would be called the impertinence of tourism intrusiveness or perhaps seriousness that this decision has been made which is actually continued this time, the hard way of young people from 1600 kunas and beyond. So, first you will get in the services of the county and the city of the 1600 kuna for your internship, and now you will continue to work in tourist agencies to work through your inventivity and a strong place among the tourist resort, there are plenty of empty places and walks, earn your kuna, dollar, dinar, euro, whatever you want. A colleague from HDZ says that there are 164 agencies in Sibenik-Knin County and that it will be most likely through this law that also promotes tourism activity, which promotes tourism activity, may be that much more. So I don't know if there are any local committees in Sibenik-Knin County as long as there are now how many travel agencies, let alone when there are others, there may not be as many houses as there will be agencies. Every house will be touristic, every house in Sibenik-Knin County via the Internet if those with broadband Internet, some of them do not have anywhere near Knin and there is no broadband internet. I know that because a man has to climb my hill to get his cell phone there in Strmica. So I have one friend there, so let alone the Internet is nowhere near it. So, every house in Sibenik-Knin County but also in others will have a tourist agency where a person of age might go and cut some wood somewhere in the woods, and when someone picks up the mail, then a son or someone calls him some Hans called what to write to him and then the child will answer by mail. Thus, we will have these many tourist agencies that will indeed pose a risk to business, and in terms of the overall state of tourism. And what exactly are we going to get? Will there be more benefits or damage to Croatian tourism? I wasn't talking about not having to compete with the agencies. In any case, it should be and it is good that there are, let there be a thousand flowers, as the Chinese say, so that among these thousands of flowers, one that is the best, most likely, the most radical, who are the Radholics, etc., who have the opportunity to have good translators, to have good tourist guides, to have, to get good captains on board, etc. which will show all the charms of our homeland both those at sea and those on the Sava River and on the Drava and Danube River, starting with historical, religious, hunting, adventure, cultural, gastronomic and sports tourism, which all Croatia can offer except as someone here today said except the sun and the sea. It can provide a lot, a lot of things. There are many unknown facts that can be used through this ingenuity and inventivity, as Boluncic said just for tourist purposes. And now a man comes to doubt whether or not he will vote for this law after all these facts that I have said and somehow and for both facts and warnings about what this law can bring in terms of unbelief in Croatia to a tourist offer. It can bring much more damage mainly to foreign markets than it benefits, and now we will have, this year we will have a lot, a lot of agencies and a year all of these that exist and these new ones may not be busy because some of them, because some of their dwindling business will ruin and what we have acquired so far through renowned travel agencies. That's what I'm talking about. So let's look at it this way and beyond. Let's look not at next year's tourism but 2016. We mentioned here and those agencies that are as my colleague Đurović says in which in crime and corruption, conversion and privatisation have stopped working or are in a very difficult business state Atlas, General tourist, Adriatica Net, we know who has all the fingers in them, we know all who has fingers. Now I'm not going to point out here because it's not an opportunity because it's not even a place, we're not talking about privatisation and conversion. If a colleague from HDZ says that there is only one tourist inspector in Sibenik-Knin County, most likely two in Zadar County, this is a small larger county, so there may be two or two here you see, in Split, there is an increase in the number of inspectors in the south and who will control so many large agencies and their business and who will be responsible for those damages that are done and through the non-reservation of booking, as they like to say, in books, booking of guests, we can translate it Croatianly. Who's going to answer that, Inspector? The agency, the one who issues the bed, the roommate Frei, I don't know because it's not regulated enough with us, we're just opening agencies, let's get a job, so what's he gonna do, will he have enough, so Croatia has twice as many guests and overnight stays than Vienna and twice as much tourist earnings as Vienna, which has 14 billion euros of annual revenues from tourism and Croatia 7, one city like Vienna has twice as much and a visit to tourist and overnight tourism and higher earnings twice as Croatia. And now we're going to distribute hundreds of agencies this cookie that we've got seven billion, we haven't reached the tourist traffic from the former Yugoslavia in 2008, we reached out, after we stagnate, there we go. Therefore, I would no longer like to talk about tourism because I am from Slavonia, because I don't know anything about it, so we are neglected there as to tourism, although it would be good for this Croatian state to finally turn to both the charms and opportunities that Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja provide in that sense, and I speak in all those segments that I have spoken about tourism about, therefore, both in that hunting and adventure and religious and historical and many other undiscovered values of tourism Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja, many but someone is not the goal. When we look at the distribution in the Ministry of Tourism, the funds invested for the promotion, then you see that this ratio is 96:4% for the sea, so we don't need for the sun and the sea adverts, so it's known and seen, the whole world knows, so let's give for what we don't know, and that's exactly our undiscovered Slavonian paradise. I guess there'll be these agencies when they're newly founded in Slavonia, and I guess they'll finally find out, that's what we expect the agencies will appear like mushrooms after the rain both in Dalmatia and Slavonia and in Zagorje and everywhere. Today I see Good Morning Croatia this morning when I shaved and watched two Koreans in Zadar, two came to take advantage of their honeymoon seven days, two young people from Korea to spend seven days in Zadar and that's news that goes to HRT. That's the news of the day, even two Koreans in Zadar, terrible. So, as counterpart Chesek said, with all these thoughts I've said, the HDSB Club will be restrained on this matter. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71527	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Branka Juričev-Martin's replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71528	Well, my colleague Grubisic, I'm glad you're listening to me this way, it's true because Sibenik-Knin County counts 164 travel agencies so far. When you compare that to the number of local committees you wouldn't be able to replicate, but with the number of houses, it's unacceptable. Namely, our county brought 450 thousand guests in 2013. If you share that with 164 agencies, each of them averaged 2700 guests, which is not a small number.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71529	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71530	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Juričev, I know about the take-off of Sibenik County. It was mostly during 2013, to say the biggest tourist shift, but thanks to the large number of cultural and other events organized in the town of Sibenik and its surroundings. We all know about the festival of the child and that and because of the media, media advertising in connection with all these events. I would ask you if you can, maybe we'll go together and find out how many Vienna agencies have, so let's see what their effect is if your effect in Sibenik-Knin County is 2500 guests per agency, maybe in Vienna it's 25 thousand and then we'll see that efficiency or efficiency of those agencies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71531	Next replica, dear colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71532	Thank you. My colleague Grubisic and I agree with you that there is indeed a fear that points to the possible abuse of this bill by those who will establish agencies that can be established somewhere outside Croatia and work in Croatia. We are now in the EU, so it is possible for someone to report the work of the agency to be somewhere outside Croatia and work in Croatia and ultimately to question the collection of all the funds related to the use of tourist services, above all, accommodation services, etc. So it is quite clear that there is one risk, a risk of business and there should be stronger control mechanisms that should come to the point where and how it makes money under this law on new tourist agencies. But you opened the issue of tourist accommodation, you opened up the issue of tourist seasons and the fact that we have not yet reached 2008 which was the best according to the indicators of how much tourism in the Republic of Croatia has received. And as long as we are in Croatia counting, and as long as the figures of our overnight arrivals and departures are important, it will mean that we are not essentially engaged in real tourism, that means that we do not know what the profits are in tourism. I agree with you one Vienna earns more than all of Croatia, one Paris not to say how many times more, one Prague earns more than Croatia, Prague. So it's about being obvious that we're misfocused. The center of tourism is an individual person who performs certain services and all the beauty that is present in a country that is the owner of such activities as Croatia. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71533	Time. Thank you very much. The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71534	Thank you very much. A colleague except that we agree that tourism should be based on quality and offer, so you see Vienna has no sea, Prague has no sea, Paris has no sea, it has a Seina, this has a Vltav, Vienna has a Danube and this beautiful brown Danube and they make so much money, it means it's something else that exists in Vienna other than history that is significant. But from your first part of the replica, I would say that you are alluding to even increasing the number of tourism inspectors, which is not very good either, and that is not great, because it would require an increase in the number of inspectors and new employment in not saying administratively to the state sector is not desirable. Now how do you solve it? This law would actually burden the inspectorate with everything it brings.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71535	Next replica, respected Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71536	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic is always interesting to me and, in fact, the more in this House, the more a man is called to the people and country, the more that same people treat as a complete jerk. You do very often in your discussions, and so in this one you cite some examples of some people who are completely incompetent to do anything that will guard sheep, and then some Hans will come up and he will ruin the reputation of Croatia and on this basis you are actually making conclusions about how no laws should be passed but we need to establish a state that is both mom and dad and patron and guardian of these fellow citizens and fellow citizens that you treat as dimwits, as idiots calling at the same time for them and their well-being. Young people in this country who are mostly not as you describe them should be given a chance to open up companies to start up projects and what is the difference between two years of religious experience in one can also be a third-rate, five-rate agency where they cooked coffee and took out trash and someone who will start their job and in this way that this law allows. And I end up with this, one of the basics of doing business on the Internet and the general business are the experiences of previous users, so people who are a generation who are used to doing their jobs on the Internet. One of the key elements is an analysis of the experiences of previous users available for various activities for various web sites and for various situations were available on the site either on some pages assessing the tourist offer, etc. and on eBay you have all your own and in all such situations you have your own files actually. And all those who behave this way after the first bad criticism, so no one will work with them again and again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71537	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71538	Comrade Coleman, I find it hard to remember your last name when it's Croatian. So Coleman you use very difficult words, so from that movement in the name of the family that you called a dirty movement to me or whatever you said, you mentioned the people as jerks. These are difficult words and difficult qualifications or disqualifications. If you think that working on the Internet is the only thing that is needed for a tourist agency and the experience in the knowledge of working on the Internet is the only thing that is needed to work in a tourist agency, then I don't know who is what you said. So you're a little hasty in your replica, and besides that, given the way you speak and dictate, maybe more than just hasty.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71539	A colleague Grubisic if you have memory problems and remember some last names that do not end up on ić that is your problem. And now you're getting a warning. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71540	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure and I have made the statement conditionally stated by my colleagues Grubisic as an insult to personal insult, even on a national basis even though I am a Croatian and mine, which is not important at all, but I will tell you, my family in Croatia is longer than yours, but it is not a level.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71541	My colleague Coleman is gone, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure when a disciplinary measure has been imposed, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, you can't answer that. Let's move on. The last replica of Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71542	My colleague Grubisic, here I can agree with a lot of your allegations, but in one you said yes, and you were talking about too many agencies, is it harmful, is it useful, I think, if it strengthens into control mechanisms and criminal provisions and everything that follows with that it can't be in any way harmful. What reason do I have to tell you? You need to know that the fill-up in smaller places in Dalmatia is somewhere at 40 days of private accommodation and that these are mostly small apartments fragmented and that they are not interesting to large agencies. That is why I see the opportunity for young people, but not only young people, but all those who feel capable of making money will surely accept it and make a very good profit. Because knowing that one apartment is somewhere around 100 euros and times 60 days that it is 600 euros, so about 50 such apartments during the season to rent that it is with a fee of 10 to 20% practically annual salary at the level of the Republic of Croatia. Well, I don't think you have any concerns just about those things to control and not allow any malfeasance. And there were speeches on the 5th floor or on the 6th floor, I don't think that's going to happen, that people are very aware, that people and welcome these guests and that they're taking them right to private accommodation. In this way they fill the season, but it happens to us that it is better than the foreign agencies intervening us and that foreign agencies make the amounts, that commission outside of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71543	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71544	A colleague of Jerolimov, given the situation in which the debate has begun, I'll just say two words, give God to this replica of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71545	Final address of Deputy Minister of Tourism Ratomir Ivicic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71546	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a very constructive debate, and let me briefly just look back at some of the questions that are open here. First of all, I would like to say that Internet agencies already exist in our law in Article 20(2), so it's not a newspaper, but it was said that they can operate in business space. Here's the addition that I can also do business in the living room. I would repeat the words of the president of the Assembly Committee on Tourism that 120 people should not be expected to work in one apartment. This is really the motive of this was. We've been getting 50 letters from young unemployed people for the past two months of high professional training, mostly economical, who have some experience in tourism because they live in the neighborhoods by the sea, some informal experiences, so they've been doing something in the agencies. And that's how we wanted them who wait two years at the Employment Service for opportunities they can't actually get because agencies don't exactly encourage their proposals to simply try to enter that entrepreneurship space in an appropriate way when they are, and those who succeed, who will be able to expand to 3, 4 or 10 employees, will naturally have to respect other parts of the law. I think that this proposed amendment of the Committee on Tourism has made it very clear that it is a matter of self-employment. The biggest ones are... The projects almost in the world are heading out of the garage, we don't think now, but we know when we tell the garage what we're actually thinking. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is very important that what I see part of the MPs refer to security what may be very important to the safety of the guests, the security of payment. And the same regulations apply to these agencies and to all other agencies. This is prescribed in Article 18, guarantees must be paid for each arrangement. In Article 19, the travel agency is obliged to conclude an insurance agreement with the insurance company... Therefore, nothing in this sense changes or in any way brings the guest into a more risky position or into a less secure position than other agencies that have walking spaces, entry off the street or have 50 employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will remind myself, unfortunately, of a case that took place two years ago, one of the oldest agencies in Croatia 90 years old had the best space in all Croatian cities, and unfortunately it no longer works. So it's not even to have space on the street or in a good place is not a guarantee that protects guests, it's part of one image but guarantees are actually achieved by these regulations in Articles 18 and 19. These changes are also on track and the tourism development strategy itself because one of the main guidelines is to promote competitiveness. This way we don't think we're going to do a miracle in tourism by letting someone open an Internet agency with two employees. But we think we're creating room for a little healthy competition. And that was actually the goal. Not someone who hires himself can endanger someone who has 20 employees or 30 or who has been working for 80 years. Let's face it, I think it's pretty much like that. Maybe one of them will succeed, someone won't in life it's like that but it happens to those who have been established, who have been operating for 50 years on the market. All business leaders had before they had an obligation to have two years of internship and exam, unfortunately that didn't save them from possibly bad business. We suggest that the internship be replaced by experience, experience can be gained by work, some colleagues mentioned that the internship includes the one where someone cooks coffee. However, we really wanted to provide, open up the possibility for young people to enter that entrepreneurship space, is not a guarantee and will succeed, but this is one chance that they don't have to have a million or 2 euros to get into that space. And finally, according to the conclusion of the Tourism Committee I attended, on behalf of the promoters, we accepted, of course, the proposals of the two amendments, which restrict the number of employees in two, in such a way that the owner of the agency and the business must have a place of residence in that apartment so as not to have any abuses and restrictions on two employees, of which the founder of the Internet, therefore I said this must have a residence and to replace the work experience. Tomorrow, the government will discuss these amendments and I believe we will vote on Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71547	Thank you. We've registered three replicas. First honoured Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71548	Thank you. Yet we have not heard a more meaningfully reasoned way of protecting ourselves, or which law protects against abuse after the opening of such an agency. You mentioned he had to have a place at that address. It's also very easy to play today. We know what happened with the voter lists, we know everything about how things were going, so abuse is possible. Internet abuse is today one of the major crimes in the world. That's billions, billions of euros and dollars, the crime that's going on online. I simply do not believe that the mechanisms present in this law are sufficient to protect all those involved in the tourism activity, especially the provision of these services that are in this law and I simply do not see an effective way to really prohibit abuses, i.e. to reduce to as little measure as possible. I think it should really be a little bit more serious to promote it again, consider. You speak equally, I agree that young people should be given a chance and that they should be given opportunities and self-employment. But this is also about differences between other agencies and core capital and space. So here you still have some guarantees that this is a serious entrepreneur, but in this way it seems to me that there are not enough clear guarantees that it is serious entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71549	Another replica, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71550	Thank you. Well, I must admit, I personally like it if you came into this because you received 50 letters from young people who want to work in the sector, so if you're showing as a resort really such flexibility that in this way you open up some space to legal changes because of the need of the labour market, then I really can't order anything but for young people to start writing about other resolutions and other ministries. Perhaps they too show equal agility as you do in opening space for a private initiative. So, since this has never happened before, maybe Agrokor recently announced that they have 16,000 letters from young people who have sent them letters and their lifes and that they are waiting for their place of work, that they exist at their base. At the employment office we have an even bigger base of these young people waiting for the same solutions of their existence. And once again, it's not generally bad, but it's bad when it happens extremely unequal because in other sectors we don't have this kind of solution. Similarly it happened with membership in the chamber when we said here's the Agricultural Chamber we abolish mandatory membership, and in all other chambers remains mandatory membership. This model kind of reminds me of this event and then as one leap in one segment that is a bit unusual from the usual practice, although I say it is nice because I really am a supporter of flexibilization and a significant relief of employment, facilitating job creation, but it is not a practice in other resolutions, so this case is kind of like this, and then we call on it to be abuse, it won't be similar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71551	And the third replica, Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71552	Thank you very much. So, dear Deputy Minister Ivičić, you said with the internet travel agency without business space there is no unfair competition in relation to those so far registered. Of course not, any of those tourist agencies, whether they were the Internet, should have a business space, meaning they should either be rented or the existing living space should have been re-scheduled. For re-use, it was necessary to change the location permit and then change the building permit. You have to pay the communal fee more expensive, you have to pay more expensive electricity, water and more, all the other communals. Then how is it not unfair competition for these who will now be able to do so in their living space?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71553	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71554	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the provision of services in tourism, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 614; The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Tourism Committee. I would like the representative of the Proposer, Ratomir Ivčić, Deputy Minister of Tourism to show about Amendment 1
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71555	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71556	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number two, deputy deputy minister of the same committee. Hello, Deputy Minister, another amendment number 2 to Article 8 of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71557	The government also accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71558	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I conclude the debate, I give the vote Final bill, please raise your hand, and for this law it is also necessary to take half the total number of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, 76 votes to pass the bill, raise your hand. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 103 votes in favour, 9 abstentions have been passed a law amending and supplementing the Tourism Services Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71559	We move to the next point, that is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on host activity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 613 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the laws of the Committee on Law, the Committee on Tourism and the Committee on Economy. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposal's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of Tourism Ratomir Ivicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71560	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, please allow a few introductory sentences under the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Hosting Activity with the final draft law. In view of the fact that on 31 January 2014, the State Inspectorate ceased to work in the course of the amendments and the addition of the Law on the establishment and division of the Ministry and of other central authorities, the Ministry of Tourism shall take the responsibility of carrying out inspection tasks in the field of catering activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71561	Thank you. I ask if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? What? And you're not finished. Come on, then finish up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71562	Excuse me. Excuse me. This proposal proposes that inspection supervision of the implementation of the Law on Food Activity be carried out by tourist inspectors of the Ministry of Tourism, that the Law on the Food Activity is no longer subject to the control of the conduct of unregistered catering activities or by respecting the prohibition of public advertising or advertising of unregistered catering service providers, as it will be supervised and sanctioned under the special Law on the prohibition and prevention of the conduct of unregistered activities. In addition, it is also proposed to delete the obligation of the previous consent of the sanitary inspector to meet the sanitary conditions when it comes to providing catering services outside the catering facility. In accordance with the new regulations of the Ministry of Health which comply with the relevant EU rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71563	Thank you. On behalf of the Tourism Committee, a respected colleague, Beus-Richembergh, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71564	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. At its 28th session held on 11 February 2014, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hosting Activity with the Final Proposal for a Law as a parent working body pursuant to Article 77 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. As of today, the applicant’s representative explained the reasons for the adoption of the law in question by an urgent procedure, and the content of the amendments and additions itself. I am obliged to say that in the debate, the applicant was asked a question related to the possibility of carrying out catering activities by pensioners’ associations, or pensioners’ clubs, exclusively for their members in their own premises. And that the proposaler’s representative has given an explanation in his reply that pensioners’ associations will not continue to be able to provide their members with catering services since they are not able to meet the rigorous conditions that are commonly applied when it comes to providing catering services in particular to serving alcoholic beverages. After the debate was concluded, the chairman proposed the conclusion, and the Committee adopted the conclusion that the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament proposed to the majority of the votes, 6 for, 2 against the Croatian Parliament, the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hosting Activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71565	Thank you. I'm opening a debate and calling again for a pay phone from a respected colleague, Goran Beusa-Richembergh, to introduce us to the position of the HNS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71566	Thank you very much. As far as the HNS Club is concerned, we will support these changes. They are not extensive, only a few details change but important. First of all, we are in line with the new system, i.e. the structure of the state inspection system, the powers of different inspection branches are distinguished. What is important here is also the abolition of a former provision that actually means the removal of some administrative barriers and liberalisation of treatment under those conditions that were previously defined as the obligation to act as the prior consent of the sanitary inspector. In that case, it is therefore a matter of simplifying the procedure. As liberals, this is always nice to us, and we always support the reduction of procedures and the reduction of administration. In that sense, I support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71567	Thank you. The position of the SDP club will be expressed by Đurdjica Plancic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71568	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. The Household Activity Act was passed in 2006 and its amendments and additions were carried out in 2008, 2009 and 2010. This assembly of parliament also changed the law on two occasions, for the first time in April 2012, when it was better arranged to carry out activities in the camps, the maximum capacity for home accommodation services was increased, allowed to continue activities in an earlier categorized facility, and allowed the heirs of the tenants to continue to provide accommodation in registered facilities. The second amendment and addition were carried out in June 2013 and then the possibility was given to citizens who do not have the necessary permits for their facilities so that they could provide accommodation services based on a temporary solution provided that they submitted a request for legalisation of the facility. And it is also given to manage the activities of renting to family members and owners of a categorized facility. These improvements in the law remove certain obstacles to the implementation of catering activities and significantly reduce administration in the issue of a solution. The main objective of these changes was to put into operation as much of the accommodation capacity as possible, thereby increasing revenue from tourism. But what is particularly important also affects the reduction of the grey economy in this activity. We have yet another amendment to this law, which is primarily in line with the provisions of the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of Ministrys and other central bodies of the State Administration. The latest amendments to that law have been abolished by the State Inspectorate. Inspectives in the field of hospitality have been placed in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Tourism. In doing so, the Ministry of Tourism becomes competent only for the supervision of those entities which provide services contrary to solutions issued by the competent authorities. At the same time, it is proposed to distinguish the competence of this ministry and the Ministry of Finance, which is already the basis of the Law prohibiting and preventing unregistered activity from being carried out in 2011. It is estimated that this very clear demarcation of competence will contribute to better and more efficient action and one and other inspections, which is certainly the most effective activity in countering abuse both in providing catering services and in public advertising or in advertising unregistered entities are reducing the grey economy. In addition to the provisions of the applicable law, the provision of an obligation to comply with the prior consent of the sanitary inspection shall be deleted when catering services are provided outside the catering facility. The reason is that, in such cases, Regulation (EC) No 1906/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council applies directly to the application of the EC Regulation. 852 of 2004 and Regulation (EC) No 219 of 2009 on the hygiene of food prescribed the primary responsibility of the service provider, the preparation and service of meals, drinks, drinks and sweets. This amendment shall end with the harmonisation of the infringement provisions and the name of the competent inspectors and bodies to which solutions are provided with the proposed legislative text itself or with the competences of the ministries. The Social Democratic Party Club will support the amendments and additions of this law because they will probably bring more and probably what we firmly believe to be more orderly in carrying out this for our country of extremely important activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71569	Thank you. The IDS Club represents Walter Boluncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71570	Good evening! Here is this law, i.e. the orange, has slightly smaller changes which are mostly technical and are related to the harmonisation of the distribution of jobs after the end of the work of the State Inspectorate. The biggest change here relates to the fact that food and beverages outside the catering facility should now not be required for special consent of the sanitary inspector because it is in accordance with other European regulations. We'll support this law as a club. We would just like to briefly mention certain remarks or suggestions that the craftsman’s chamber may make, so that the part relating to the householder is given to the Ministry and that it might consider them in some of the subsequent amendments to the law if they are necessarily necessary. Some of the things that are therefore possible in the future time to change the law would be similar to that mentioned earlier for the qualified workforce that works in catering facilities and for the possibility of the working time of the facilities being extended, so the law is given from 0-24 or 6-24 as well as the local community can extend two more hours in certain parts of the year, for example, at New Year's or in summer the local community may extend and the host thinks that the working time should be seen especially in restaurants at certain times in order to take longer and longer. In principle, therefore, the caterer also advocates more control of the catering activity, which is not directly under the catering facilities, but can also be served in some other shops, but definitely these are things that appear more or less continuously, which will later be discussed, and I believe that this is a change in the purely technical remark and we, as the IDS Club and the Independent Representative Furia Radina, will give her support. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71571	Thank you. HDZ Club and Branka Juričev- Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71572	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. So in this law on amendments and additions to the Household Activity Act, the fundamental change is the one relating to supervision, hotel surveillance, apartments, camps, cafe bars, buffets, pizzas, etc. I'd only go back to my county for a little while. Namely, as I said in our Sibenik-Knin County since 1.1, we have a tourist inspector. This tourist inspector, along with those 164 agencies, controls 8 thousand beds in hotels as many as our county has. Our county also has 45 thousand beds in private accommodation, 12 thousand accommodation units in campsites, 12 Marinas and an average annual visit of 450 thousand guests. We also have over 1500 different restaurant-type restaurants, bistros, buffets, cafe bars and the like. And I'm sure in the summer months that inspector will need help. So far, surveillance in these facilities has been carried out by more than 10 inspectors who have now been deployed to customs administration, what the labour inspectorate and others have done and of course that one inspector will not be able to do it in quality and that he will be helped again as well as what is in the Law on Tourist Inspection from the Interior. Of course, we will have to provide these inspectors with accommodation, nutrition and living rooms, and I am very interested in how much this inspection will cost and how much so far, because the main motive and reason for this new reorganisation was the rationalisation of costs. Today, when we talk about surveillance in all the above-mentioned facilities, we can't help but remember both the cases and the protection of guests and the quality of monitoring services since this summer. Namely guests of hotels in Istria and Senj who booked and paid for their vacation in time, and should not forget that they had to save for it first and who decided to spend their euro in our country, were thrown out on the streets or guilty or debtors. More interesting is the fact that the hotel was a tax debtor who was also in debt in January, February and March at a time when he could certainly have been sealed with far less painful consequences for the guests, as well as for the reputation of Croatian tourism. If it had been sealed then, the hoteler could have cancelled his stay in time with an apology and no stress for the guests and for our country's tourism. And this time, I stress that closing the hotel by throwing guests out onto the street would only be allowed to protect people's health or safety. We are all happy to boast that tourism is our most prospective branch of the Croatian economy and that tourism also makes the number of employees significantly increase, especially in the summer months and that this figure is increasing every year. In a sea of bad indicators, only tourism is a bright point. That's our so-called so-called. the invisible exports in which there is no passing of goods or services across the border and this year's revenues in 2013 are recorded by an increase of 11.7%. Despite the economic situation throughout Europe, tourism income has a positive trend. 12.43 million arrivals were made which is 5.5% higher and 72.1 million overnights which is 4.1% higher than the previous year. Tourism is much expected in all respects, and tourism gives a lot even though it does not get what it deserves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71573	Thank you. Frano Matušić reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71574	Thank you. Here's a colleague, it's absolutely inappropriate for a county like yours, which is an extremely tourist county, to actually have only one inspector to take care of all that. You've listed the numbers of some so I don't repeat them now, 8 thousand beds plus 164 agencies and all that you've been counting on. So it's absolutely certain that one person won't be able to do it and that he'll probably be closer to what he's been up to now, and that's 10 people, which means that there won't be rationalization, but that people who will have extra costs will have to be hired, which means that the money will ultimately be needed for this activity in your county will be significantly, significantly higher than it is foreseen in terms of rationalization. But you encouraged me when you started talking about closed facilities. It is absolutely inappropriate to close the catering facilities, as was unfortunately present this summer, and among other things in Dubrovnik, which is the perjanica of Croatian tourism, not only of Croatian tourism, but of European and global and absolutely inappropriate to close the facility for a few days because the team loses not only this entrepreneur but also of the state. She didn't charge VAT either, so it's either triple or multiple damage by such an act. But you should also think, I don't know here until a moment ago he was a representative of the Committee on Tourism, we should consider an initiative that has been directed by the hosts for a while, which is to allow the payment tool to be 8 kuna and the euro. We are in the EU today, an EU that has a euro area and it would be logical to allow payment of euro particularly in the days, say on Sundays not even exchange offices, banks do not therefore have to be made possible to allow the money that comes to that city to be spent, this is a proposal that has gone on many sides.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71575	The replica matches Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71576	Thank you very much. A true colleague, a satisfied guest who leaves a catering facility, a destination or our country is the best promotion. Well said, a good voice is heard far away, and a bad voice still remains. We should not forget that an unsatisfactory guest who has left our country will tell his friends, acquaintances, may also be given to his media and that this is an incorrigible mistake and something that will permanently harm our tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71577	On behalf of the HDSSB club, this is Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71578	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attending Activity actually speaks of a new redesign of inspection services and the jurisdiction of inspection services. Therefore, the State Inspectorate as a corrupt or former institution has been distributed to a number of ministries, and then here in this legislative proposal in this material that is not so abundant, it is well written that this law proposes that inspection supervision of the implementation of the Law on Food Activity be carried out by tourist inspectors of the Ministry of Tourism instead of economic inspectors of the State Inspectorate. Furthermore, to deliver solutions for the provision of catering services to the local competent service of the tourist inspection instead of the competent authority of the State Inspectorate, so this is the one in Sibenik-Knin County, again quoting a colleague from Sibenik-Knin County. Therefore, for the catering activity provided by those who do not have a registered provision of catering services, no more inspection of the Ministry of Tourism is responsible than the inspection of the Ministry of Finance, which is somewhat and understandable, given that an activity which is not registered, if carried out, is then, in any case, subject to someone and sanctions by the Ministry of Finance and is the competent inspection of the Ministry of Finance. When it comes to sanitary inspection, it is interesting, but again with the EU and EU Regulations of the 2004 EU Parliament and of the Council of 2004 on food hygiene, it is interesting that it is directly applicable and the principle of primary responsibility of the food business operator is prescribed. So whoever provides the service or prepares the food is directly responsible, and it does not say here that there is no need for the prior consent of the sanitary inspector, according to the legislative proposal. But Article 2 is an interesting wording that I would like the deputy minister to hear, so that he may explain or explain to us a little bit. So Article 2(3) shows that participants, we can say, and participants do not have to talk to participants, but participants are celebrating, and one nomotechnic and I do not know what kind of mistake or maybe it is not a mistake, so the participants are writing celebrations and events that are organised for the promotional and tourist purposes by local self-government units can provide catering services for the preparation and service of meals, drinks, drinks and sweets at these events. It does not say whether it is in the closed or in the open, and it is usually understood in the open space, which means that for such manifestations there is no need for consent of the sanitary inspection for participants or participants. If I understand correctly, it says so. In addition to this clarification or explanation, I would have finished my presentation and given that the ruling coalition said that it would not want to interfere with its proposals and the consequences of its proposals and therefore would be responsible for the implementation and consequences of the law, and then here are some, since this law has been proposed and the HDSSB would not want to interfere with these consequences, so it will remain abstention on the issue of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71579	Now we have three replicas reported, first Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71580	Thank you very much. Well, you said your colleague Grubisic understood that the Ministry of Finance is performing for the work on black surveillance. It is understandable, but specialising and narrowing down the activities of the inspector will indicate that he will leave the job done more often. For example. When a tourist inspector comes into some facility and finds an offender who works in black, he can't do anything about it. he must come to the office, he must write a memo and forward it to the Customs Administration, and then the customs officer must see when the available vehicle is available and then send that inspector when going in that direction and so on, and so on, surely, the offender certainly does not have that work on black either.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71581	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71582	My colleagues, Juričev-Martinchev, I said that the consequences of the application of this law correspond to the one who prescribed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71583	Second replica Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71584	Thank you. You mentioned your colleague's sanctions against the Ministry of Finance, including sanctions when cash registers are found other than kuna and euro if the euro is found in the registers of catering facilities. So the sanctions are scheduled for that. I've already touched that question in my previous replica now I want it a little clearer I have enough time. So in Dubrovnik they come on Saturdays, Sundays, they come at one point with several cruisers landing 10,000 guests. There's no way these 10,000 people are getting into the exchange room, how long would it take one 5,000 exchange clerks who should be in office on Sunday, which is clearly unreal. Of course, one part will pay with cards, but one part wants to pay with euro. We are a member of the EU in which the euro is a means of payment, so if for this reason since 1.7 last year we should have introduced the possibility that as a member of the EU we have the possibility of paying in catering facilities and with euro, at least we should have respected it and made it easier for those who work in restaurants, who provide tourist activities to facilitate the payment of our services. Because in the end, the guest wants to have coffee, he doesn't have a card with him has a few euros and can pay with a few euros that coffee. But our law does not allow it or sanction those who charge in euro their services even though we are members of the EU. So absolutely illogical, it's one sequence of illogical things that will lead to complete inefficiency in the sector. As counterpart Branka has already said, so a completely inefficient system has been created this way by applying these new legal provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71585	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71586	I'll give you a picture of my colleague Matušić, someone who might mind my speech and my statement. Namely, I traveled by train from Mannheim via Munich, Salzburg to Zagreb and then to Slavonski Brod, and at the stations of the train station Jesenice he entered the train to Jesenice around midnight, and at midnight, an official of the Ljubljanska Banka entered the train and yelled, shouting tolars, tolars. So whoever was going out in the Jesenice could've been on the train in Jesenice. Let our shifters get on the cruise, and as he rides them by boatboats to the shore, let them change the swearing, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71587	The final replica of Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71588	My colleague Grubisic, you know that in our small places across the coast, various festivals and parties are organized in summer, and you have well noticed that in Article 2 to amend Article 11. And I think in item 2 there is nothing questionable that the caterer may occasionally during the duration of the events and other activities of hospitality without the consent of the sanitary inspection. However, I do not understand this in paragraph 3 of the celebrations and events that you have just asked the deputy minister to whom it refers, whether it refers to associations, clubs, sports companies that participate or apply to those who wear stage boards that mount lighting or some singer who has a smaller fee, and he will also have his own stand in front of the stage and stage. And if they have to have red, or sanitary books, and we know that all the hosts are subject even to new nine types of inspections, so who's going to control them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71589	Reply Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71590	Our colleague Jerolimov remains hoping that no one has salmonosis and that he will not have it, so we will be happy, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71591	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71592	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Household Activity Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 613. The debate on the final text of the law is over. I am voting on the final draft of the law, also to pass this law requires most of the total number of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, 76 votes to pass the law and the proposal. Please raise your hand to plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 29 abstentions, have been passed a law amending and supplementing the Household Activity Act as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71593	We move on to: - Final draft law amending the Law on residence tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 615; Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Tourism. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Tourism Ratomir Ivicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71594	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. A few sentences with the proposal for a law amending the Law on residence tax with the final proposal for a law. This proposal for a law proposes to comply with the new regulation relating to inspection supervision, the provisions on how to pay a residence tax, which is now regulated by the Law amending the Law on residence tax, the National Journal, 158 of 2013. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the establishment and division of the ministries and other central bodies of the State Administration ceases the work of the State Inspectorate. The Ministry of Finance takes over, among other things, the supervision of the incomes of the residence tax. These amendments to the Act propose that inspection of the implementation of the Law on residence tax be carried out by the Ministry of Finance instead of the economic inspectors of the State Inspectorate. It is also proposed to amend articles relating to the payment of a residence tax in such a way as not to issue vignettes as evidence of a paid residence tax but an account issued by the competent port captainy. In addition to the residence tax, the fees paid for the safety of navigation and the protection of the sea against pollution as well as the use of navigation safety facilities shall also be shown in that account. These amendments address operational issues related to the arrival of boaters in the Republic of Croatia, simplifying the settlement of the obligations of boaters and reducing unnecessary administration and allowing boaters to carry out their duties quickly and easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71595	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Tonka Ivcevic will speak with respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71596	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. We have before us the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on residence tax which we adopt in an emergency procedure and for reasons of compliance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment and Circular of Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration which are prescribed to cease the work of the State Inspectorate from 1 January 2014 and its work will be carried out by the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Finance. The amendment of this Act provides that the competent inspection of the Ministry of Finance shall monitor the incomes of the residence tax. The Committee on Tourism has suspected that this way income from the residence tax would become the income of the state budget, which is completely unfounded because the Household Court Act is precisely how it is charged and ultimately allocates income from the residence tax. These amendments to the residence tax law also regulates the obligation to pay the tourist tax for the nauticals in a different way. The new legislative proposal abolishs the issue of vignettes already, as evidence of payment of residence fees, to issue an invoice as proof of payment of residence fees. This new model abolishs excessive administration and allows for increased enforcement of nautical obligations. This brings together jobs that are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry, maritime, transport, infrastructure and systems of tourist communities in such a way as to enable boaters to carry out the obligations in question in one place, faster, simpler and less administrative obstacles. In one place, boaters will pay commitments to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport, Infrastructure in a manner identical to previous years and this fee for navigation safety, maritime information map and lighting. And according to the system of tourist communities, sailors for themselves and all persons found on board pay a flat rate of residence tax depending on the length of the vessel and the duration of the stay of the persons on board and in a simpler way without giving the vignette but only accounts as evidence of payment of the tourist tax. The residence tax law, which entered into force in 1.1.2009 as regards nautical tourism, made a major step forward in relation to the old law for the reason that much more funds are collected than the residence tax compared to the previous law. Some 25 million kuna per year is charged from the boat’s tourist tax and what is important includes all boaters. The earlier residence tax was paid as follows. The charter company paid a flat-rate stay tax per bed on a charter vessel that was relatively low, and the charter guests had an obligation in the ports of nautical tourism when trying to pay a tourist tax in transit after the overnight stay of 7 kuna per person per night. Other boaters had an obligation to pay their stay tax after a night's stay at the ports of nautical tourism of 7 kuna per person for a night. Tourist tax was not paid by sailors on a nautical port connection opened for public transport or on anchors, coves and various untegorised berths. As a result, a large part of the residence tax could not be charged. There are, of course, cities and settlements that are popular transit destinations for boatmen and where boaters have achieved a large number of nights. I am particularly emphasising Hvar, Vis, Komižu, Korčula and Mali Losinj. According to the new Law on residence tax, the situation is next. For the charter of the vessel, the tourist tax shall be paid in advance for all persons on board for all days on a charter of 7 kuna per person per night. Other boaters pay a flat-rate stay tax depending on the length of stay in Croatia and the size of the boat. As I have already mentioned, this is how much higher the amount of the residence tax is charged than before, but the problem arises from the distribution of funds that are wrong in my court. According to the provisions of the Regulation on the criteria for payment and use of residence tax paid in the special account of the tourist community during the allocation of the funds, the most likely remains to be cut off are those cities and settlements where the largest transit of sailors, or those who make the most of the nights. These are the mahom of a small island destination. Here I will briefly give an example of the city of Komiža which has nautical connections in the international port open to public traffic with cca 40 connections. In the port there are cca 50,000 overnight stays, which would charge us 350,000 kuna in our office, of which 40 would belong to the tourist community in which tourist traffic is made, which would mean a revenue of 140.000 kuna. How about the amount of funds that will belong to a particular tourist community in whose area the boatmen choose a commission appointed by the county, in which there are no representatives of the tourism communities of the lower structure, and according to criteria that do not reflect the real situation on the ground, so the tourist community of the city of Komiza achieves 112 000 kuna or 28 000 kuna less than it should. A lot more severed islet destinations with more nautical transit connections. For example. The town of Vis which makes 100,000 overnight stays, from the tourist tax, the boatman receives 130 000 kuna per year, i.e. as much as 150 000 kuna less than it belongs to. In doing so, it is necessary to discuss how to distribute funds from the tourist tax currently available to the tourists: 40% of the tourist communities in whose areas tourist traffic is achieved, 10% of the national parks and nature parks in which the traffic is made in nautical tourism and the remaining 50% of the resources to the Croatian tourist community used to improve the conditions of development and promotion of nautical tourism. I suggest that 50% of the tourist tax is allocated to tourist communities in whose area the boatmen are staying, that 10% are allocated to tourist communities in which tourist traffic is made in place instead of national parks and nature parks, since national parks charge tickets to boaters anyway, and tourist communities in areas where national parks are participated in the distribution of 40% of the revenues from the tourist tax of the boaters. The rest of 40% would be allocated to the Croatian tourist community. It is clear to all that 40% of the funds that should be paid to tourist communities in whose areas tourist traffic is achieved do not end up in tourist communities of cities and municipalities where this traffic is indeed being achieved. It is therefore necessary to draw up a whole new rule on criteria for the payment and use of residence tax paid in the special account of the tourist community in which the basic criterion for the allocation of funds will be achieved overnight stays in the ports of nautical tourism and ports open to public transport. I therefore ask the Minister and the Deputy Minister present here to consider this proposal and to amend that regulation within the framework of his or her competences as prescribed by the Housing Tax Act. In spite of the fact that the ports of nautical tourism no longer charge a residence tax, they keep records of the number of sailing and the number of guests in transit, and the same should be done by port administrations in nautical parts of ports opened for public transport. For example, Komiza and Visa see that this is done regularly. Based on data collected from ports of nautical tourism and ports open for public transport, funds would be allocated to tourist communities in which tourist transport is achieved. I therefore propose that the criteria for the allocation of the income of the tourist tax be as follows: the number of arrivals in ports of nautical tourism and nautical parts of ports opened for public transport and concessioned anchors, the number of overnight stays in such ports, and the number of nautical berths again in ports of nautical tourism and nautical parts of ports opened for public transport, and anchors. The necessary assumption for the proposed distribution of revenue is the introduction of a single system of records of the transport of vessels and passengers of sailors in nautical parts of ports opened for public transport and ports of nautical tourism which, in part, exists in the cooperation of two ministries, the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. In this way we would come up with information about the real number of nautical connections in Croatia, the number of nautical ports and the like. We also see good cooperation between these two ministries in this proposal for a law amending the Law on residence tax. Therefore, the SDP club will support these changes, and I hope the minister will also support some of the initiatives that I have brought here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71597	The initiatives of truth have little to do with the proposed law. On behalf of the HNS club, Nada Turina-Đuric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71598	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here is very short, given that it is, in one part, a technical change, i.e. an amendment to the competences of the ministries relating to the payment of the residence tax. It's something that, based on everything we've decided so far, given the jurisdiction of inspection and surveillance, we think it's logical. And what we would like to particularly welcome here is in fact to simplify the process of charging the tourist tax for the boaters. We believe that otherwise the area of nautical tourism as part of the selective, one part of the selective form of tourism in the Republic of Croatia is extremely important and still perhaps not sufficiently developed, or not used throughout the system in tourism. It is certain that this part that goes towards simplifying the registration of tourists in the Republic of Croatia is also going towards the fact that one part of them who are our guests and has a lot to welcome them to this decision by our government and perhaps to spread the good news to some of their friends who are staying in other destinations as boaters because we know that even when the vignettes were introduced in time, how many calls were made in this way and on obligations where our boaters unfortunately wasted a lot of time or those who rented boats also a lot of time to start these papers, i.e. paying these bills. It is justified to expect that certain growth in tourism will also be achieved on the basis of this proposal, and it is also expected that as the colleague said it would increase and revenues, it means that a certain order will be introduced. All of what my colleague said because I didn't know she was going to say it, and I heard it for the first time. I think we can welcome these initiatives of hers. Is it possible at this point to install it in the bill of this law I don't know, that's what the ministry colleagues will say. But it certainly sounds logical and that the Croatian People's Party would welcome these initiatives by a colleague from the SDP. Thank you very much. We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71599	In the name of the HDZ Club, Ante Jerolimov will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71600	I would like to thank the Vice President, my dear deputy, my colleagues and my colleagues. In the beginning, we must say that when we saw that the proposed law was addressed in the parliamentary procedure that we expected the legislator, that he had seen one need to look at the whole law and that he would have heard a lot of remarks and suggestions both for tourist workers and for the home tourism committee, that these changes and additions to the residence tax would try to work, to improve some of the solutions that were made in some better times for both the tourist communities and for local self-government units. First of all, we believe that the distribution of the payment system of tourist tax from nautical tourism is bad, unfair and unfavourable for tourist communities, but also for local self-government units. So, where those nights come true. I also calculate the corresponding income to a particular tourist community is extremely complicated and illogical. Namely, of the total revenue from the nautical tourist tax 40% of the amount goes to the county tourist communities, 10% goes to national parks and 50% to HTZ. The income distribution system itself belonging to a particular county tourist community is determined according to data that do not correspond at all to the actual results achieved on the ground. That's what my colleague Ivcevic was talking about. However, it is only the beginning of the collapse that happens when the 40% that belongs to the county tourist communities is shared. Why is this the beginning of destruction? Because this county tourist community takes 10%, and for the remaining 30 it establishes a commission which is then based on the criteria and rules on the use of paid travel tax in a special HTZ account it distributes money in local tourist communities. And the criterion and evaluation of certain indicators is far from credible and just. Here I'm going to read you about what it looks like, and then you have indicators in that rule and points with what it's all stuck with, so it's divided into several groups, the arrangements of the port of nautical tourism, additional offers, traffic connections, and now what's most important for a boatman for a category of marina is two to five points. The anchor is paved with one point, a single point berth, a one-point waterway dump with one point, a dry marina with one point, a service activity, an info office that will inform him of some things also with one point. If fuel is to be refueled at the gas station, it's only worth one point. The availability of medical services is also valued with one point, but the additional offer is therefore worth it. If he has a diving or sailing school, he's worth three points. If you have a service activity, restaurant, confectionery and tavern, it is also worth three points. Or, for example, The store and it's worth an extra three points. I think it's bad, that it's not fair, and mostly the result of such a score is that some tourist community that has a Marina in its area of several hundred bonds ultimately gets less money than some tourist community that has a few dozen bonds. It is also important to stress that it is a particular tourist Maling, to the tourist communities on our coast, almost half of the total income received from the funds of the tourist tax. What is also bad and not to say regrettable is that the local self-government unit does not get anything from distribution and on the other hand it is obliged to provide a number of services needed to allow nautical tourism to take place in this area. The second item, which we also expected to be reviewed, has been so far given to national parks and nature parks of 10%. At some point in 2008, in 2009, it was probably necessary and well, and these parks today grew to good public institutions that manage space, to them from day to day more visitors, and since they are revenueing from ticket sales to visitors and that the law also said that the residence tax is exclusively the income of tourist communities we believe that such a decision should be reviewed at the very least. Thirdly, the current way of charging a tourist tax has lifted the obligation to record the number of overnight stays reached in the Marinas who do not report their guests to tourist communities or ports of nautical tourism the same thing other than those nights that are in the charter, thus reducing the number of overnight stays and the actual collection of individual tourist communities. In view of all of the above, we believe it is necessary to prescribe the obligation to record the nights of nautical tourism in the ports of nautical tourism, and according to the number of nights achieved, and to allocate the funds collected from residence fees, rather than on the basis of some moles and haired indicators of the regulations, to allocate funds. The question and the role of HTZ is asked here, and the role of HTZ, we know that the law provides that the HTZ of those 50% should be reinvested in marketing, promotion, in certain markets and fairs, and it is simply not clear to us if guests do not report that they will even know where these guests are coming from, where they should be invested, where they need to invest propaganda because it does not mean that the ship that applied to the port captainship and the flag is let's say that all the passengers on it and the Italians are also French or some other nationality. Also proposed laws of a regulated doubt that arises in practice when a guest who came to Marina with his water facility and at the same time the night at the hotel, whom he pays the tourist tax, in practice they charge him both, paid the boat fee, and the one at the hotel also charged him a tourist tax. On the residence fee of the so-called Vikings who have their property in some environment where there is no residence and who regularly pays the communal fee and the holiday tax I won't even talk about it, I'll leave it to the promoter to consider whether the man in his house should pay the residence tax. So, the promoter did not address these serious problems that we warn about, which were warned not only by tourist workers, not only by people from tourist communities but also by the parent board of the Croatian Parliament who had reached some conclusion on 26 April 2012 with similar views. Instead, it was completely ignored, only some cosmetic changes were proposed in eight articles of the said law. Thus, the proposed amendments concerning the three articles of the introductory and final provisions, one article of the criminal provisions relating to sailors who had not paid a residence fee to the competent tourist community, two articles refer to the old sin of rapid abolition of the State Inspectorate, and so far, the tasks in its jurisdiction are entrusted to the inspection of the Ministry of Finance and one article and this Article 2 which determines that the method of payment of the flat-rate fee for nauticals will be prescribed by the Minister of Tourism. And this whole law is actually the essence of the minister prescribing everything else with his rule. Which is why we can also know what we can talk about today, discuss, and perhaps the vice president has said well that we have turned everyone off the topic because this law is difficult to discuss with the proposed one. You have nothing to discuss here, because for all that is important for the tourist tax, as it determines the height of the flat-rate tourist tax for the nauticals, which are categories, which are the size of the vessel, for which the time period is paid, in which way, where and how, it will be prescribed by the minister by the regulation. So the most representative and legislative body will have no idea if one of us doesn't read it in the National Journal. But they probably wouldn't know anything then, because, after the regulations and the Government, it brings the Regulation establishing the level of residence fees for the current year so that I don't bother you there's everything that should be, from the class of tourist resort, from the main season, before the season, under the season, beyond the season, what the prices of the tourist tax are, which is the class of the tourist spot, which the coefficient has in relation to the household rate, for the weekends, for the boaters and for the boats to be divided into 5, 9 meters, 9, 12 etc., that I don't read to you now with amounts in kunas and the time period of 8, 15, 30, 90 days or 90 days. Unfortunately, that is not all because the applicant added another article related to the authority of the tourism minister referred to in Article 2 which says the minister will adopt that Regulation within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this law. First, does it really take a ministry attorney six months to put together 10 articles of one Regulation? I think Mr. Shakespeare or Professor Craiger would have put it together for the rest of this debate. Second, since it is possible for the law to be passed and effective somewhere near March 1st, it is theoretically possible for the Minister of Regulation to pass after the tourist season and be within the deadline set by the Croatian Parliament. You're all looking at it and you're going to say it's impossible, but make sure everything is possible with us, and here's an example that people, small tenants, hotelers this summer, since we entered the EU on 01/07, and by 01/07 it was said that every foreigner's ministry had to apply, people were in doubt whether they were doing it after 01/07 for those citizens coming from the EU or not. And of course that doubt was solved effectively by the Ministry of Tourism, but you know when? On 06 September 2013, it sent information to the Croatian Tourist Community, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Employers, family small hotels, camping associations and everyone else that it had entered into force and that it no longer needed to register guests to the Ministry of the Interior. Here, because of all these allegations and we have expected one whole law, a law that will be passed perhaps even at the same time as the Law on Tourist Communities for all of these reasons, and believing that at least part of this will be incorporated into this new Law on residence tax in tourist communities, the HDZ Club will not support any changes and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71601	Two replicas. First Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71602	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jerolimov, you have well stated the reasons why the HDZ Club cannot support such legislation and we expect the Ministry of Tourism to really approach the whole change of the law itself. On the trail of what you said and the work of what Mrs. Ivcevic said. Namely, the fact is that this solution, which today refers to paying the tourist tax of sailors in Croatian nautical tourism, is not in a certain way fair in the first row towards local self-government units. Therefore, it is necessary to address the issue of payment of the tourist tax of the nauticals who spend a certain part of the year in the Republic of Croatia in one whole way because neither the provision by which most of the residence tax is paid towards the length of the vessel, etc. And this one, as you yourself have cited the gaps over the schedule of the tourist tax, is not good, and what Mrs. Ivcevic said, certain units of local self-government whose area is on the port... traffic, and it is not the port of nautical tourism, as a rule it suffers and receives less income from the residence tax than it belongs to. Although it is not what Mrs. Ivcevic said entirely fair because it may happen that the residence tax may, for example, be paid in Trogir, and the entire stay takes place in the area of the second county and other unit of local self-government and, according to that criterion, the income would, for example, be paid to Trogir even though only the residence tax was paid there. It would therefore be good if the Ministry of Finance were to make a proposal for a fairer payment before this summer and, more importantly, a fairer distribution of the fee paid by the boatmen. In the strategy for the development of nautical tourism until 2019, one of the measures in the action plan was exactly what you were talking about, and it would be good for the Ministry of Tourism to take part in it and then have already expressed doubts and doubts about this distribution to approach the realization and make such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71603	The replica matches Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71604	Comrade Bačić, you have said everything perfectly, is not a tendency and the goal of cutting someone off and not reaching some consensus about that distribution and that those who have fewer connections and are not in a position to have marinas or ports of nautical tourism because the port is open to public traffic not to get anything, but can not go to the heart of those who have and therefore be pawned, and it was sometimes as much as I remember that from the 7 days that are in the charter, 2 days would be booked at departure, and 5 days to everything else, and then those 3, 4 or 5 days could be left in one mass, and 2 days directly enrolled in marinas or this Regulation that already exists, adapt it to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71605	Second replica, Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71606	My colleague Jerolimov, in part, touched my replica and my colleague Bačić related to the units of local self-government, but you mentioned in your speech, but you said you would not talk about it and about the residence fees for the use of weekend houses. We are all witnesses, here is an example of the island of Krk where a large number of practically foreign citizens, let's say Slovenians and around has a weekend home, and we all know in what way this key travels from family to family, in which way to jump to this problem because weekend houses are used in the way they use, how much of this use of such houses are received by both the tourist community and local self-government and the entire community, and perhaps it would be good to pay special attention to this issue, that everything is possible with us, I agree with you, that this Regulation and the regulation without the Assembly can come at the end of the tourist season, given how fast such work can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71607	The replica matches Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71608	So you're right fellow Klaric, owners of the holiday house and members of their families if the holiday house is the original old family house acquired by an heir who had the last residence in the tourist municipality or the city will not pay that stay tax or the regulation gave them some relief for those weekends. But here in Dalmatia, we kind of always look at these weekends as some people I don't have to say to skin or not to skin, and that's the truth. And it's mostly in my community that kind of attitude, and that's how it is, and our people aren't rich enough to pay all those taxes that they are. But I do think that this is really an imposition if a man is staying in his house, if it's his house, if he pays communal fees regularly, if he pays taxes on the holiday house that it's totally rude to charge him and the residence tax and that there should be some changes to the law. And what a man should pay for is garbage, water and all the other things he may use to a lesser extent than a domicile one must. But I don't think this fee should be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71609	On behalf of the IDS Club, the respected Walter Boluncic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71610	Good evening again. Here on behalf of the IDS Club of Independent Representative Furi Radina we will give support to this law. The law is the same as the previous technical nature, which has now been transferred to the Ministry of Finance by a part of the activities so far done by the State Inspectorate. There have been a number of proposals here that certainly deserve attention about the division of the tourist tax, around the holiday house, although in principle they are except for the communal fees they give for a house of a particular local community have a whole range of other costs, which if the person does not pay because there is no place of residence because there is no income tax. So that question doesn't have just one side of the medal as it would say, there's a whole series of donations that we need to make, which come from our income tax, it's because we're registered in that place, from public transportation and all the more and more facts that are used. The part where I would like to stay here is the next bit and in terms of the budget that we have is that the residence tax must be made even though it enters the Ministry of Finance, I hope that it will continue to remain under the rules on a special thread and will definitely return to the account of how the HTZ local, tourist community was deployed, nautical tourism. What would not be good would be that the residence tax is directed to another continent because of certain needs. Tourism is still a very important branch of our own. He doesn't grow and he doesn't come by himself anymore, so it's not something that fell from the sky, and it's going to happen or not. Our agencies, our tourist communities, and all those involved in this from a place that is by the sea to be arranged from a place of interior that has yet to take a step towards it, need this money that is definitely used to improve cultural developments from the roads since the expansion of the offer and from various activities. That is why, even though the law predicts it, but so far it has been perhaps under greater authority from the Ministry of Tourism, we appeal to the fact that this money is definitely coming back for the needs of promotion and development of tourism in Croatia. We will give support to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71611	Thank you. There's been a single debate reported. Dear Mladen Marelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71612	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy with a colleague. I think tonight's debate on this is interesting for us coasts and islanders because nautical tourism is one of the main tenants of domestic tourism. The law proposes to reduce unnecessary administration and to make it easier to comply with nautical obligations. In this context, it is prescribed that, as evidence of a paid residence tax, the vignettes are no longer issued but the bills to be issued by the port captains to the boaters. It shall be authorised by the Ministry of Tourism to provide more detailed arrangements for the payment of the flat-rate amount on the tourist tax of the nauticals. The supervision of income on residence tax will no longer be done by the competent tourism ministry but by the Ministry of Finance. In order to improve the planned development of tourism, it is necessary to record traffic in nautical tourism in tourist communities in the landing sites of the vessel, so in places where guests live and use tourist infrastructure and counterstructure. It is therefore necessary to withdraw the sublegal act which prescribes that the residence tax is paid in places of boarding guests using catering accommodation services on vessels of nautical tourism. The tourism community system performs an important task, records of the number of nights, arrivals of guests, however, in nautical tourism a selective form which has been seen as one of the significant forms in the Republic of Croatia and which has a very progressive trend of growth, the tourist community does not monitor movements or have insight into the records because the collection of tourist tax is done by port captains. So there is no database for serious systematic planning of the tourist development of an area that is necessary for an analysis of the existing state of development. Furthermore, I would like to stress that, in addition to the record of the number of guests in nautical tourism, there is a need to charge a guest fee which would be an appropriate compensation for direct and indirect services provided to the guest in the port of consent. I can freely say that the tourist community of the city of Korčula in 2008 collected about 350 thousand from this way. And already in 2013, it came to 50 grand. So the big drop is the way to pick up a residence tax like that. It is also a registration by county itself, because we happen to have the registration of existing guests not in the same county because the boardings are mostly in other counties, an example to Split or some other port, and this is not at all marked in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. And complete reports that are not accurate but for this area are quite different. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71613	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71614	Final draft law amending the Law on residence tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 615. The debate on the final text of the law is over. I am voting on the final draft of the law. And for the adoption of this law, most of the votes of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament are required, in accordance with Article 252. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please raise your hand to plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 83 votes in favour, 27 abstentions, have been passed a law amending the residence tax law in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71615	- Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on construction products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 616; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. The opening proposal will be explained by Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Mr Zeljko Uhlir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71616	I thank the esteemed vice presidents, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The proposed amendments to the Construction Products Act are proposed for reasons of changing competence from the State Inspectorate to the Ministry of Economy in part of the inspection over which the market for construction products should be regulated. An emergency procedure is also proposed to make it more effective to monitor the market. That's what I'd like to thank you for, and I'd like to propose.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71617	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, colleague Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71618	Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister of Spatial Planning and Construction. Usually these points come at this time and given the amount and the importance of these changes I will try not to be too long. What we as the Croatian People's Party Club would like to give special attention to, and that is the question, how to carry out the inspection itself. Normally, the inspection services, the inspection is tasked with introducing order into the system. But if only that order is introduced into the system by repression and punishment, we think that's not the best way to do it. That no system can be maintained only by repression and only by punishment. That is why we believe that inspection services, and in this case too, should be taken into account primarily to introduce order into the system and sometimes the good word is much more quality than any punishment. The important Law on Construction Products, which we adopted last year in the 6th month and began to apply on 1 July 2013, brought our legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union, which essentially refers to how to place construction products on the market and move within the European Economic Area, as well as issues related to construction products in an uncoordinated area for which free movement in the European Economic Area is regulated. Because we have a piece of product and goods that can only appear on local markets. What is important is that during the month of September, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted guidelines for economic and fiscal policy for the period 2014-2016, and that time there was a transformation of the State Inspectorate where individual inspections went towards the relevant ministries. In this case, it is said that these inspectors who were in the inspection are now heading towards the Ministry of Economy which we are in any case supporting. In addition, this Law also resolved the way in which certain products are placed on the Croatian market. We believe that it is certainly good that each product must also have a specific certificate, a certain specification, a certain assessment. It is also a question of identifying both Croatian and Latin letters. We believe that this law is in the spirit of all these changes that have taken place in the matter of new arrangements. And we believe that these measures that this law makes will bring some order to the market with construction products in the Republic of Croatia. This law also addresses both the issue and the manufacturer, the issue of importers, the issue of distributors, and what are the penalties and the ways in which it is controlled. The Croatian People's Party will support, support these changes because they are more in the domain of this complete reconstruction of the State Inspectorate and we think these are logical. So we support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71619	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71620	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Construction Products, the SDP Club will support these amendments because they, as my predecessor said, are logical because they are in line with the guidelines of economic and fiscal policy for the period 2014-2016, and also with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Fraction of Ministrys and other Central Authorities of State Administration. This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 July 2013 and shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 89/106, the conditions for the working and handling of the body responsible for implementing the regulation and other issues relevant for the placing on the market and making available on the market of construction products. As I pointed out in advance, at my session held on 26 September 2013. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted guidelines for economic and fiscal policy for the period 2014-2016 and one of the planned measures is the transformation of the State Inspectorate. In view of the actual change in the competence of the State Inspectorate, it is necessary to initiate an emergency procedure for amending specific laws in order to determine the actual competence to carry out the inspection tasks undertaken. As well as the Law on Construction Products, which is in line with the provisions contained in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of Ministrys and other central bodies of the State Administration. It entered into force on 1 January 2014 and was then terminated by the State Inspectorate, and therefore these amendments and amendments to the law are necessary in an urgent manner. As mentioned above, the SDP club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71621	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71622	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Sir Deputy, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club won't support law-making, and I'm going to say the reasons why we can't support it. First of all, I think that the error in the very assessment of the situation and the fundamental question is when the law and the consequences of the law are to be regulated. In this assessment, it is said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted economic and fiscal policy guidelines for the period 2014-2016 at the 117th session held on 26 September. One of the planned measures is the transformation of the State Inspectorate. Here I have made an effort to print on the government's pages the guidelines of economic and fiscal policy for that period, and there is not a single word in this document, Mr. Deputy, on the transformation of the State Inspectorate. I suppose, since the government has later implemented a number of laws to transform, or valleys, the State Inspectorate, that it is an integral part of another government document that was adopted that same day. But in this document to which the government relates in the assessment of the situation and the fundamental issues to be regulated by law, there is no word on the abolition of the State Inspectorate. However, the State Inspectorate is listed and mentioned for 2014 under heading 225. And '16. A year. So I think there was probably some awkwardly written opening argument or, as I say, on that day, the government adopted another document that really established the measure, the transformation of the State Inspectorate. So that's one of the reasons. The second reason that we normally mentioned in the HDZ Club when we talked about the abolition of the State Inspectorate, that the Government had come to this demanding and complex process without an adequate analysis of the situation, without the relevant data or were not delivered to us, which would have contributed and justified the procedures to actually doze the State Inspectorate and that certain inspections contained in the framework of the Inspectorate were joined by the relevant ministries, in the first row of the Ministry of Economy. In addition to this, we have referred to the reasons relating to the question of secondary resolution within the same ministry of possible conflict of interest, etc., which, in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, cannot be properly solved in an institution which is resolved in the first and second stages. I know that in the Ministry of Civil Engineering, where you come from, it was jumped in a way that individual commissions were established in the same ministry, which was appointed by the minister, who in the ministry dealt with in the second degree. Therefore, it is a clumsy solution and this approach is not good and I believe that it is indeed one of the shortcomings suffered by such a central state body organisation when it is resolved in the same institution in the first and second stages. Therefore, it is a kind of conflict of interest, and I think, on the other hand, such an approach in which the State Inspectorate is abolished and resolved in one ministry which, otherwise, proposes acts and brings solutions, is not a good solution. The third reason why we hold that such a solution is not good is the fact that when we talk about the supervision and control of construction products, then the intelligence and competence for monitoring and implementing procedures is implemented as at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, on the one hand, at the Ministry of Economy. Namely, the Ministry of Economy monitors and monitors the production of construction products either in cements, or in bakeries, or in any other factory or place of manufacture of the product. That's one part that's in the power of the Ministry of Economy. However, the second most important part of the monitoring of the quality and use of construction products is carried out by the home ministry, i.e. The Department of Construction and Spatial Planning. Since this is a very important part of the construction and construction of buildings, the building in the Republic of Croatia is not clear to me why the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction by its own regulation on systemization, i.e. the formation of the ministry, has abolished and completed the department for, precisely, the implementation of quality monitoring of built-in construction products. The department was disciplined, and in this way the ministry made clear and somehow sent a message about how and how to access the control and control of built-in construction products. I would be interested in the extent to which, for example, since that department was abolished in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. in the Government, your resolution ministry, as long as the ministry had such reconnaissances, how many infringements that went after the use of construction materials based on safety, environmental protection, etc. They are not similar to those of individual buildings. Therefore, these are the fundamental reasons why we cannot support such a solution in the club because, by removing our own department within the Ministry which has so far been responsible for monitoring the use of such construction products, there has been no quality solution that could in turn enable investors to actually use those construction products that have been defined and that are acceptable in accordance with the law that Mr Mandic said just before that we had passed it a few months ago and which is a good law and I agree. But in the implementation of the parent ministry, it seems to me that the ministry has failed on the one hand, and on the other hand, the reason I am saying is that I hold that this reorganisation of the State Inspectorate has not been affected and is not a good solution for the entire inspection in the Republic of Croatia in our club of the Croatian Democratic Community. This is why I mentioned the Croatian Democratic Community club cannot support such a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71623	Final draft law amending the Law on construction products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 616; The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. The adoption of this law also requires a majority of the votes of all representatives of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 252. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please raise your hand to plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 89 votes in favour, 21 abstentions, are passed by law amending the Construction Products Act as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71624	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Service Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 610. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance. You received the reports at the session. The Prime Minister does not consider that the proposal should be clarified. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll also vote on this law later. My colleagues and colleagues, information for tomorrow. At 9.30, we'll start with the proposal for a law on protection at work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-19-0.u71625	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Service Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 610. The debate on the final text of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law, and I am also asking for the adoption of this law to require a majority of the votes of all representatives of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 252. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please raise your hands to plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? There is. Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 104 votes for and 5 abstentions have been passed a law amending and supplementing the Customs Service Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer. Dear colleagues representatives and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we continue to work on the established agenda. According to yesterday's announcement, we are going to discuss: - Proposal for a Law on protection of work, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 607; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law shall apply, Articles 183 to 188. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Minister.
