ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u64071	[[CONTINUE AFTER MEETING IN 11.50 HOURS]] On behalf of Croatian Labourist fellow Tušak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u64072	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Two days ago, January 21st was the day of the social partnership declared by this Croatian Parliament. And two days later, at today's meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the agenda item is the Labour Act, without prior agreement with the social partners. It's the barbaric act of this government that the workers of the last hole were playing. In the materials for the government meeting, the government had no courage to publish a draft amendment or the Labour Act, so the question arises whether it is a secret document or a public not to know what it says? And in its hastyness, the same government has put in place one document of the labour law to establish a proposal for protection of work. It's the ultimate clamper of this government. Yesterday, the prime minister called several times in his address on the opposition to make their proposals. Well, Croatian Labourists therefore suggest that without a social partnership agreement, this law is not put into practice, and we suggest that the President and the Croatian Parliament's Presidency not put the Labour Act on the agenda. Because unions are in the strike process among their members. Otherwise, it would be an act and precedent that was not imagined in certain democratic countries, especially knowing that in 2003 there was a change in the Labour Act when workers' rights were destroyed. And at the beginning of this term and of this government or more specifically on 20.02.2012, the prime minister here spoke quite differently here for this speaker in this House. And that I do not convince what he was saying I will read in addressing this Parliament and the citizens of Croatia what he said then. "The labour law is a deep social agreement. 10 and more years ago, this government led by the SDP and the coalition government in which Prime Minister Ivica Racan amended the Labour Act and in negotiations with international financial institutions and was criticised. Who knows if for a reason? History will determine whether it is a neoliberal law issued by workers. And so it has been 10 years and more, today again we see that from the ranks of neoliberal politicians, economists, bankers come again requests, although a little undefined, that labour law is re-changed and workers' rights are shrinking. Look, we didn't announce it in our election program, we don't talk about it. If there's anything concrete to quote, everyone listen. We don't think about it at this point, I'll say more, we don't want to think about it at all because I stress the Labour Act is a social agreement, it's not just a letter on paper." That's what the Prime Minister of this government said. I call on him this time if he continues not to lie to Croatian citizens like this, not to lie to this Assembly and parliamentary representatives in it. Let him resign, or let him start telling the truth, and let him serve with concrete results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u64073	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u64074	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, after yesterday's performance at the current afternoon, and today, man simply has to ask himself a question, and where did the social partnership go? Where did the GSV work go? I can't forget the spring of 2010. – the crisis, the whole world is shaking, the stock market has not given credit to anyone for months, and the government then decides that simply certain rights generated for years through collective contracts of state service employees, local self-government units and state-owned enterprises cannot be financed in such a way as to propose an amendment to the Labour Law that does not abolish any rights but simply to open new negotiations for collective agreements, new collective bargaining that will be adequate to the economic situation and financial power both state-owned and state budget. And unions, not agreeing with that, are using full legal and legitimate rights and organising a referendum. And no one's defending them. Who first came to sign their request for a referendum? The current Prime Minister, Mr. Milanovic, is the current Deputy Prime Minister who heads the major reform procedures of Mrs. Opacic. So they said they disagreed with the amendments to the Labour Act and that no one should touch workers' rights even though we have been hearing for months now about how someone signed some collective agreements and rights under collective agreements. Well, I'd very much like the Ministry of Science and Health to list all the collective agreements that have been signed and the additions to a collective contract signed over the past 20 years, so you'll see how many have been signed since 2004, so you'll see how old some are. But so much for consistency, so much for respecting your political views because if you were then firmly in the position of the union that someone can't change anything then the logical thing is that today at least you try to negotiate it with them. But it's not being agreed today, today there's a big crisis, today it's all falling apart. However, the only fact that we today have the biggest deficit in the history of the Croatian state and one can say this or that, but the deficit in 2013 and 2014 is solely the consequence of the left and right foreign policies of this government, which is the only consequence. There aren't any tails. But the government has neither courage nor desire nor wants to talk and negotiate with those to negotiate with. Frankly speaking, the Prime Minister said today, I hope to quote it correctly, you wanted reforms, and here they are to you. The question of whether these reforms that he is now offering are the consequences of his whim or NATO, or whether it is the result of elaborate reforms that have a clear objective and clearly knows what is being achieved with them, that these reforms have a clear objective and that the government knows clearly what it wants to achieve with these reforms, and not that it is the stubborn and whim of the Prime Minister and his associates then they would negotiate day and night with the social partners until they find a solution. So I can also give you a minimum wage question. The same thing has been negotiated for days and nights. It brought one height minimum wage and you know what happened from the economic branches that the labour-intense unions had already sent a message, it's all nice, but if we pay such a minimum wage, we'll all be out of a job because our companies can't pay it off, so even the unions weren't unreasonable at that point and they weren't aware of the situation. Therefore, everything can and ultimately must end with negotiations. However, when you push your hir, when your ego is above all else, when this country is not strong enough, strong enough to stand up to your ego, then we have the situation we have, we have the biggest deficit in the history of the Croatian state, we have 375 unemployed, we have a situation to capitalize our entry into the EU, we have made friends proven, friends we have practically people who no longer trust us, and all because of one great ego, one great leader, and I think it is something that simply offers Croatia nothing good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u64075	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u64076	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, in 1885 Emil Zola, a French writer wrote his 13 novel, interesting 13 out of 20 how much he wrote and this novel is called Germinal and talks about relations in a mine in France. I am very concerned with the situation of today's and the new Labour Act that we have only indications of, therefore, that although we are convinced wrongly that the increase per week is only 48 with 40 hours etc., and there have been talks about 56 hours if you remember well a few months ago when Miranda Mrsic spoke about 56 working weeks in the Republic of Croatia. After that, after these statements, there was one silence, and about ten days ago in the media, there was a haranga of employers, bankers and others about not being able to secure Croatia's investment and prosperity because it was not an air conditioning, there was no new Labour Act that would allow them the flexibility of the workforce, the fluctuation of the workforce, and on that occasion, the minister said that Minister Mrsic had said that in the Republic of Croatia and praised the new jobs of 210 thousand for his mandate but did not say whether these jobs were indefinitely or only on a certain, occasional or temporary basis, so those who cut grass in municipalities over the summer work for ten, 15 days and he counted in the newly employed. So in Osijek-Baranja County, for last year's statistics, it says that 18 and a half thousand were newly employed and by then an average year, the average was around 11 thousand. So, I deny it to Minister Mrsic, that this new employment is indeed, that there is flexibility of the workforce and not only them but also employers and employers' association, so the flexibility of the labour force is increased but it does not help them, they are asking for more, it is the banking sector and the large capital sector that is still being sought, they are asking that workers become proletaries and this new labour law which is here I would almost secretly say to the government without agreeing with the social partners and which somehow out of spite or from what Schuker Hira said offended Prime Minister, so now you get... You asked for it, you got it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] His interpretation of it is as if he were avenged by Croatian workers, Croatian people and Croatian citizens. I guess we pissed him off here yesterday at the current morning when we talked about some things in the health care center, when an illegal work obligation was declared by Minister Ostojić, when shift work was introduced in hospitals that go to harm patients and then health care professionals write on posters of the health ministry this kind of thing advertised by the health minister that the new system is at work, new strength, new proletaries, and health workers write on it "lies", lies, writes lies nice. I took it off from a clinical hospital in Zagreb at the stake. Yes, the proletarians and once their elite, the representatives of these proletarians were you and the prime minister who came from the socialist, to say, I will not say internationals, but who pronounces himself a liberal politician. And where is she, "the proletarians are from the countries, unite"? So when workers announce a strike, on this particular issue of social labour laws, then you will take revenge on workers by introducing them before the strike of the new Labour Act. This is not how the Croatian Parliament goes, and if this proposal comes, I appeal, I invite all of you who once thought that you were their elite...... Upadica Batinić: Time./... to refuse such a new Labour Act that this Government will deliver today, not today but these days, here at the benches of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u64077	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66339	Dear fellow MPs, respected colleagues of the Croatian Parliament, continue the plenary work of the Croatian Parliament according to the established agenda. It's 21st. Final proposal of the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 560 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall include the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Economy Allen Liveric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. This law transposes the EU acquis in the field of energy, i.e. Directive 119/2009 of the EU Parliament and of the Council, which obliges Member States to maintain a minimum supply of crude oil and oil or petroleum products. In view of the implementation of the directive in question, the adoption of this law will create conditions for the safe and quality supply of the oil and petroleum products market in the Republic of Croatia based on market principles. In view of the opening of the market and the emergence of several energy operators on the oil products market, the conditions for repealing the rules on the establishment of the most retail price of petroleum products and the rules on the determination of the price of ingested oil gas have been met and price formation on the market of petroleum products is freely regulated and regulated on market principles. In this context, long-term positive effects such as increased retail chain investment are expected. This law also lays down mechanisms of action in cases of exceptional distortions in the supply of oil and petroleum products in terms of the determination of content as well as the implementation of the intervention plan itself, as well as the establishment of an expert commission to monitor the regular supply of oil and oil products markets. Furthermore, this law regulates and clarifys the obligations to form operational supplies of petroleum products, and the obligation to form mandatory supplies of oil and petroleum products, to limit availability and to strengthen control of mandatory supplies of oil and petroleum products, to operate in connection with the obligations of oil and petroleum products, and all in order to increase security in supply to the Republic of Croatia. It is important to note, as one of the relevant papers of this law, that for the first time it explicitly states or defines energy activities in the field of oil and petroleum products, as well as how the authorisation is to be granted and the exceptions for the performance of certain energy activities in this particular area. This law regulates the placing of biofuels on the oil and petroleum products market in order to achieve the national objective of placing biofuels on the market. In addition, where prescribed technical requirements for fuel quality are met. This law regulates the activity and subject-matter of the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products. Namely, with the rebalancing of the state budget in May last year, HANDA was included in the budget of the Ministry of Economy as a budgetary user who runs his business through the State Treasury. In view of the above, it was necessary to lay down this law the procedure for the establishment of the Agency's case in relation to the significantly modified structure and the part-round jurisdiction of the same in order to deal with the oil and oil reserves as a budgetary user but as a central body for compulsory stocks in the Republic of Croatia. For the operational functioning and performance of the tasks and functions of the HANDA, this law also introduces elements that comply with the Law on the State Budget and other implementing legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia and the EU, or elements by which it is possible to organise the activities of the HANDA itself. Since HANDA is a single central authority on the Republic of Croatia to provide mandatory supplies of oil and petroleum products which are of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia in the event of a threat to the energy security of the state due to exceptional disturbances in the oil and oil products market, the speedy adoption of this law is of paramount importance for further enforcement of the law of the prescribed obligations of the HANDA. Finally, this law establishes a basic legislative framework on the basis of which the conditions for the opening of the oil and petroleum products market will be established for the safe and quality supply of the oil and petroleum products market in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66341	Thank you, Alan Leveric, Deputy Minister. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to submit a report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate, we're going to the representatives' clubs. It is the turn of the HNS club and the respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66342	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is one of a series of laws that have been passed in this House since 2001 when the reform of the energy system in the Republic of Croatia began, and this law is in fact very similar to one law that we have passed, which concerned markets and the functioning of the electricity sector and in its basic points of view: the first change, the important change that is part of this law, is the full liberalisation of the oil derivatives market, which has so far worked in a way that the Government through certain mechanisms and criteria has determined the maximum price of oil derivatives on the market. In view of the fact that several entities dealing with the distribution and sale of petroleum products are present on the market today, the Republic of Croatia considers that the same assumptions have been created as on the electricity market and has taken off the circuits in this law and as a country which has long been designated as the government of the country that has long been designated for the free market and liberalisation of markets and free trade leaves the market to form prices. Positive examples and effects of such an approach can be seen today also at the creation of an energy price for end-users, so it is to believe that these free market principles will work in the case of oil derivatives. However, it is necessary to be careful in this regard that there is an institution in this country that must monitor correctness in the functioning of the free market and competition, namely the famous AZTN and the Competition Protection Agency, which has not proved to be effective in all situations so far, but at this time, we are drawing attention to the correctness of the oil products market. If they do their job without a doubt, this law will get positive effects. The second thing that is important for this law is that there is a clear regulation of the obligations to create oil reserves which are intended to provide security in supply and special consumers that are extremely important for the functioning of the system but also for consumers in the event of exceptional market disturbances, exceptional situations. The third basic provision of this law is also a change in the status of the agency. For oil, it has so far been an out-of- budget user, the assessment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that there is no longer any need or that it would be more appropriate to be in the State Treasury system, to be in the system, or in a number of budgetary users such as the practice in a series of Western European countries and Member States of the European Union. Since these three changes, which are actually the key changes made by this law, we in Croatia consider the People's Party necessary, positive and in line with the general trends and practices in the Member States of the European Union to which we belong, the Croatian National Party Club will in any case support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66343	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a replica, a respected representative of Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66344	Thank you very much, colleague Baranovic, using the thesis on the free electricity market, you said that, therefore, in Croatia it opened up for more distributors that electricity market. And you didn't mention that the government set an example immediately, so I don't think it's very great, that it's moved on to a Slovenian power distributor next to our domestic HEP and all of those possibilities provided by our HEP. Here we can see today that for the first time in Croatia television has been advertised very much by HEP distributor for a long, long time. But here's the government, without any doubt, went straight into, and embraced a foreign power operator. Interestingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66345	Replica response, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66346	Dear colleague, my opinion is quite the opposite, the government has actually shown by this procedure that it is the first one to comply with the laws it has prescribed. And when mastering the funds of Croatian citizens, it would be truly unwarranted to take for his supplier the one who offers a higher price. On the other hand, it has shown another bright example, which is an educational measure towards state-owned enterprises which has given a clear message that the conditions of the free market must be adapted... Be nice to your colleague, please, I didn't interrupt. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] She set an example, the best example of how and how to act when available to Croatian citizens, each kuna taken from citizens in this situation has a special value and weight. On the other hand, state-owned companies must understand that jobs have to be taken, so HEP began to advertise, and HEP began to correct its price. And the final result of the satisfaction of these very citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are experiencing difficult moments, social, financial, significantly lower prices offered by distributors on the free market. No monopoly, no price blackmail, no irrational behavior to a state-owned company. Because he'll either do the right thing, or he'll master right or he'll fail. And that's only fair, it's fair to all private entrepreneurs in this country, their employees fighting in the free market to survive. State firms are of interest to the Republic of Croatia, so they need to be constructed, raised and forced to work, to earn profits from which investments can be launched. We will not make Pharaohs or sacred cows of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66347	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Igor Radinovic and the Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66348	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I apologize in advance for repeating some thesis, affirmative thesis in favour of this law, since I am speaking of course on behalf of another club of the ruling coalition. And here's the first sentence, of course, that the SDP Club will also support this proposal, the final bill of the oil and oil derivatives market. The basic objective of this law is to create conditions for the safe and quality supply of the oil and petroleum products market based on market principles and that is the fundamental difference. By repealing the rules laying down the maximum retail prices for petroleum products, as provided for in this law, the prices of petroleum products will be completely free of charge according to market requirements and laws. The most important thing is the most sensitive newspaper in this law. The topic was very interesting to the media especially at this time of year, so at the transition from one calendar year to another, when many media reported that free price formation would take place from January 1st. However, the ministry had to issue a statement that before that the law must be passed, so that we will all have to wait together for this law to be passed and the law to be published in the National Journal, but it will certainly be relatively quick. Although this free formation is of course the most significant for our citizens and most interesting, it is not the only one that is governed by this law, it is a fairly complex law in line with the laws of the countries, other European Union countries. It also regulates, among other things, the rules and measures for the safe and reliable production of oil products for the transport of oil and petroleum products, for trade in large and small, storage, trade in large and small-scale oil gas, third-party access rights, open market access, emergency intervention plan, supply of oil and oil products markets, and operational and mandatory oil supplies, i.e. oil derivatives, which I will discuss later. Similarly, this law regulates the establishment and implementation of measures for the safe and reliable supply of oil and petroleum products. In addition to Article 9, which prescribes this most important amendment, in particular the important assessment and Article 8 which speaks of how oil derivatives of course when placed on the market must meet the conditions laid down in the rules on the quality of liquid oil fuels and what is novelty in relation to current regulations, that the legal person, therefore accredited according to the requirements of the relevant standards, will control not only the quality but also the quantity of oil derivatives. Says one well-known politician that trust is good, and control is even better, so I believe that this measure will also contribute to security with quality, but also to the quantity and everything we have decided to enter the family of European countries. Article 9 is the short and most interesting, therefore only one sentence which speaks of the fact that oil and oil derivatives prices are determined in accordance with the rules governing market laws. Sometimes even the most complicated things can actually be solved the best in a simple way. But what's good is that we have a second paragraph of that law. In fact, all estimates and experts and governments do not expect an increase in prices but rather a decline in oil and oil prices, but it is good that this Article 9 exists, in fact Article 2(9) as a single fuse, which says that in order to protect consumers, market regulation or other justified reasons, the regulation can prescribe a maximum level of retail prices for individual oil derivatives for a continuous period of no more than 90 days. I am obliged by my colleagues and colleagues to inform you, those who have looked more closely at the law, that we have one mistake to say so. As with all the laws, this law follows a united report on the objections that have come to these laws, so the Union of Consumer Protection Associations has requested that this measure of single prices not only be introduced into this law but rather, as they propose, that the retail price of the oil products of an individual energy entity be equal throughout Croatia, which in practice would mean that the individual entity must therefore keep the same price in all its facilities. The truth works, and with so far functioning in this area, and you know it, whenever you went into a smaller environment, especially on islands, prices were slightly higher and oil derivatives prices weren't equal everywhere. If this provision and I support the Proposer, if this provision were introduced in this form then there would probably be an even greater disproportionateity, i.e. consumers would, for example, be deprived of uninteresting areas because the big players would probably not come to that market at all, only small players who could then make some extra profits and I think it's a good thing that it's not accepted. But I'm saying it's a mistake and it's in these materials that it's accepted so it doesn't accidentally confuse anyone. As regards other provisions, operational and mandatory supplies of oil and petroleum products are therefore detailed. As regards operational supplies, they are formed to ensure stability and security, primarily the production of electricity and heat, and for those customers that require special security and quality of supply and for the continuous and secure operation of transport. The law therefore provides for which derivatives are formed and which are insurance bonds, which energy entities are obliged to take care of their operational supplies and regularly inform the ministry. As regards mandatory oil and oil products supplies, that is what we are practically harmonising with the European Union countries. Therefore, mandatory supplies are formed for oil and derivatives supply insurance in the event of an energy security threat due to exceptional market supply disturbances and for the purposes of meeting as I have said to the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia, and based on decisions by the International Energy Agency and the European Commission on the release of mandatory stocks of oil and derivatives on the market. What is important and of course has weight and media is interesting, so this law obliges us to through HANDA, an agency that cares about mandatory oil supplies, to keep them in the amount of 90 days of average net imports or 61 days of average daily consumption. Depending on which of these quantities, which of these figures is larger in a given calendar year, and therefore is determined by the first April of the following year and is valid until March, the calendar year is not bound but the calculation is carefully done. The law also stipulates which quantities do not enter into compulsory stocks, from strategic stockpiles, from the operational stocks in containers of ships, pipelines, etc., as well as those in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia which are therefore either physically for defence purposes or are secured in this way. They are kept in finished raw oil products, and the law also prescribes that at least 1/3 must be in real products, and the minimum share of those most concrete must be the minimum share of 75%. Now what might be interesting and what was interesting to the media, where and how these mandatory oil supplies are kept. It is no secret that so far Croatia has done so in warehouses abroad since domestic warehouses have not been enough. If I'm not mistaken, these days... the conditions in JANAF, so, very soon, that virtually gro of these amounts are over 80% kept in the Janaf warehouses, and that's for sure. As far as the latter is concerned, this law allows them to be kept elsewhere, and also paragraph 2 of the last article says that mandatory supplies of other countries can also be kept in Croatia, but in no way can Croatia harm the availability of these supplies. That's about what the content is. The second part of the law I expect may be some criticism from the opposition side, which is therefore a very complex task of HANDA which therefore has in these circumstances which I have only touched so superficially in this presentation. Of course it's necessary to set up an agency to do it. So she's a public institution, she's a budgetary user, and a colleague before me says I don't have to go on with it. We know what her job is. The Agency shall be managed by the Administrative Board appointed by the Director and the Deputy Director. It shall be specified in detail by the powers of the Director and the Deputy, the conditions which meet. They're choosing what might be important to say in a public competition, so I think that's one standard definition of the agencies we have. Finally, this law creates conditions for the safe supply of oil and oil products in a qualitative but quantitative sense, based on market laws, which will also have a positive effect on the protection and rights of consumers as well as on some other areas in recent years from telecommunications to, for example, taxis and services. Furthermore, this law lays down energy activities in the field of oil and oil derivatives as well as how licences are to be issued, action in cases of possible exceptional market supply disturbances, restrictions on availability and enhanced control of mandatory oil and oil products supplies, and operations related to oil supply obligations, oil supply and oil derivatives obligations. All of these are colleagues and colleagues of the reasons why the SDP club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66349	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a few replicas. The first replica and respected representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66350	Thank you, Your Honor. So here is what I would like to refer to what my colleague said about the fact that the non-compliance of what is said in the table of consultation with the interested public and where, during the public consultation, the observations made by different associations, and so the Union of Consumer Protection Associations, which asked for a new item to be entered in Article 7, which would be the same in the area of the Republic of Croatia as the retail price of the oil derivatives of an individual energy entity, and the table shows that this remark has been accepted. However, if you read Article 7 then you can see that there is no such item and we have warned on the Committee on the Economy, and we believe that this should be corrected because we, as advocates and advocates, have been led in principle into error and in doubt about what is ultimately accepted or not, and I hope that in the final document that will be published on the Parliament's web pages, it will nevertheless be corrected so that people, and yet it is the observation that the Consumer Protection Association would not be brought into any doubt and doubt about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66351	Replicate response, Honored Representative Igor Radjanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66352	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, at one point, I thought I'd have to answer more in content. I said in my debate, although only harshly why I personally and the SDP club thinks that the provision should not be accepted since it practically touches the very core of the law and then everything else about freeing the market would actually be pointless and it would not be released and all the benefits that this bill carries would not have been realized. So this isn't about my court and my colleagues' court on a good proposal, but I fully support this fellow Holly, as you said. Unfortunately, it slipped somewhere even though the representatives of the Ministry of Economy immediately did so on the Committee. We did it a new year ago, obviously it got lost somewhere. Whoever's working, he's wrong. I hope we can fix it in the papers because it's actually the key point of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66353	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66354	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Radjenović, you also spoke about the free oil and oil products market. Here we are before this law has come to the benches of the Croatian Parliament, and by traveling across the beautiful part of ours we will not see that we all see gas stations, clearly and distributors in the Republic of Croatia. So, I don't see any special, so it will be particularly encouraging, so some new freedom or new distributors will be, that they haven't had a chance to work on the Croatian market so far without the adoption or this law that's talking about it. So here I will not speak only on road A3 and on our Dalmatian you can see various types of gas stations, and clearly behind them are distributors who supply oil and oil derivatives in the Republic of Croatia. That's how it's gonna be in the future whether we adopt this law or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66355	Replicate reply, respected representative Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66356	Well it is certainly that the market in Croatia is partly open, but it is certainly that we want and we have signed and we want to play by the rules of the game as it is in other European countries. This regulation that further liberalises actually only the price formation of producers is additional in all countries where he, therefore, took a step forward further strengthened the price correction, the price correction down and on that side turned competition stronger. What he said if I'm not mistaken and the Deputy Minister is invoking. Then there are very fast investments and the simple market becomes more interesting. You know there are several global companies that find the market interesting and it becomes more interesting from the point of view and investment and investment, so in the retail facilities themselves, but also some other facilities that I'm not going any further around. Therefore, competition itself has a positive birth and price. I said in my own debate something similar happened about telecommunications, something similar happens about services, about the liberalisation of taxi services in all our major cities. Thus, there was a good effect everywhere. We expect it to be like this here. If this is because of "Croatian" as some of our colleagues say, something different happens, a strange country around us, I don't believe it, but there is a theoretical possibility, there is this Article 2 of Article 9 that practically allows the government to move on to the old overnight and that it lasts 90 days. Therefore, there is no fear. If it happens to go wrong, we have a mechanism to practically call a session or any session of the government of things back to the beginning and to be as it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66357	Honored representative Goran Maric and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66358	Thank you very much. We look forward to the market forming prices. An effective market is more faith than fact. On the oil market, if there is a market price then it should be created on the basis of supply and demand functions. Since supply and demand functions are so stable for years, and oil prices are the most unstable prices of almost all products on the world market, up to 60, 70% annually, this means that the supply and demand function does not even form the price of oil and markets, but that these are speculative prices where stockbrokers most often form. Therefore, there is a very important role of the state, especially AZTN and where your predecessor to the Competition Protection Agency says that in certain cases AZTN or the Competition Protection Agency which is one of the most important agencies in the Republic of Croatia is one of the worst and I dare say the worst agency in the Republic. It does not work in the interest of the Republic of Croatia because prices are not formed on the basis of supply and demand but on the basis of someone's needs, and that is not good. As for the agency run by the board of directors, it is predicted that the ministry's proposal will appoint five members, says the chairman of the board of directors is a representative of the ministry, but the ministry of finance also writes here. What ministry is responsible for finance? So can't it be written whether it's the Ministry of Finance or maybe we're predicting that another ministry will be in charge of finance tomorrow? What are the conditions for members of the Governing Council who make extremely important decisions and professional decisions? There are no prescribed conditions. It may be through the statute that these members of the governing council are about to prescribe their own terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66359	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honored Representative Igor Radjanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66360	Thank you, Mr. President. Hey look, we can always be anti-insistant and make arguments that we don't even fit in two minutes about it, but objectively there's a lot of content. I don't agree with my colleague Maric about your AZTN evaluation. Of course, like any other agency, it can and must be better. There have now been some changes and at the head, a longtime director has left but in any case I would not agree with your assessment that it is the worst agency in the Republic of Croatia. God forbid Croatia is such a happy country that it would be the worst agency. After all, international assessments of the agencies themselves are not so bad, although they are diametrically contrary to what you're saying. Even though I'm not happy with everything that's possible. But in relation to some other indifferences in this country, I think it worked quite solidly. Of course we'll force her here when the debate comes about the agency's own annual report to be better and more effective. Yes, prices form supply and demand. You yourself said it was a sophisticated market, international with a lot of speculation, right. But this particular liberalisation will allow those who are better, who will sooner come to the market that precisely with that quality, by buying, by selling, by terms, etc. which will have a quality market appraisal at times when it suits them, in summer, in winter. The demand is with us you know about 4 million kunas and economies but also as a significant tourist country, given how small and sometimes sad we are about it, we are not as insignificant to these companies either. The best evidence is that other big companies are coming now. You also have here not to advertise some who have even praised this arrival, see that they are coming and believe me that prices will go well and that is our ultimate goal. And for citizens, therefore, the sharper quality, the sharper control of the quality of fuel on one side, but also the price that will be even more favourable. And let's not forget that for the economy too, a bigger offer will come to lower prices. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66361	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It's the HDZ Club and the Honorable Representative, Đuro Popiac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66362	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister with his associates. The proposal for a Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products provides two significant newspapers in the field of the oil and oil products market. In the light of the reasons for the adoption of these changes, it is noted that, given the opening of the market and the emergence of several energy operators on the market of petroleum products, the conditions for repealing the Regulation establishing the retail prices of petroleum products have been met. This law further stipulates, as already said, the free formation of prices. Therefore, as the only argument to abolish the rules, the Government cites the appearance of several oil dealers, and without any other analysis of the consequences or effects that this change will cause. It should be recalled that the market in the Republic of Croatia has been open for more than 20 years and has been working on several significant energy entities for a long time. The current price determination formula was based on the prices of oil derivatives on the Mediterranean market, the exchange rate, the premium of the energy entity and the fees and taxes and was arranged once that the increase cannot be greater than 3% and a reduction of more than 6%. When market conditions are stable, there are no specific reasons for some fears of price shocks. But the formula and the restriction of growth are extremely effective when major disturbances occur in the world markets, and we have seen this in our history several times. This protected Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy from the extreme rise in oil prices. This proposal provides for a safeguard in exceptional cases where the regulation can prescribe a maximum retail price for certain oil derivatives for a continuous period of 90 days. There are no mechanisms or details of the possible activation of this measure so it is completely unclear in which specific cases can be assessed by the Government when consumer protection is needed and how it will be done. Article 9 defines that the price of oil and oil is determined in accordance with the rules, in accordance with the rules governing market relations. Even though this is where the intention is clear. Therefore, it is left to traders to freely form prices without any established rules. The wording of the article states that prices are nevertheless determined according to certain rules and those regulated by the market. I would like the Proposer to explain what the rules are and where they are written, agreed or published. It is quite certain that following the entry into force of this law there will be an increase in oil derivatives prices. This is certainly not to be missed by traders because the state has systematically reduced their margins over the past two years and increased their budgets. Profit margins are the lowest in Europe for state intervention, while retail prices are approximately the same. In view of the increasing state involvement in the structure of the price of oil derivatives, traders in order to maintain their business at all and to launch any investment, I will take advantage of this possibility and increase my margins. However, given the state of the budget at the same time, this increase will certainly be useful for increasing the revenue of the budget, which is obviously the sole objective of this measure and this law, while not expecting that the Government will, of course, reduce any item burdening the price of oil derivatives. In this proposal, the state did not foresee control mechanisms to prevent the abuse of monopoly and the emergence of card association between traders. Let us therefore bring an exceptional role of the Competition Agency, regardless of what it thinks of it at this time. The experiences of European countries are different, so let's say Germany under the pressure of citizens last year established a special office within its market regulator when fuel prices began to wild and to see through the measures of traders' intentions not to negotiate prices with market principles. Some analyses show that between different market regulation models, the Croatian model has maintained a balance between the interests of traders and customers. The balance is marred after a significant increase in the part where the state affects the retail price of gasoline and diesel, and a certain increase in oil derivatives prices will be directly due to government wrong moves. It remains to believe that companies will be responsible, that there will be no extreme jumps, but even the smallest pick-ups will only further impoverish citizens. As regards HANDE, this proposal is logically due to the fact that this Agency has abolished financial independence for the purpose of drawing up the budget and thus distorts the fundamental reason for the establishment of an independent agency, which is to create preconditions for the provision of mandatory supplies of oil and oil derivatives through supply and through the building of capacity to store compulsory supplies. An independent way of funding has already been abolished. HANDE’s revenue has been transferred to the budget through an increase in excise duties and thus a breach of the concept established in accordance with EU directives and with the basic principles of the International Energy Agency with regard to the increase of available mandatory oil and petroleum products. This law finally abolishs the independence and independence of this agency and endangers everything that has been done so far in the field of energy market regulation and the secure and reliable establishment of mandatory supplies of these energy products. I am truly surprised that the ministry is writing these laws, and for what purpose and what are the stakeholders who can make such proposals and send them to the assembly. I will repeat here once again that the funds that are intended to provide oil and oil products as capacity building cannot possibly be part of the tax revenues of any kind. This is in all EU documents and the international energy agency that I have already mentioned. This activity cannot and must not share the fate of the budget because it really has nothing to do with the budget, so we think that the Government and earlier changes and this change are harshly in violation of the international commitments but also distorts the security of the insurance of mandatory oil and oil products and threatens to invest in building their own capacity to store the supplies of these products, so we do not see any reason to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66363	Thank you, Your Honor. Three replicas from your club and one outside your club have been reported to your presentation. Let's go in order, first replica and respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66364	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Popijac, you say that the amendments to this law are proposed with the aim of drawing up the state budget in a way that the funds that were the original incomes of HANDE are now becoming through the amendment of the Law on excise duties of the state budget. If you remember that at the end of 2012, when this same law proposed, the amendments to this same law were proposed by the Ministry of Finance, if you remember, and not by the Ministry of Economy, even though it would have to be a proponent of amending that law at the time, and then we warned that by amending the 2012 law, the HANDA would cease to be an independent, independent and public institution, but what is even more important is that it would remain without a very large amount of its resources that were foreseen by the law until then, so I will tell you very plastically what this means today. According to its annual 2012 amount, HANDA has received about a billion and a hundred million kunas, and according to the 2014 budget, HANDA will have around 430 million kunas at its disposal. Do you think that Mr. Popièa will be able to carry out his obligations with three times less resources than those that were your law, which was in line with the 2009 European Directive, relating to the safe supply of oil and oil products in the Republic of Croatia and the need to build storage facilities for the storage of these same oil supplies?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66365	The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66366	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So you correctly noticed that it was a harsh violation of everything that Croatia has done in the past. It's not as lame as I said the exposure was written that these incomes to secure oil supplies are not and can't and can't be in any segment of the income of the state budget. Because of the disastrous state of the economy, due to the obvious inability to control the state budget, this government headed by the finance minister in this segment, of course, and probably because it is at the head of the government, we no longer know what the role of President Milanovic is, is looking everywhere where there is one kuna, and not to watch where there is a billion kuna. And they will do everything to patch up what clearly leaks to him everywhere, not selecting funds, not choosing a way and jeopardising many of the essential functions that Croatia must provide as a member of the EU today. We don't know what happens to investments in our own capacities, whether they're continued, whether they're building more storage facilities at all, we don't know, of course, what's going on with the mandatory supplies, and we don't know how it's possible from the billions of kuna that's scheduled and that's due from the basis of the compensation for HANDA, now it's all provided by half the funds. Something's wrong with that. If so, we reduce the share of oil derivatives for these purposes, not to patch up and fill the budget with these funds. So the obvious intention is, we see what the Ministry of Economy has nothing to do with it, or obviously nobody asks them what's going to happen especially when there's so much money needed for Minister Linic to patch up the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66367	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Goran Maric, his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66368	Thank you very much. You were talking about extremities, you were talking about extremities. There are two extremes on the market, a completely so-called perfect competition and monopoly. And market situations are between those two extremes. However, the prerequisite for the functioning of the market and the formation of market prices is that producers and consumers, but also the owners of production resources, are informed about the current and future prices of all production goods and all production factors. But in reality there is no such information because there is always one group of individuals more informed than other groups, and then in such conditions it does not determine the price market but determine the alliances prices and in Croatia are the most present Alliance price formation, when individual business entities agree on what prices will be. And that state can't drop it. Price policy is known to form, but price policy is simplified, the simplest form of cost plus profit. But that's not how a market price is formed, it's a simplified form of price formation of those who rule the market. It's so-called. the cost plus price formation methodology when the estimated costs are added to the desired profit or desired margin. But then this has nothing to do with the market formation of prices, so the role of the state is to react because one of the main functions of the price is redistribution function, and it cannot be redistribution functions if the state does not intervene, if the market does not fully function.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66369	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66370	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, I agree that the risks are high, so we don't know, that's what I mentioned in the very statement that, apart from the fact that they argued that there are several traders on the oil market and that this is why here now it is possible to open free price formation, no other analysis or attempt to assess and assess what can happen. But given the fact that in the past two years, the state has made the biggest impact on price structure, it is natural in view of the pressure and the traders themselves, because they and their level of margin are no longer sufficient to cover these elemental costs, let alone invest something and expect it to come precisely because the state has made a great deal of pressure on the price because the hungry revenue is in the budget, that there will be an increase in the price of oil and oil derivatives. And so we hold that this measure, of course, is that at a certain point it should come, it has no doubt at all, but without quality, adequate analysis, without knowing what we are... Wait, this wasn't possible, it's not a good time for that to happen anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But look what's absurd. It is on the agenda to amend the gas market law where it will restore price control. Imagine, which is now the reason to get here when the internationally recognised formula goes into price liberalisation, and there for a week when it will be on the agenda they will return price control for these tariff buyers. Gas, therefore, which mechanisms are present in this, I said that we do not even know which stakeholders write the laws of this type and send them through the Government to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66371	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Igor Radinovic and his replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66372	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I don't know where my colleague Popioč and his colleagues come from from from getting their income transferred to the state budget, that HANDA is losing its full independence, independence and that it's no longer a public institution. You yourself told your colleague, Poppie, that a billion kuna of income was about a year and it was on the bill, it was on the bill for years. Oil supplies were being guarded, investments were going slow, oil supplies were being stored in Germany and there was still a lot of money in the account and some others... not to speak further about it, what was parallel to that state budget remained thin for 500 million kuna and then what must you do? You have to add to that 500 million kuna, pay the interest that we pay, and we know how we pay, and that's the model that your government and functioned in debt, so it doesn't matter. It's like the state budget is some other person's state budget, so you don't care how the state budget works, etc. I do not see the need for why funds to stand elsewhere if they are unnecessary, Article 14(3) clearly prescribes the obligations of the oil supply at least 90 days or 61 days of average daily consumption depends on which of these quantities is higher, therefore this will be ensured. It is that it will take 500, 600 million to show the bills if necessary and, of course, for the functioning of other activities of the HandA, the budget will be provided. There's no reason for the money to stand elsewhere. I'm saying, I don't really get it, but I'm sorry, that's why we're where we are, and I don't care how the state budget works. Equally, road financing worked in the HDZ era. As you know, the government of the SDP has determined those 1.20 from the price of gasoline, and now we've changed that, 60 limes and every price of gasoline, and all the citizens have paid for it. 60 limes for Croatian highways, 60 limes for roads, but that wasn't enough for you, either. to come today if we only had 28 billion next year's payoffs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66373	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè. You have a new replica now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66374	I don't know what to say to this if you're talking about borrowing. Are you saying you're not in charge now? So you've increased the public debt by how much? 60 billion. So don't even mention it more than he said yesterday, I'm embarrassed to mention that you're in debt between Christmas and New Year's Eve for 5 billion, to issue bonds now, so don't talk about borrowing. But you can't take what's not yours. So wherever you are now, wherever you have money in the account of any institution, government agency, trust fund or anywhere you're going to patch up a budget for which you're not able to control it. You can't do that. It says exactly what is the purpose and how they are collected and the purpose of the means to secure oil and oil derivatives. This is no longer just a question of the security of the supply of the Republic of Croatia, but because we are part of the EU and of course part of the EU. And you mustn't stop building your own capacities, and that will certainly happen. So, I'm talking about something that you severely violated what happened earlier. You will have problems with the European Commission because of this, ultimately, because the independence and security of what should not have been violated, which is why we will certainly have a problem again in certain parts of the EU's rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66375	A new replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66376	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. You were talking about stakeholders, there are stakeholders because of private interest, but here was a very interesting political group that was very important to show fiscal consolidation in 2012 so everything that could be grabbed to show the deficit of 10, 11 billion kuna. And what happened in 2013 when there was no more place to grab from and seemingly show up, suddenly the deficit jumped to 18,19 billion kuna. So it's this quasi fiscal consolidation interest group that someone's been boasting so much about. However, it is a very interesting article the 22nd discusses the mandate of the Governing Council. He says the term of office lasts for 5 years, made up of a representative of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance. So if the elections are every 4 years in the Republic of Croatia, then the logical thing is that the council's mandate will be four years, so if an option happens, but this one will certainly not be, then it will probably extend the mandate to those people. But if he wins another option, then the logical thing is that the mandate of the Governing Council won't be for five years. So slowly the masks fall, you know. I've said every food chain in this House, and in this country, it's up to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66377	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Zlatko Tušak are on their way. Copyright for five years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66378	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the end of last year, the law interested the public if the media had already released information as the law entered into force and there is a free formation of oil and oil prices. It is clear that citizens and citizens in Croatia are very interested in what will happen with the price of fuel, clearly that this price of fuel will also have some impact on economic operators, it will also have an impact on citizens if free price formation can sometimes be fair, and sometimes it can also be used to bring about a sudden increase in prices. Clearly, in time, the market will only regulate it, but the question is, after how long and after how many consequences could happen. What I have in this law is a few dilemmas and misunderstandings that I would like to get today's answer. First of all, this law has been released in an emergency procedure, and it has a P.Z.E. mark. This means that the European law and the reasons why this law is in an emergency procedure is to comply with the documents of the European Union. And now I am asking myself the question that, in the meantime, since Croatia's accession to the European Union, the documents under which this law should be harmonised as a matter of urgency. Secondly, it is said that it is a state budget and coordination and we know that already in the 2nd month there are announcements about budget rebalances. Then I'm also asking myself if it's so important that we adopt this law as an emergency procedure. The third is that the work of the Croatian Oil and Oil Agency should be organised. And what stands in the law itself, and what sort of confuses me to the end, I don't know, I'm probably going to get an answer, it's said that after the adoption of this law, the agency needs to comply with the statute in six months. Now I'm asking myself a question, we're passing a law by emergency procedure and the agency has six months to coordinate their position. The Government of the Republic of Croatia should, for one year, bring forward a plan of intervention in the event of market disturbances, as set out in Article 10. Now, is it really an emergency procedure or could we have done it in a completely different way? And then I think that in a more soberer debate, it will weigh and have some transitional period for those who, possibly in a situation like this, will also benefit from an increase in fuel prices and will clearly have consequences on the part of the economy, especially those who, and part of the fuel, participate in the costs of their business. There's a question and carriers, there's a taxi driver's question and I'm not counting on anyone who's going to have some kind of uncertainty and they're going to have to calculate the price in advance because of something that's going to happen. Because if it goes later, then clearly it will create certain losses. So far, they could, on the basis of their publication every 14 days about fuel price change and plan and adapt to what will happen in the next period, know that 14 days will be a stable fuel price. We are not against the price being determined because this methodology also spoke about what the predecessors said and said that the price is in line with the price of oil in the Mediterranean, that it is related to the course and that I do not keep counting. But still, knowing what we are, we should still have certain mechanisms that would protect us during some transition period so that prices don't get hit especially in this difficult economic situation. Something that will be also be a lot of problems because free price formation means that on different gas stations there will be different prices. Now, we know that there are gas stations at the station entrances that have the fuel price published, so someone will know according to the price of whether it's appropriate for him to park the car, while most of the gas stations don't have those prices at the entrance. So they're going to go in and then they're going to see what the price is, so they're going to go out and they're going to make one completely like that to say unhealthy situation and traffic on those gas stations. Because it could also be regulated by law, obliging all retailers to enter gas stations and to highlight the price of fuel. I am particularly interested in what I would like to be given and answered, which is Article 10(7), where it is said that in a particular market disturbance, the Government can also introduce a work obligation. Now, the introduction of a labour obligation is also said for retail. Now I ask myself a question, we have a series of small gas stations that in Croatia are, what does that mean? Whether in this case and the Constitution of Article 61 clearly determines the possibility of strike or I don't see any other reason why a working obligation would be introduced except in the case of a strike because everyone else then works, I don't see any other reason. Article 61 also states that the right to strike is guaranteed and only in the Armed Forces, directorship, state administration and public services is laid down in the law can the right to strike be limited. Here in this law, it can be limited to the right to mean to privates at certain gas stations if there is a disturbance on the market. These are in some way ambiguities, and therefore we think that in a more sober atmosphere, especially about laws concerning citizens and the public in a more serious way should be discussed, respected certain facts and considerations, consulted with the public even though there was a two-week debate here with the public agreeing of the law. But we think that some laws need to be given a lot more time and effort because they are very concerned about our citizens and we must not bring them primarily into an awkward situation and therefore Croatian Labourists will be restrained for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66379	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Mirela Holly, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66380	Dear counterpart, Croatia should have brought its legislation into line with the third European energy package in line with what it negotiated with the European Union by 3 months 2011. We're now three years behind on that alignment, so there's a reason... There's a reason for the emergency procedure and I'm sorry that this law has been long gone, far from being in a parliamentary debate because we have to stick to what we agreed during the negotiations and we should respect our word, it's political credibility. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66381	Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66382	Thank you very much. My colleague Holly, I could agree with you on what you said the law should have been passed a long time ago. Then we could discuss this much earlier, which is Croatia's accession to the European Union. Why today after more than six months he has to be in an emergency procedure, I don't see any facts because then we've been six months, what we've been doing for six months, what this government has actually been doing for six months. That's the basic reason why I'm against that kind of law-making procedure because there's got to be an excuse for something. Or someone didn't do their part of the job when he was supposed to do it, so now because he didn't do it, we're going to do it with some kind of delay in an emergency procedure. In my opinion, this is a non-serious approach to serious laws that concern citizens very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66383	We're going to the next club, it's HDSSB and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66384	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Gentlemen of the ministry, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Despite the fact that this law bears the code E, so compliance with the laws of the European Union, the HDSB club will be abstentioned, so it will not be for this legislative proposal. I'll explain it in my presentation. A colleague, Tušak, has already said in connection with work obligations. I didn't want to hold this debate back a moment ago, but the labour obligation is introduced says when there's a strike and when oil and oil derivatives are threatened this time, but even when there's a war, not just a strike. However, Mr. Health Minister... health has introduced a work obligation to doctors right here during the strike period, so it turned out illegal, regardless of the possibility of introducing work obligations and strike. In the case of a doctor it was illegal, a doctor's strike. But we're not talking about doctors right now, I'd rather talk about how the so-called rulebook is formed. that maximum price was then included in the distribution of oil and petroleum products in the Republic of Croatia before the adoption or proposal of this law. We all know, I hope at least most, that Croatia provides from its own sources of oil, primarily from Djeletovac in Slavonia or Srijem, it is there, about 40% of its own sources of oil and oil derivatives 40%, gas 60% from domestic sources, its own sources. And now I'm asking one question to the former former members of the former government, here is Mr. Poppie, the air-conditioned head, how that price of oil coming from Djeletovci was even with the price coming from Russia, either from Arab countries. We know what it costs to transport oil, we know how much the workforce costs in Arab countries, how much it costs in Russia, how much it costs in our country. We know how far Djeletovci are from Zagreb, but the price was even. It didn't say this was the cheapest Christmas oil. So in that difference of oil that's distributed from any source and that equality or evensellers' price has certainly earned a certain benefit, I don't know where she went, to whom she went, to the state, to the budget, I don't know who. Therefore, the formation of the price of oil was determined by the maximum price of the so-called. Mediterranean market. I know how the price of oil was formed in the Bosnian Ship, so every change in the price of oil on Monday nights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, just across from Slavonski Brod, that distributor listens on the HTV daily to change the price of oil in the morning and exactly how much, in Bosnia is only reduced by so much or increased. So they regulate, not in the Mediterranean but in the Croatian market. And now I'm asking another question, here we mention to HANDA, the Croatian Oil Agency, the oil derivatives, the market, and then we mention another agency in this bill, there's little talk about this agency, nobody mentioned. According to the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products. It's a second agency and it's a third expert commission. We've got it all, and I'd say one when we're talking about carbs, when we're talking about oil and gas. Nevertheless, we have very clear and justified doubts about the quality of the gas and prices that have arrived to our citizens these days in connection with the consumption of gas in the Republic of Croatia. In this way to say a mild winter where almost the temperature didn't drop below zero we have increased gas consumption bills. Yesterday she seemed to me in the media discussing whether it was an eye, it was about who controlled the price, excuse the quality of the gas. So now I'm going to lay the foundation of this legislative proposal, and who's going to control the quality of oil or there's going to be confusion and confusion again because last night, a representative of HERA said that HERA is not responsible for the assessment of the quality of gas. Then who is it? Who's it gonna be now that it's oil? HERA, HANDA, Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil Stocks, Expert Commission? It's all defined in the law here, but it's not really going to be known again when the oil thing that's in it comes in, we don't know whose oil has a large amount of sulfur. Let's not have sulfur in it. Home-made oil we know what it's like, etc. And again, we're going to have a situation like with these unfortunate citizens who receive so unfortunately high bills for the December gas price, and now they're going to be the same for January. And in the debate and in the media, first of all, no one knows who's responsible for it. Is that the unskilled gas in which the so-called gas is pumped? Hell, you've got a huge amount, and the quality of the gas is weak or someone else and a third. No one knows anything. He says here in the debate a colleague that these prices that will be freely formed on the market will be conditioned by the Allianza agreement, so an oil cluster alliance that will agree that they will form prices in Croatia. The price will depend on a deal like when you go to public procurement, and then they agree on who gets a job on public procurement, if one goes lower, one more, then you deal with a subcontractor, etc. We know how it goes. That's how it's gonna be in Croatia. And because I would say a little too freely, we are forming and discussing this law where, in this legislative proposal, only in paragraph 9, Article 9 and paragraph 2 of the State has been fenced to say exceptionally from paragraph 1 of this Article, the Government of the Republic of Croatia may, in order to protect consumers, wonders, market regulation or other justified reasons, prescribe a maximum level of retail prices for certain oil derivatives for an uninterrupted period of 90 days. So a certain state regulation of the highest, therefore the highest prices, has been retained, and that is precisely in these situations which were discussed at the beginning of this debate. Yes, regulations, EU directives, the European Parliament, and what was signed, were signed in March, according to counterpart Holy. But here's three years are almost over, it'll be in March three years. Here we have today this legal proposal on our benches, which is a little unusual, to say slowly but better ever than never. And what I wanted to point out, and in the debate, there were already words that the Agency, so the HandA's Administrative Council of 5 members appointed the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry, and the term of office of members of the Governing Council is 5 years as a presidential mandate. Interesting though the mandates in parliament are 4 years and the government's mandate is 4 years, the prime minister's term is 4 years. But this is so-called. transferred management and some kind of insurance to remain in some subsequent term or to remain those who were formerly from the government. I have no other reason for this formulation of the term of office of members of the Governing Council. You know that what someone has already pointed out to so-called. alliances of oil producers, clusters. We know, I won't name so I don't advertise anyone here is very rich and powerful clusters. Here's an example of where that company is English we won't name again paid billions, billions of dollars in damages to the ecological disaster in the Gulf of Mexico. You can imagine what such clusters will do to one of Croatia in pricing. It's not a problem. The deal's not a problem between them. Strong manufacturers and oil distributors. This is why it is neatly expressed here and justified concern by some MPs that can happen on our domestic oil and oil products market. About building our own capacities that we have discovered as much stock as we have in the former state when Slavonia and Vojvodina can feed half of Europe, because now all of a sudden in the Adriatic Sea we didn't even know how many oil and gas supplies we have and here we were one day before two days ago the minister informed us about it, and the day before the Minister's statement the media reported that these stocks in the Adriatic submersible were not available or that there are not so many that they were worth exploiting. Now, we'll see. The years ahead of us, they say, can be put in these fields by 2020, only that they are not Podokin's villages, so that there is optimism by the Minister's statement of huge oil and gas supplies in the Adriatic Sea are not exactly those of Podokin's villages or here are another 2 years of mandate, so that few of us are in a state of apathy, and we are not spending huge amounts of sedatives or even more difficult medicines called antidepressants, whose quantity in use in Croatia has been greatly increased in these two years by the government's authorities. I said the HDSSB Representatives Club would be restrained, no matter what the law bears the E-European mark.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66385	A colleague was a better winged woman to integrate cows and bees so that honey and milk flow. That was a saying. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica and respected representative of Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66386	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my colleague Grubisic here, it's already been said that Croatia has simply been there since the first energy package, so on this road through the accession contract it has actually accepted the principle of liberalisation of the energy sector not only oil and oil derivatives. So that includes oil and oil derivatives. What we could say is that it's good because at least in this part of INA liberalisation last year, it started modernising the sales network and investing, so I think somewhere an investment at 1.3 billion kuna was in the modernisation of the sales network. When we talk about the price of oil and oil products, I will say this vividly if we encourage plantations of new vineyards or olive groves in Croatia, it will certainly not affect that the price of wine or olive oil is falling significantly. That's right with the oil. It is, the price is based on the price on the Mediterranean market. INA is somewhere, you said 40%, INA processes about 15-20% of oil from domestic sources, so at least they claim in INA, and then from that, if it's 4 million tons of annual oil processed in INA refineries from the domestic market through the INA trade, you end up with about 2 million tonnes per year or 1.1 million tons of gasoline and diesel fuels. Therefore, in that ratio, this price cannot have a significant impact on the market price decrease. The liberalisation is carried out in this religion is done. As a result, competition appears to lower prices. If that's how it's gonna be, we'll see. Electricity gives us the right to believe that this can happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66387	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66388	Thank you very much. My colleague, Sagar, I've been dealing with 40% of the oil from domestic sources. That number has been in use for many years. Your knowledge, if true, that from domestic sources only 15 to 20% of oil speaks only about the fact that the share of domestic production is actually falling in total quantity and oil consumption in the Republic of Croatia. Which is sad. And if that were the case, I'd even confirm to you your replica tells you that the number of INA employees is also dropping. Can you tell us how much INA employee has been fired in the last six months? I can tell you that this number is 4-digit. And I'll tell you after alone exactly how many INA employees have lost their jobs... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Over a thousand, here's how you know. Now, about the price of oil on the world market and you know for a fact that the meetings are said by oil producers and in Vienna, the Vienna club, they set the price of oil. Well, that's a common-known fact. They'll set up for Croatia, too, right? In this, Croatia has as much of its own oil as possible. And here you see, and you say for yourself that the 40% stake I said fell to 15 to 20%, unfortunately. And in that you have a role, not you personally, but your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66389	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66390	Dear counterpart Grubisic when speaking here in the Croatian Parliament about the essence of social relations, then the prime minister baptises it as a demagogy. However, demagogy is often their laws and their policies. You were talking about over-free price formation. You mentioned that the government can intervene by its regulation, set prices I don't know at what time, it's not said what it's too high a price, it's too low an oil price. It is strange, however, that alleged left-handeds embrace neoliberal doctrines. Because all of what we're saying is pure neoliberal doctrine. All these laws passed to the Kukurik coalition are based on neoliberal doctrine. What you're talking about today, and about it, means not completely mixing the free market. Yesterday we talked about agriculture and Mrs. Mirela Holly and I talked about the free market, and often Mr. Milinkovic when he talks about peasants does not talk about the free market which his party is very much responsible for under quotes "free" market, destroying small farmers is the consequence of the free market. It can't be produced on one hectare as much as a thousand hectares. The price of a hectare of products is too expensive. So it's your free market, it's your ideology, your doctrine. That's not what we're talking about. Now that we're talking about oil, that's it. Remember that two or three years ago, the Social Democrats of Europe issued a declaration on the issue of the Left in Europe. It was signed by senior officials in Europe. And what happens today? In all parliaments, alleged leftists betray social democracy. And that's the essence of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66391	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66392	Thank you, Mr. Vuksic. And you see, therefore, this Social Democratic Party has joined heartily with the liberal option of the CNS in acting on this liberal plan and "liberalism" of the Croatian society, and I am not talking about liberalisation in terms of freedom and freedom, but rather about what you are talking about. And speaking of demagogy, I'd tell you what demagogy is, but it's not for this high house. But when you talk about the government's regulation on prices and what situations the government would intervene in, it intervenes only in setting maximum prices, exactly what it is doing today, but not in messing with prices and not in the number of situations in which the government would do so. So just maximum prices. And what situation will that be? We don't have a precise definition of this bill. And that's one of the reasons that we as a HDSSB club are restrained by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66393	A new replica of respected colleague Ivana Krivec Posavec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66394	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Grubisic, you have called here for oil production in the area of the Republic of Croatia, we can remember that the first rig was 60 years ago in the area of Moslavina, Križ 1 or Šumjecani. Why am I saying this? Because from all oil fields drilling in the Republic of Croatia, we only have 15% of those needs that the Republic of Croatia has today. In those 15%, all the wells that are now active, most of them are over 40 years old. And happy me as happy as you new discoveries. These new discoveries you mentioned your what is certainly new are the Djeletovci 1Z in the field of Privlaka which expects 600 barrels daily drilling. But we should mention that we also have Selec 1, Hrastilnica 1 and 3 which expect 900 barrels daily capacity. This means that what INA processed last year in the first six months is about a million and 250 thousand tonnes in these six months in refineries, and of which, it is an import part, and only 250 thousand tonnes is domestic production. When all these wells that have completed the investigation process are processed and expected to be exploited, we can expect an increase in production by 13%, from 15 to 28%. But we need to know that it is not exclusively fuel that will end up at gas stations, that it is not only the fuel that will provide a lower price and that this price is not exclusively formed according to the amount of local market location but depends on a number of factors. And here a large part of the share in production goes to those basic capacities that are needed for processing in Petrochemia relating to car gas, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66395	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66396	Thank you very much. Yes, dear colleagues, I apologize and you come from that area where the first rig was actually launched. And today, when we take the A3 highway, I see those machines that lock slowly into the ground right next to the highway and that are actually museum examples of oil exploitation in the world and here in the Republic of Croatia. It is true that Djeletovci and Privlak are more recent sources of oil and that they have relatively higher quantities in reserves, underground oil reserves, and I think that given the inequality of reporting and inequality in the views around these marine reserves that we have heard both in the media and from people who are engaged and who are experts in areas such as oil and oil reserves, so it is entirely unequal statements from your minister and those people. I'm afraid this will be a day-long news of oil sources in the Adriatic coast. God forbid you're right so we don't have homework. It's also interesting that you're talking about 15%, Sagar from 15 to 20% from the same club, right, let's figure out how much of it we have from domestic oil sources. I still claim that this quantity is far greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66397	Honored representative Stjepan Milinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66398	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to respond to my colleague Vuksic, but it's not in line with the Rules of Procedure, but when you let him speak a little about agriculture in his replica, Mr. President, I'd say that my colleague Vuksic agriculture is a layered problem and the fact that in the last two years after those shifts that have been made that have progressed and so on. But if you'll excuse me, Mr. President, I don't want to talk about it. I want to apologize for what I said to my colleague Grubisic. Col. Grubisic asked who would control the quality of oil and in accordance with Article 8 I saw in Article 8 the quality and quantity of oil derivatives placed on the market and controlled by a legal person accredited to the requirement of the norm... etc. and that it is good that this article indicates and that the quantities are indicated so that they do not accidentally leave the tanker because there are many and many supplies. But the other thing, since you were talking about gas, and also about quantities since the large amount is 60%, and I'm holding on to the right that the largest quantities come from my county are, in fact, almost the largest majority of them here I'm interested in how to control the quality because we see that these days many consumers appear to have been damaged in some way... But another thing that's important to point out is what I particularly care about, the quality of environmental impact, those adverse effects on the environment, because I've been following this study for years. They're always perfect, zero points, and we, first of all, all our locals, they're all terrified. A lot of times there's that smell of rotten eggs, and the studies are always perfect. This question should be given in a way of giving attention and giving attention to the importance and health of people, we run certain statistics, of course in certain ways at risk. Here's what I'm interested in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66399	We will now hear in response to the replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66400	Thank you very much. Comrade Milinkovic, you have involved everything, both eggs and oil and milk and the amount of AFA toxin. You know who controls the amount of aflatoxin in milk? Who's in charge of this? Who? Milklers. Therefore, milk processors, they determine the amount of aflatoxin in co-operatives, not veterinary inspection or state. So when the milkman comes into some difficulty, she writes to the milk producer "you have an increased amount of aflatoxin". Then he implements the measures prescribed by Minister Jakovina and despite all the measures, as long as the milkman does not get away with it, this one writes that he has an increase in the amount of afl. So you'll be able to see, in this moment, to compare how you compared it to Article 8 in which paragraph 3 states "quality and quantity of oil derivatives that place on the market and warehouse, controlled by a legal person, accredited to the requirement of norm and HRN, EN, ISO, etc. What legal person? Who controls the quality of oil? As for the quality of the gas for which we got the bills for the 12th month, it's not about the amount of gas, it's about the amount of air in the gas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66401	We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative Mirela Holly. Duration of 10 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66402	Thank you, Your Honor. So today's presentation on this topic will start with the comparison of Minister Vrdoljak recently where he compared Croatia with Norway, motivated by the alleged results carried out by Spectrum investigating the Adriatic submarine. Well, since he compared Croatia with Norway, I would like to remind you that the Norwegian state in Europe is the most oil and oil-derived, but it also has the best policy regarding the use of so-called. alternative means of transport, i.e. electric cars in road transport. So Norway, with its largest number of electric cars, continues to conduct a policy that citizens interested in buying electric cars do not have to pay any taxes on those vehicles, get subsidies, have free parking in all cities and can still drive on those lanes that are otherwise reserved in road traffic for public urban transport. What am I talking about Norway for now? So Norway is very rich in oil, but Norway is obviously preparing for a post-fossil period, and I think wise countries should also prepare for a post-fossil period. Although the idea of liberalisation and, in general, of a third European energy package and liberalisation that they bring for the overall energy activities in the EU has been motivated and raised, so as to say competitiveness and fair competition of different market entities, and in order to address the mono-political position of large mega-energy companies because this was not only the case in Croatia, but this is the case almost across Europe which should gradually lead to a decrease in energy prices, I highly doubt that this will happen in this area. So we have to accept the fact that we are slowly entering a post-fossil period and that the wise state should start preparing for the scenario when we no longer have fossil fuels at our disposal. And for this reason, I believe that Norway has made a smart decision when it decided to invest in the purchase of electric cars, and should also bear in mind the fact that Croatia has committed itself to negotiations with the EU that by 2020 it will have 9% of alternative energy in total road transport. And now I'd like to start with some observations on the subject of this bill, and the first observation is tied to the biofuels. This law, namely the Bill of Law, is called the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, but also covers the area of regulation of the biofuels market. I would like to point out here that biofuels are not oil or oil derivatives, so the law is in principle, the name of this law is a little imprecise because it also refers to biofuels, although in a very small part, and biofuels as can be seen and from the very explanation of the termology is not an oil derivative or oil. So, I think that in the future of road transport a very large role will be biofueled, and Croatia is very unprepared in that part for the future that is coming, so as far as I know, not one gas station in Croatia can buy biofuels. You have biofuels intermingling, but you do not have biofuels by yourself, and we have quite a lot of obligations in that part, so I think that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the resolution ministry should pay much more attention to the ways in which we can achieve these objectives from what we have negotiated with the EU in road transport. There's been a lot of words about liberalisation. The liberalisation, as I have already mentioned, is foreseen with a third European energy package and of course it could lead to what is shown in some other sectors to reduce energy prices, or we can specifically talk about electricity, or if we compare it to other things, if we talk about telecommunications, market liberalisation has led to reduced phone prices from mobile networks. Also, if we are talking about the liberalisation of taxi services, we have seen that the liberalisation of taxi services has also led to a reduction in taxi prices, so of course it is possible for liberalisation in this segment of the market to come to price cheaping, but I am afraid, as I said, as we step more and more towards the post-fossil period that it will not be like that. In the new circumstances where a very large role is given to the market, the most significant role is actually an independent regulator, it is in particular in the Croatian case HERA and HERA must be independent not only of the policy, it must be independent of the influence of the large players on the market and I hope that HERA will be able to meet these challenges ahead and that it will indeed be an independent regulator that will determine the rules of the game in a transparent and independent way in Croatia. In short, I still have this one objection to a specific article of the law relating to the director of the agency. For the purposes of Article 24, you shall have paragraphs 4 and 5. Article 4 talks on what conditions the Director of the HANDA should have and then it is said that it should have, in addition to the professional capacity of ten years of working experience, of which at least five years of working experience on executive operations and when talking about the Deputy Director of the HANDA then it is said that the Deputy Director or Deputy Director should have at least five years of working experience but in the activities of the oil economy. I really believe that a person headed by the HANDA other than experience in business management should also have certain experience in the oil business in order to manage this important agency in a competent manner. And there were a lot of words that Handa would no longer be a public institution, that she had lost her independence. We have heard in previous amendments to the laws that regulated the new position of the HANDA that it was taken in order not to actually hit Croatian consumers because all of this part of the EU is shown as excise duties, as it had not been before, so here it is, of course, that there are arguments for and against such decisions but if it will in some way protect Croatian consumers I think it was worth such a step, and I hope that the EU has accepted such an argument by the Croatian Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66403	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, Josip Boric Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66404	Well, colleagues Holly, in your debate, you mentioned this research conducted by the Norwegian company and announcements that Croatia could be little Norway, however, although there are some similarities by approximately, equal population etc. There is one small difference, Norway does not have such a government and such a minister of the economy. It's one small difference and it's very important. That makes a big difference between us and them. And as for small states, given that they can have oil, then they must find ways to share it with the people. We have an example of Venezuela that has a lot of oil but a poor people. And for example, water where we as Croatia are among the richest countries in Europe, and even in the world, we show that we do not even know how to manage this resource. We have the most expensive water in almost all of Europe. So it doesn't take much, because it's shown time to be able to do it anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66405	Replicate response, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66406	Well, I think that there is not only the responsibility of one minister, that we can talk about the responsibility of general policy and those policies from before, and also this policy now because the smart and wise state knows what its strategy is and where it is going and what it wants to achieve, in which way it wants to position itself as a state, in which strategic sectors and how it plans to develop certain economic branches, it is my impression that even your colleagues in previous mandates have not been very successful in that part, and of course it must not be an alibi for those who are now in a position to do something different but here, there is another two years until the end of the term, we will see that the situation is going to develop by the end of the term. I must admit that I am very skeptical of this oil and gas business in the Adriatic because I have received information at the end of the Ina experts that there have been very detailed research and that it has not been quite such an optimistic picture associated with it, and I think it would be wise for Croatia to forget maybe some major fossil sources in Croatia and try to exploit the maximum of what we really have and these are some alternative energy sources, renewable energy sources, and here I would like to remind that a German research motivated by the European Commission has shown that, because it is constantly said that renewable energy sources are very subsidized that they are not how to say cost-effective if they are not under subsidies. What's sad is the fact that we subsidize fossil fuels, but that's not at all public talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66407	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66408	Dear colleague Holly, the government wants a tape of optimism, and then it talks about how we're going to have big oil sources in the future, and we're probably going to export oil. I will refer to your discussion of HERA or independent regulators. You said that an independent regulator should be independent of large systems. However, you know what our practice is, from large systems to independent regulators come and from regulators return to large systems. So this, independence when it comes to our agencies, when it comes to our funds, the councils that are independent, it's played on vervain because everything that's going on, what's going on at the E-media Agency and in other agencies, the independent regulators are all connected, everything is targeted, we're a small country, it's very difficult to deny. Just remember when we're here for some agencies, when some SDPs went out when they voted for what was imposed, it's not like anyone else's man Sanader set up and SDP chose. Well, I think it's illusory to expect anything to improve. You were also talking about Norway. Norway behaves like a poor country, like a country where everything will disappear tomorrow. But we're rich, when we talk about hydrocarbons then we'll discuss what happened in the Adriatic, which isn't, and there's some cards here, we've got some conflicting results, but we'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66409	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66410	So unfortunately, I have to find out that you are right and that unfortunately this process of liberalisation or strengthening the role of agencies as independent regulators in Croatia has not gone very well and has not gone in the direction in other European countries where regulators are indeed regulators. But here it is, with regard to HERA, I hope that the European Regulatory Energy Agency will put little pressure on it, and that things will not, because this is indeed strategic activity, and they need to really rule out how to say the principles of equal rules, play for all, very precisely defined and procedures and procedures, and so on. But I don't like to be how to say pessimistic and I always want to hope that we'll realize that it really won't be true that Einstein's that only human stupidity is boundless, that even the universe isn't boundless. And that it will prove different and that we will realize that politics must be a business in the public interest and that we cannot think about short paths, it is motivated exclusively by some particular, party or interest of certain groups and lobbys and that such a way of conduct and governance in the long term is worth it to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66411	Thank you very much. It's up to the Honorable Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66412	I would like to thank the esteemed president, the esteemed deputy with his associates, his esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So in the past two years, the government has changed the Oil and Oil Market Act twice. This second amendment of the law is essentially down to two reasons. The first is the free formation of oil and oil prices and the second reason is the reconstruction of the Croatian Oil and Oil Agency. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, a colleague, Popijac, spoke about the reasons that led the government to go into free formation of oil products prices and said the position of the Croatian Democratic Community Club which disagrees because it believes that the existing solution is better for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I would just like to add that the Association for the Protection of Consumers of Croatia has made an observation during the debate with the interested public saying that it is not acceptable for energy operators to form in mutually different areas within the Republic of Croatia where there are no conditions for competition and these are the islands and areas of less supply of oil and oil products. by... The station. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, they proposed to introduce in Article 7 a new item which reads that the retail price of oil derivatives of an individual energy entity is equal in the territory of Croatia as a whole. I believe that this would be correct for the inhabitants of the island and also for the inhabitants of less populated areas where there are neither a large number of energy entities nor a large number of gas stations, and then clearly because of the inability of competition, the inhabitants of these areas will certainly pay a higher price for oil and oil products in the Republic of Croatia. And I think it should be accepted that a single energy entity when it forms the price of oil to be unique throughout Croatia rather than dependent on the pump, to the pump station. But I'm going to say something else and that's this second reason why the government started to change the law and that's the status of HANDA. It seems to me that this law makes HANDA go down from its current structure to the level of the records. What was in the former army was chat. So far, according to the 2006 laws, the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products has been established as the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products. These laws, which were in line with the third energy package in full with the HANDA, became the central state body for mandatory supplies of oil and petroleum products, and until 1 January 2013, when this first amendment of the law proposed by the Government in December 2012, the HANDA was also a regulatory energy body, since it was the only independent, independent and non-profit public institution to form, maintain, store, renew and sell mandatory oil supplies. Therefore, the 2012 amendments to the law by HANDA were a completely independent and non-profit public institution that had public authority, which had its own sources of income and which were not small. According to the HANDA Annual Financial Report 2011-2012, HANDA has arrived annually between billions and 150 billion and 250 million kuna. After the government started amending the law at the end of December 2012, and the HANDA took over its original assets, 700 million kuna was foreseen in the 2013 budget at the position of the HANDA. Therefore, by amending the law, the Government of HANDA took over 400 million kunas according to the 2013 draft budget to reduce the two budget rebalances and those 700 million kunas necessary for the operation of the HANDA and for the formation of mandatory oil and petroleum products to 430 million kuna. So, last year, the HANDA lost 700 million kuna on the basis of amendments to the 2012 law, which led to amendments to the Excise Tax Act becoming revenue to the state budget. So the finance minister is a skilled maneuver, one regulatory, independent, independent state body formed under the 2009 European Directive, which was meant to build what we forget, the construction of storage facilities for mandatory oil supplies took over and became part of the state budget, and in this way, we reduced the deficit of the state budget by 700 million kuna in a way that we put the HANDA into the state budget, took over its original financial resources, reduced its powers, and we seem to have made a questionable security supply of oil that was provided for and in the hands of an independent regulatory operator with public authority. And now this law goes one more step further and we change the shape of the Handa. Not only are we changing the shape of the HANDA, we've changed even its name. To date, HANDA has been the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products, as of today HANDA is becoming the Croatian Oil and Oil Agency. So the part that's mentioned in the mandatory stock in her name is no longer listed and it's not just that. This is indeed a significantly reduced role for Handa, which is now completely becoming dependent on the resources of the state budget and, in his opening statement, Mr Popioč spoke. It is not permitted, that the original funds which are in line with the third European energy package implemented in the Croatian legislation are no longer respected, although the funds paid by Croatian citizens when buying oil and oil products are now being changed, are no longer originally intended for the creation of oil supplies and for the construction of a storage facility for mandatory oil supplies in the Republic of Croatia, but become part of the income of the state budget and thus Croatian citizens are practically paying a higher price of oil than it should be if HandA exercised its original powers under the Law on the oil and oil products market, and according to European directives and intended for them. Therefore, I would like to say that these amendments to the law on the one hand do not contribute to the quality and security of the supply of oil and oil products in the Republic of Croatia, we are giving up the project of building a storage facility for the needs of mandatory oil supplies in the Republic of Croatia. When the Government proposed the 2013 budget, the position of the HANDA capital transfers was planned for the need of only 40 million kuna, and in the budget adopted in December of this year, the HANDA even the 40 million kuna was abolished and therefore more at the position of HANDA. For the purpose of building such capacities, storage facilities are not intended for any single June. For this reason and for these reasons, it seems to me that such and I am sure that this bill makes us virtually untraceable to respect the European directive, on the basis of what the third European energy package has come up with, but we are giving up because, in the very directive to which the third energy package is attached, it is said that Member States should have such central stock bodies which must have special legal status, which this legal status is almost annulled by this law and the government remains as I said the role of the HANDA in relation to its earlier role, descends to a level of ordinary registrant who no longer has those regulatory rights and, above all, the public powers that it had to the proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66413	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66414	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you have well noticed that although the text of this legislative proposal does not make it clear whether the HANDA involved in how you said it yourself in the Treasury and the Ministry lost its independence which, according to the definition of the draft or the justification, should have been held as a body, completely independent, regulatory body, as something which, as a public institution, has public authority. Whether it ceases to exist and then on page 2 it is said that it is necessary for the new law to determine the procedure for the establishment of the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil Stocks. Is that former Handa, is that a brand-new agency that might be called Hasna after this, by the way. I really don't know if those two agencies are then Handa plus Hasna or if it's Handa becoming Hasna. After all, it's very common for this government that everything that's here begins with h slightly destroys itself, so we have HINA which we also know in what situation it is. I think the hydrants will soon cease to exist because they are called hydrants, not hydrants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66415	Thank you, too. And you didn't announce your colleague Tušak? Is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66416	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66417	Here, just give me a second. Here you go. Replication response. But I didn't notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, that you also spoke on behalf of the HDSSB club about the fact that we have three agencies now, so you said that we have HANDA and we have this one, counting that the HANDA is not being abolished, but that this law creates a new agency. And this would be possible if news on radio stations were to be heard this morning, because it says today's law liberalises the formation of prices of oil and oil products on the Croatian market and creates assumptions for the establishment of a Croatian oil and oil products agency, which would be to conclude that it is now some new agency, as you have concluded. But it's not. This law changes the status of an existing agency, which until yesterday was the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products. Its name now casts out the part relating to mandatory supplies and becomes the Croatian Oil and Oil Products Agency. Not only does it in its name lose the part relating to the mandatory stock. It is much more important to lose the status it had until today, perhaps until December 2012. We are now only doing this in a certain way to supplement the 2012 amendment of the law when we took public authority from the HANDA, when it was no longer an independent regulatory body in the Republic of Croatia. Now these affairs are being taken over by the ministry through the commission provided for by this law. And that's not good. We should have stayed on that solution stemming from the 2009 Council Directive, based on which HANDA has indeed become an independent institution in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66419	Thank you. Comrade Tušak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66420	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Croatian Labourists – I am looking for a 10 minute break because we received information that the Croatian Government put the Labour Act in session without agreeing with the social partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66421	I'm determining a 10-minute break. Here you go, HDZ. Same reason. HDSSB too. Thank you. Ten-minute stop. We're continuing the debate. Final word on behalf of the HNS Club, Petar Baranovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66423	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Assistant. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In my presentation on behalf of the club, I explained very briefly and very simply why the HNS Club is for this law, among other things, except for the fact that we are part of the ruling coalition. And now I would like to comment on some of the things that have been imposed as topics during this debate, and as regards the functioning of the market, the consequences that market liberalisation will eventually have on the end consumer and the very fact that, by virtue of this law, the situation of HANDA is changing and that HANDA is going under the state budget. I'll start with this HANDA, the agency and the fact that it goes under the state budget. Why? So I believe there is no important link between the process that is happening at the level of the unit of local self-government and regional administration and what is happening with the Croatian State budget. Taking into account the fact that in the last few years, the process of forming treasures in cities and counties is in progress, which takes place quite rightly with the rationalisation of business savings and more optimal use of financial resources. As cities and counties form treasures to pool funds and use funds in the most optimal way within their budget and treasury, so certainly that logic goes to the state budget. And what makes the state budget difficult to fill? It's a very long story and it won't stop in five minutes. It's a story of the failure and leadership of the state without a strategy in the last 20 years and the fact that today we have such a structure and economy and all of those factors formed in the way that they've been formed over these two decades in which the state hasn't been able to function for 20 years without reaching for borrowing every year. It's not the invention of this government, it's not even the past one. It's a matter of continuity, mistakes in the Republic of Croatia. The question of the functioning of the market, the determination of the price of oil. Unfortunately, a few years ago, we experienced a change, a concept of the price of oil that has a very certain link to the fact that we once controlled INA as a large company that was also researching and extracting and processing oil and oil derivatives, and at that time it was important how much INA was extracting from domestic wells in the context of the final price itself, there is... space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It even mattered how much the price of barrels of crude oil actually cost. In 2008, we had a record jump to $146 per barrel of crude oil in a situation where the dollar rate was even much stronger than it was today, so the retail oil prices were much less than the prices in 2009, especially in 2010, after we lost concrete control of INA management. INA has become a company like all other major oil companies that are in line with those that supply crude oil, process crude oil and put it on the market. The price of oil derivatives on the Mediterranean market of the Republic of Croatia cannot be affected. It's something that won't change after this law, nor have we had any influence before this law. This law is an opportunity by liberalising the market for consumers, by enabling consumers to function according to the principle of free market and giving them the chance for the effects of the electricity market to happen in Croatia. The electricity market responded positively. We have a fact of cheaping the entry of other players into the market and the liberalisation of the electricity market or the possibility of free price formation. Indicating that this government has capitulated and lowered control simply is not true because the government has left the protection mechanism that gives it time to intervene and that it will eventually correct this decision if it does not show practical and useful for consumers and consumers on the Croatian market. Article 9(2) states that, i.e. Article 9 "the price of oil and petroleum products is determined in accordance with the rules governing market relations", i.e. the free market. Exceptionally from paragraph 1 of this Article, the Government of the Republic of Croatia may, in order to protect consumers from market regulation or other justified reasons, prescribe a maximum level of retail prices for certain petroleum products for an uninterrupted period of 90 days. So the government has a mechanism if things get out of hand, as a responsible government react, and has a 90-day period to look at the situation to eventually make moves if the consequences of this law are negative. For this reason, the HNS Club will repeatly support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66424	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66425	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Baranovic's, you're intro on behalf of the club, and now, finally, in the name of the club, you've repeated the same thing. So you're trying to defend the fact that until yesterday's dedicated funds that were the original income of the HANDA and which were intended to secure oil and oil supplies and which was no less important for building storage facilities in the Republic of Croatia, which would have opened up in a certain way an investment project and in such investments in the Republic of Croatia, so you're defending what now was the means that could have encouraged some investments to open up new jobs to become part of the state budget and what was until 2012. This is what we got from the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Market Oil and Oil Products. If you think it's good it's okay but then we can't defend the position that this is a good solution because HANDA before this law and after this law is not the same. It was an independent, regulatory agency with public powers that had its original income and which revenues were in line with the European directive intended for the security of the supply of oil to the Republic of Croatia and on the other hand to create the necessary capacity to store these same oil and oil products in Croatia. That was until today, after this, we don't have that kind of money in the state budget. And knowing what kind of situation the state budget is in, we can't expect to invest anything from the state budget at this investment position in the construction of our own warehouses because I say last year there was still 40 million kuna planned on capital investments this year, either.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66426	Thank you. We have a colleague Baranovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66427	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bačić, you're prejudicing things. It doesn't matter whether HANDA is dependent or independent, it's important that HANDA performs its task. That's the essence of my colleague Bacic's business. It's important that Handa carry out his mission. In parallel, the state budget has to work. We can't elaborate in these two minutes' response to the replica which is why and how it came into this situation I repeat, but the fact that it's all relevant for us today is not simply to ensure the functioning of the state budget. In this we must be rational and any possible variant of the optimal use of funds within the budget, the state resources must absolutely be the priority of each responsible Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66428	Next replica, Đuro Popiè. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66429	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague, the whole world and the EU of course thinks and argues and so is organised that this agency cannot be part of such a system as only you obviously claim to be and whether it is dependent or independent. It is not the case, otherwise such regulations would not be adopted at the level of the International Energy Agency and at the level of the EU Directive at all because it would be the same. Well, that's not why they're being brought in. And it's not the same thing and you can't combine the pooling of the funds of those who can and those who belong to the state budget and the budgets of local self-government with something and with incomes that aren't meant to be the hoarding of the state budget. This must not be explicitly and they say, obliging Member States to separate the whole area from the competence of any political influence at the end of the day, is there any common interest in any common objectives. When you talk about price liberalisation and mention, you boast that you did something with HEP with the price of electricity and everything that was made possible when the market opened, and therefore you forced HEP to increase the price of electricity in 2012 by 30%, so you put it in a particularly unfavourable position compared to the market that opened next year. and for half a year HEP could not react because of the tampering and the unwillingness to regulate other regulatory relations within the system so that HEP could do the same. Then you said that HEP was destroyed because it was not allowed to increase electricity prices during a two-year crisis period. Now it's suddenly good to cut the price of electricity, you consider it a great achievement. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66430	Thank you. My colleague Baranovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66431	I'll start with HEP, my colleague Popič, the electricity price has been adjusted by 30% because for political reasons, regardless of HERA's recommendations, you haven't adjusted the electricity price and you've put HEP's business at risk, and among other things, you've been jeopardizing him in years before withdrawing HEP's profits for the state budget. Therefore, there are also a number of tactical details in HEP that would be better off not discussing in this House. and as for your presentation on the practice of the EU countries, it and many others in the context of the room for manoeuvre... the EU gains vary from country to country, and this is very likely to tell you something in its final review by Mr. Deputy Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66432	Thank you. And the closing word on behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister Allen Leveric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66433	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There is no esteemed representative Grubisic, but just to inform him, means according to the general conditions issued by HERA National Journal 158/13, it is defined that the quality in the gas area is and who follows the transport system operator and the distribution system operator. I think that's just because he asked who was monitoring the quality of OTS and ODS gas. The other important thing that's mentioned here today is the data on hydrocarbons, not carbohydrates. There are hydrocarbons in the structures of both the Adriatic and the Dinarids and the continent. What turns out that the data that is recorded and coming out is old before this survey in the Adriatic area is 30 years old. The technology that was used 30 years ago only in the platform area, so I'm getting a lot worse. For example, 30 years ago, you couldn't form floating platforms for the Adriatic area, which means that any global company if it wanted to enter the Adriatic area couldn't because the costs of floating platforms were high compared to the stocks that were in the structures. And at that time, more platforms were used that were attached to the bottom or fixed. Also, the data 30 years ago and the analysis should have been an integral part, i.e. they should have been owned by the Republic of Croatia. And now I'm going to relate to Mr. Boric. All laws in mining, starting from the independence of the Republic of Croatia to this last law that this government has changed, means before the Kukuriku coalition, strictly stands, the ownership of seismic data is the Republic of Croatia. We're the owner. Never did this data come from the INA property of the Republic of Croatia until now, this government has gone into their collection. I wonder which responsible state can let the 15 and more years of data owned by us, the citizens of ours not come under the auspices of the Republic of Croatia. We've downloaded the data, believe me, it's been difficult. All data is under our control and they are now actually owned by the Republic of Croatia. The other important thing that's mentioned here is that the investments in hydrocarbons were not in the previous years. Exactly if you remember the debate on the Mining Act from last year and later the Law on Carbon Research and Exploitation has been pointed out here several times that then the law was anything but friendly for investors. That law had three contests for us, you weren't sure if you found oil or gas, otherwise the gas was before the oil went, you weren't sure it would be able to exploit it. It's precisely with the existing hydrocarbon research and exploitation law and the existing database that we're about to come up with is that it becomes potential and becomes a possibility for them to be exploited. It is also very important to say here that for the members of the Board of Directors, it is clear that I should remind the Agency Act or the HANDA that it was adopted in 2006 then I think that Article 18 strictly states that members of the Governing Council have been elected for 5 years as well as now. We have not changed anything because we believe that just for the safety of the supply of members should be selected for 5 years because the security of supply in any segment should not be compromised. It is also mentioned several times whether the HANDA is in this way through this law to reduce the powers of HANDA and that the security and independence of HANDA is questionable, no, and that European directives do not know it, we do not need to go far into the European Union to have neighbouring Slovenia which has the exact same law, the component of the HANDA budget is functioning. The European Directive does not require an explicit form of functioning, but for Europe it is an important time for supplies, 90 days or other types of supplies. Also, as far as the budget is concerned, there is something called tickets and you have an article in the 15th of this Law and in general known that the tickets are one of the forms of supplies. So the European Union knows the tickets. So they don't have to be everything in crude oil, we don't have to keep as counterpart Radjenovic said in Germany oil, there are tickets, it's possible that Croatia has what's called a reserve for 90 days. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The government of the Republic of Croatia price regulation, follows, etc., in Article 2 there is a nice thing about you called Plac European Markekken and Plac Krub Oil Markets, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia continues to follow prices on the market, follow them on a daily basis as we have done just as we have done until now only because we have published maximum prices every two weeks and have been minimally defined. This time we shall also continue to monitor and at any point we shall see that the supply, i.e. that prices went beyond all frameworks together with the Competition Protection Agency, will be used by the mechanism referred to in Article 9(2). I think I've answered all the questions, yes, okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66434	Thank you, too. If you didn't, there'd be a chance, there's a replica. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66435	Thank you very much. It's not good to throw away statements and ignore facts. So when you're talking about this government being the first to withdraw those documents, then you need to know that in 2003 there was some kind of process of the one who's had all this paperwork and who's been doing research. And that file was supposed to be excluded then, before privatisation. And that's the key thing. Therefore, you cannot say state-owned, because if INA gas was then 100% state-owned, then it was meant to be state-owned. However, the one who was doing the privatisation process of the INA had to at that moment... Some INA stuff. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And rule out a particular INA file because at that point, the state was no longer a 100% owner. And the logical thing about strategic documentation was to be eliminated. And in this privatisation of the INA in 2003, fairy tales could be talked about but only one area is very interesting. Therefore, it is very important at the time when INA was sold at 900 kuna per share, even less than there was unused wealth left in that INA, at which point there was exploitation, which happened later and who made the bus pipeline from Fažana to Zagreb that practically we could benefit fully from the location in the northern Adriatic because until this highway pipeline from Fažana to Lučko we had virtually no God-knowing benefit except the financial from the location in the northern Adriatic. Why? Well, because we had to use other countries' capacities to bring that gas to Croatia, and they let us in as much as they had free. Therefore, it is not good to throw hard words at someone else and praise themselves rather than take the complete process simply because nothing begins or ends with one government, but because of political correctness you simply have to think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66436	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66437	Thank you very much. Mr. Shuker, I agree with you that nothing begins and ends with one government, but I would disagree that since 2003, or we can say since 2004, you haven't seen exactly what you just said, that the data has been taken from the INA, so... today we had data and were prepared much earlier for the investment cycle than we are now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66438	Next line, Djuro Poppie.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66439	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Deputy, here's what my colleague Shucker said. It is not true, in fact, that I do not say anything worse that the Republic of Croatia was not the owner of all the INA data, about all those research results that were carried out when, of course, the INA was a state firm and, in general, it played a role as its kind of energy system, the key system of the Republic of Croatia, and it was never a question that the Republic of Croatia could not use it. When you say you've put it under control now, that means what, that you went with the SWAT team there and you put it under control? That's bullshit. I'm sorry. I'm not gonna be rude. So the question was just, at least in that time that I can testify that there was a question and multiplely asked by the INA itself, if we have where thousands of things, pages, cubes put in what appropriate space. Nothing less than that. The Republic of Croatia has always been able to deal with it and has done so in the end, and do not say anything that you will probably regret at the end of the day. Another thing about Handa. Of course, the organisational form can be whatever it wants, but it explicitly states that funding supplies and providing supply capacity cannot be part of tax revenues and a point. And you can say whatever you want. So you put the money that is intended for this and which must not be part of the tax revenue as tax revenue. That's what makes a difference, and that's where you break international agreements. That's what this is about, the money, it doesn't matter who's gonna be the director of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66440	Thank you. We have an answer, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66441	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Drinker, let me remind you, you asked for INA's data twice during your time as Minister and you didn't get it. If you need me to officially send it to you, your secretary of state sent it, which means you didn't have any INA records. You may have forgotten, but you've asked twice and you haven't won. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66442	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66443	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Leveric, you say that the European directive does not prescribe a way of organising a body in a Member State that cares about safe supplies of oil and petroleum products, but that the state is obliged to provide oil and oil derivatives for 90 days of its average consumption. As the HANDA was created and the result of the implementation of the Council Directive of 2009, it is the number 119, as a central storage body, I will read to you, quote the directive itself: in order to help improve the security of supply in the community known as the specific supplies purchased by Member States or central supply bodies and established on the basis of decisions made by Member States must meet the real needs in the event of a crisis. They should also have special legal status in order to ensure gradual availability if such a crisis arises. To that end, the Member States concerned should ensure that appropriate measures are taken to ensure the unconditional protection of those stocks from all measures of the application. This means that this particularity to the legal status, and in particular the security of the supply of the HANDA guarantee its original assets, the HANDA guarantee it, not the HANDA, but the Republic of Croatia guarantee the original safe, secured funds in its position or in the HANDA budget. And when HANDA depends on the resources of the state budget, knowing what the possibilities of the state budget are, what the revenues of the state budget, what the expenditure and what the deficit of the state budget are, this legal structure of the HANDA does not provide it. Less important HANDA, much more important to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the economy of the Republic of Croatia, and you are wrong to interpret this directive in the way you try to explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66444	Thank you. And the last replica, Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66445	Mr. Deputy, you said you explained everything that the doubts had been expressed here, but you never referred to the board of directors of the agency once. I can wait till you read the messages. ... No problem, I'll wait. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You didn't look back at the board at all. The Administrative Council defines five members, one of whom is the President of the Governing Council, and one of its deputies, appointed the Government on a proposal from the ministry. Paragraph 3 says the chairman of the board is a representative of the ministry. And who's the vice president of the board of directors, whose representative is he? It doesn't say at all. It says there will be one board president and one deputy, and that is one ministry representative, which is what the Ministry of Economy means, and the other will be from the finance ministry. I asked you publicly what the Ministry is, is it possible you intend to change the name of the Ministry of Finance or the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance to give to someone else. There are no prescribed conditions for members of the Board of Directors, nor any prescribed conditions, and they decide on such essential matters - they adopt statutes and other general acts, appoint and resolve the Director and Deputy Director. It means a board of directors who do not have the conditions laid down, even the director of the agency and the deputy director. So there is not a single condition that they have a high level of expertise or at least a few years of work experience, and whether you are for market price formation or administratively in this government has all been mixed up. One day you determine the administrative 30% must collect the price HEP. After a month, says your minister, there is room for a price reduction afterwards. The minister says it's going to change the price. And he says heP should again reduce the price after administrative price increases.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66446	Thank you. There's no answer. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66447	Final proposal of the law on the oil and oil market, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 560. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party. I would like the representative of the proposed Deputy Minister Allen Leverić to show himself, First Committee on Legislatives, Amendment No. 1 in Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66448	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66449	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No 2 to Article 3
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66450	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66451	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment of the Club of HNS Representatives
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66452	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66453	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 85 votes in favour and 32 votes against the adoption of the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66454	We're continuing at 22. Proposal for a law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 582. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. You've received reports. On behalf of the Proposer, the Deputy Minister is with us at the inauguration. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66455	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons entered into force on 30 July 2013 and enabled the development, research, exploitation of oil, gas in the Republic of Croatia according to world practice. The main purpose of the adoption of the Law on research and exploitation of hydrocarbons was to open the market in line with best world practices, foreign investors who are willing to invest in research and exploitation projects, and to ensure legal certainty for investors, which will ultimately have a multiple positive impact on the economy of the Republic of Croatia, such as the growth of investments, the exploitation of important energy resources that will positively affect energy prices, and the development of the industry itself. For the purpose of implementing the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, as defined in Article 64 of the same Law on the Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, this law regulates the establishment of an carbon Agency which is necessary in order to implement the provisions of the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons. The Agency shall be a legal person with public powers who performs independently and independently the tasks within the scope of the acts laid down in this Act, the Law on the Research and exploitation of hydrocarbons and other regulations. The founder of the agency is the Republic of Croatia, and the founding rights and duties on behalf of the founders are carried out by the Ministry responsible for mining. The activities of the Agency for Hydrocarbons have been established by the provisions of the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, as systematic operational support in activities related to the research and exploitation of the same and the permanent disposal of gases in geological structures. As part of its activity, the Agency manages data on hydrocarbon potentials of geological structures, and is authorised to represent and sell to interested investors, prepare documentation for public competitions for the purpose of granting hydrocarbon licences, monitors compliance with the contractual obligations of investors who have undertaken to explore in the Republic of Croatia, taking into account the highest standards of environmental protection, and provides operational support to investors in research, the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia, and with the aim of ensuring maximum benefit for the economy itself. The Agency is doing major tasks, but here I would like to highlight this law, it is envisaged to submit reports to the European Commission on all the difficulties investors face when accessing or implementing activities, demand, carrying out hydrocarbon research or exploitation activities in third countries in which it is shown with respect for business secrets themselves. So it also submits a report to the European Commission. The adoption of this law, i.e. the establishment of the Agency for Hydrocarbons, creates the conditions for the implementation of public competition itself for the selection of the most favourable bidders for the issue of permits and the conclusion of contracts for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, and, therefore, positive ones, as I have said, financial indicators for the budget of the Republic of Croatia through the compensation that investors will pay for those works. Furthermore, the positive effects on the economy will be visible by the next year through investment of the research well, the development of the accompanying local industry, and ultimately at the moment of the discovery of significant reserves and the exploitation of oil and gas positive impact on the final price of energy. We mean oil and gas in the Republic of Croatia. Based on the provisions of the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons at the beginning of the second quarter of this year, the first competitions for granting a permit for research, contracting, exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Epicontinental Belt of the Republic of Croatia are expected, indicating that the establishment of the Agency is a priority for the preparation of documentation to be presented to potential investors in order to familiarise them with the hydrocarbon potential of certain areas in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the opening and preparation of a room, means bases with those data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66456	Thank you too, Deputy. We have two replicas. Dujomir Marasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66457	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister. You said that the establishment of the agency, that the establishment of the agency would achieve the conditions for the exploitation of hydrocarbons, etc. You were still talking. I'm not going to say anything new, but in this replica, I'd like to say what we all already know by setting up an agency, you're going to open up a certain number of jobs. What party? HNS, Kukuriku, IDS. Tell me whose will it be... And you're here to us that by starting an agency, you'll heal the economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, tell me if it's 586 or 932 agencies. So what are you gentlemen doing? I'm sorry I have to get up and replicate like this. So instead of reducing my thoughts to the state administration and the other day I was on a local show where Gjurkovic says you're not increasing the state administration. And I say you increase, and he says we don't increase. So now who's here in front of the entire Croatian public who's right. There's no Gjurkovic, she's down in the cafeteria. What are you doing? Well, you don't hire doctors, nurses, but you hire an administrative staff, which I know whose mistresses. Who needs that? Who do you pay? Who's in charge? Do you even, did you lose the compass, do you know where the North Pole is? Do you also know what this country needs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66458	Thank you too, Mr. Marasovic. Next replica, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66459	Well, I don't know, Mr. Vice President, whether it makes any sense to discuss this issue at all, because the Deputy Minister doesn't refer at all to the remarks that are being made, nor does he want to discuss the bill. That I think that such behaviour in the Croatian Parliament is not at the very least, the least I can say is not polite. But I'm still going to say, no matter what, a few remarks to the question again of the agency members and the board of directors. This is a 152 agency in the Republic of Croatia and it was called an agency or a board of directors. Or maybe when we reach 200, Croatia will be saved. It's probably the way out of the crisis. There is no condition for a member of the Governing Council to be prescribed again. Is it possible that such a law might be? I cannot understand at all that such a law can come to the Croatian Parliament that there are no prescribed conditions. There's a four-year term here. How is the term of office of the board of directors in this law for four years, and in this previous five minutes, I warned five years ago he's been there? What's the criterion of being at the Oil Agency for five years, and here for four years? There's no explanation because any explanation would be irrational. Why don't you limit yourself, he says they can be re-elected. I can be re-elected but once again, no one should be chosen more than twice. No one, no agency, no board of directors. For a maximum of 2 mandates, this democracy requires that one sit in the same places for years. Imagine conditions for the president and members of the agency's management is just a professional study, no years of experience, no work at all, just a professional study. This is a shameful condition. [[Upadica Batinić: Time of fellow Maric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66460	Thank you. We have an answer, my colleague, Deputy Leveric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66461	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So let me answer both of the lines, Mr. Marasovic and you, and I suggest you look at the government's pages of reform measures, and you'll see that we are joining agencies and institutes. Well, you have on the official pages that we do not increase them, and therefore, the esteemed representative Gjurkovic was right here. It also refers to your response, the merger of agencies, the merger of institutes, the formation of what you have formed for years, and what you have created a large number of connects because there are a lot of unnecessary institutes currently in contact with one employee or two. This is exactly the government doing the opposite of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66462	Thank you. Perhaps one clarification, so the Proposer is not bound by the Rules of Procedure to report and reply. He'll assess when he has to, when necessary. That's it. On behalf of the board, does anyone want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club Igor Radjenovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what's going on with the hydrocarbon day, I guess it won't get away with this carbs, it often does. On behalf of the SDP Club, let me say that there are at least two reasons why they will support this bill. The first reason is that it is a good bill, that we assess this agency as needed in accordance with best world practice as other countries do, and because of the expected positive impact on the economy, a debate on the needs and no need for certain agencies has developed. Yes, it is true that Croatia has a really large number of agencies. They were founded for a variety of reasons, but ultimately they count as said earlier, the deputy minister will eventually count what he has, but the less important the number, the more important it is and how effective it is. This agency is in any case necessary in view of what I said and the importance of the job and the amount of money that is spinning, but indeed because of the specificity. Another solution was to stay with the ministry and the clerks, etc., but we think this really is a better solution. On the trail of countries that have done so far well, and never has, it's always good to see other people's experiences. The first reason I explained it, and the second reason why we're going to take this decision is that we've already decided on it. The adoption of the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons at the end of the summer session, which took effect on 30 July, therefore provided for Article 64, that this agency, which we are then doing so, is necessary for the implementation of the provisions of the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons. There were a lot of problems with HANDA financing around the previous point. Yes, no, budget, independence, etc. Here it is clear what the evaluations of the sources of the necessary means to implement this law are. The Agency will therefore be self-financed when it survives because it will be financed from its activities and from the sale of the hydrogen research and exploitation documentation and from the part of the compensation in accordance with Article 30, and for the initial funds have also been provided for in the previous year, and are also foreseen in this budget of 400,000 kuna. Moreover, given that the establishment of this agency gives rise to conditions for the implementation of public... The most favourable bidders for issuing licences and contracting for the exploration and exploitation of hydrogen are also expected to have positive effects, of course, on the state budget itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By law, the Agency is defined as a legal person with public powers who independently and independently performs tasks within the scope of its work and jurisdiction, hence its basic law, the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons. We heard the founder is the Republic of Croatia, and the founding rights are exercised by the Ministry of Mining. Article 4 detailed the activity of the Agency. I'm also on the Committee on the Economy and last time I said there may be some unfortunate and clumsy formulations, probably from somewhere in the translation, lost in translation, they'll probably be in the discussion later. However, it is a law prescribed and described by the Law on the Research of Carbon Exploitation. So it's literally about passing from one law to another, it's not about the substance or some particularly important topics, it's not about the amendment, but maybe in some new iteration to improve a little bit,... He'll probably say something about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wouldn't have lasted any longer. The board of directors is eight members, said just before counterpart Maric, has no conditions and is appointed by the government, members of the Governing Council are appointed by the government, you have negotiated the same ministry representative responsible for something precisely so that laws do not often change. This government has also introduced that we don't settle too much, we don't bother, it means the ministries responsible for both finance and environmental protection and spatial planning, etc. Now we assume that those persons who are part of the ministry will normally be employees of the ministry, depending on which function they are professional persons, whether there is a need to standardise the law further and more detailedly, I personally don't think so. A different opinion is allowed but the Government has, so there are exactly the conditions for these functions, and of course they will carry out their work professionally and responsibly, but good in the country where the news is that the Labour Act is being discussed at all, even in all the discussions that are conducted professionally is one of the first points, and here we refuse to discuss at all what we need in the first place so that we can discuss something else and go to the other side, but the general debate may not be the most appropriate use of expert arguments. It is likely that opposition colleagues will be pleased to have representatives and board members elected on the basis of a public tender. I have already said that the acquisition of funds will only be financing, therefore there will be no cost for the state budget except this initial cost and Article 18 provides that the salary of the president and members of the administration must not be more pay than the Deputy Minister's salary, we have also agreed, the question is how well that is a solution but we have set out that way. Allow me to make another observation, perhaps missing, we have some other agencies, namely Article 16 that once a year the Agency delivers to the Government through the Ministry of Economy and that is, the Ministry of Mining reports to the Government about its results. We have not taken a firm stand on behalf of the SDP Club, there are thoughts of each other. We'll hear other clubs. Given how many more reports we have, if we haven't discussed them, that perhaps my personal position, I say personally that maybe we should consider the revision that all the reports are coming to the Assembly, the number of these content reports, these reports of the form that we receive. Perhaps some reports can also be placed on the committees responsible so that everything does not happen at the plenary session on committees and, in general, slightly less politicised debate, somewhat more concrete, more professionally, I say my personal thinking that maybe some revision of all these reports should be seen, given that we are generally solving them relatively late, so maybe here they remain in the air, I failed to define with my colleagues, perhaps even if the promoter also considered other clubs that we might also commit ourselves to this law through some amendment that this report is coming to the Assembly so that we do not discuss it in this way. As I said those first two introductory sentences, in any case the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66464	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66465	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Radjenović, you yourself said in your opening part that Croatia really has a large number of agencies, institutions, etc. So in the replica, Mr. Leveric, a colleague, Maric, said that in Croatia there are 150 such agencies, the exact number is 180 agencies or centres, institutes and institutions with a total of 22 045 employees. We received this information on the bench because the government on the committee sent us a total number of agencies, a total number of employees and average salaries in those agencies. So, by this law we create 171 agencies in Croatia so maybe it's not some news and it's nothing weird when we've already formed 170 of them, but I just want to say that so far this job has largely taken place within the Resord Ministry and I really don't see any reason if we're 60 years on these premises exploiting the hydrocarbons that now here after that period we need to form such an agency. The more it seems to me that when we passed the Law on Hydrocarbons that on the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature, a representative of the Government said that this agency would be premature in character. There were then words that when the agency is formed, when the procedure for identifying investors in the exploitation of these oil sites in Croatia is implemented, when concessions are distributed, or when the job is done that such an agency will be abolished because it will then virtually no longer have the need for its replacement existence. That was said if you remember the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. But I don't see such a provision in this law that was delivered here to us on the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66466	Thank you. Answer, colleague Radjenović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66467	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As I told my colleague Bačić, the arguments for and against the establishment of the agency were presented when we discussed this law and then they prevailed to establish the agency and we introduced it into the law, so now we can only discuss what the content of this law is, therefore, what is the content of that agency's internal structure and more detailed activity. When I say we talk about and discuss whether a better agency or not is on the trail of the best examples of world practice is just being suggested as it stands. The law therefore also provides for a copy here that the agency is a temporary character while research is conducted and based on competitions, etc. a the law provides that a national company will be established which, on behalf of and on behalf of its founder, will be established. The Republic of Croatia, in full scope, protect interest when one day exploitation occurs. So it's pretty clear in the law itself, and I don't see the need to get things back to square one, but thank God this is a plenary session, so we can see it. About the benefits and needs of certain agencies, which is a small distance from the topic, I think Mr Leveric said well, he will show the time, the intention is already shown on the government's web pages, so I guess we can discuss this if we can't discuss the Labour Act, here I invite you to at least look at these reform proposals on the government's pages and make a concrete and good contribution to which agencies, which are founded by various governments, mostly at the time you were minister, which we will eventually abolish, which we leave behind, which really justify their meaning.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66468	Thank you. We're moving on to clubs. Djuro Popper on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66469	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. So here's another agency, as Branko said, 181. However, here in this law, a serious effort has been made to write what this agency is going to do, and ultimately it is very difficult to understand what the real role will be and what meaning it will be established, except that the law which is said to be set up is respected. And, therefore, we have a very argument here that it is necessary to bring this by emergency procedure because great prospects will be opened for the Croatian economy, for the state budget and for whom not everything, but I remind you, the law that requested it was passed in the 7th month 2013, and the agencies are adopted or adopted by the Act for the formation of the Agency, that is half a year after that. It'll take another six months to find and to make coalition arrangements on who's gonna be in that agency, to hire people. And here we are in 2014 without competition for, quite certainly without competitions for expansion, research and what else. And so, at the end of the term, if not four years ago and so on in the field of research, the expansion of investors as in all other segments will be nothing. You'll hardly be able to hire those you've assigned to that agency, and it'll end. And I announce it because it's unnecessary, because it's pointless. Like the law we tried to help you with, it came out the way it came out and we see that nothing happens under that law. When you're reading these arguments that follow these laws, so let's say there's a lot to find, and here's some interesting stuff from your assessment of the situation. And they say this law is passed to ensure investor legal certainty. So if we don't have an agency, then we don't have a legal investor's safety. Or if we want to interpret it in other words, as many agencies as possible, those more legal certainty. So the more red tape, the more complex, complicated procedures, the more and the better legal certainty. On the contrary, every accumulation of new institutions, new red tape, some new quasi-registrations of vague ones, especially such as this one, or none at all, constitute the basis of the legal uncertainty that our investors naturally warn about on a daily basis. In fact, that is why there is no investment despite all the efforts and convictions of the government's various officials to wait for us to have a bright and investment future. So, a completely missed topic and a completely missed argument to pass this law. It also states that the RH team will be given the opportunity to reach important economic, or energy resources without more investment. So we assume that we will bring some foreign investors, that they will invest tens or hundreds of millions of dollars or euros and that they will put it to Croatia, let's say to the government or to someone else and that we will all live in prosperity. There will be someone coming to invest in the Republic of Croatia for extracting and disbursing oil and gas and that it will be available, that is, as a major energy resource for the Croatian economy. It doesn't work that way and it's pointless. It also says here that it is done in accordance with accepted world practice, that is correct. Each serious state has either the Ministry of Energy or specialised agencies, institutes, institutions that manage the state's energy potential, but not with these definitions. What this agency is about to do is another pointless bureaucratic apparatus. Nothing else. Nothing will be managed, and there will be intertwined various responsibilities and interests, so let's just look at who's sitting in that agency in the board, 9 members and all possible ministries. You probably forgot a couple of them. It's a notorious fact that there won't be anything going on, so we already have nine council members, we have four board members, it's already 13 and we don't know of course when and when the products are going to be created to make it happen, the agency is operating, so I repeat, the next two years of this has nothing to do with it. Furthermore, there was a talk of funding. So there we have the opportunity to see all the chaos and nightmare that governs the air, and then, of course, those who write these laws do not follow closely what certain ministers say and then write total contradictions. It says here, too, that this agency will be independent of funding and that it will sell, which will sell documentation for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons to potential investors and will thus be financed. So we only listened two years ago to finance that energy center. You know how to finance? So they imposed taxes on Croatian energy companies in millions of amounts, so both HEP and JANAF and all those involved in energy are paying the ticket or paying the quasi tax to the centre in order to finance it. This is the independence of funding. But here, the economy minister writes that Spectrum will make a profit by selling the collected data to oil workers. Now who's going to sell the data? The agency or the one that got here doesn't know what reason for the exclusive right to scan Croatia's Adriatic and here on countless occasions, the minister said they would be financed by selling those data. What data will the agency sell? Perhaps those who, in previous statements, are said to have not been available to the state of Croatia. What information will it sell if the minister declares that the Norwegians will sell the data? So that's what it says. Interestingly, I don't know if it's consistent with everything that's been intentional and what other important officials have been saying. And there is still a lot of attempts to sell fog, and here it is already mentioned that Croatia will become Norway as soon as this agency is now about two years from now as it seems to be dynamic that it will even operate, start to come by foreign investors, invest hundreds of millions of euros in research and then joyfully draw oil and gas and then happily Croatia will have the cheapest oil and gas in the world, all investors will come because, with the help of these foreign investors, Croatia will draw cheap gas and cheap oil for our consumers, happy... industry. So these are so unserious, so ridiculous statements that for this speaker, of course it's important that I absorb them as absurds, as one ignorance, incompetence one chaos or actually promoting some lobbies and some interests which obviously in these steps from the very beginning are here and can be seen and can be read from all these activities that the whole thing is going to. So the Ministry of Economy is completely mutilated as far as energy resources are concerned, I would say, if of course we mean personnel. We can see that they're breaking up, and this agency is probably going to leave a little bit more if there's nothing left to be worth. Who's gonna call the competition? This is where you can't see it. There will be some kind of government expert group that will evaluate the bids. The agency will collect and present the bases, then the agency will help investors, then the agency will send the European Commission complaints to investors if they have problems. So it's hard to concentrate at all and consistent and figure out what the point is and what this agency is going to do. So perhaps the intentions are as they are stated in some statements in something but following that regulatory, rules and organisation that exists behind these announcements, behind those big words or after the end of the PR, there is nothing but a big nightmare, chaos and ultimately lost time. I would like to remind you that in 2012, you cancelled a tender issued by the Ministry of Economy for Research and Exploitation. In 2012, the entire 2014 agency was not formed, not a single competition. So I think what are you guys talking about after all? You had some reason to cancel those tenders. But nothing happened behind that. And what investors, what time and what fortune are you talking about when you're so insatiably talking about something here's great potential? Well, it's been known for 30 years that you've discovered hot water that there's gas and oil on the Adriatic. Well, it's nothing new after all. However, there are deep reasons why some wells were sometimes made by smart people and some should never and never end up. And I guarantee that most of them and this will be a very quickly forgotten story of it has nothing to do for the next two years, so nothing will happen, after two years of living as government come on. And anyway, that story will be forgotten as well as a lot of people you've put in public so far, and nothing really happens, and there's no way of accepting such laws and such proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66470	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66471	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow absurd, incompetence, ignorance, nightmare, chaos is what you left us. From 2007 to 2010, you had 92 agencies that spent more than six billion kuna. Under pressure from the EU in July 2010, you reduced to 62 agencies, and after that, we brought the agency through reforms into a state of functioning and clarity in which salaries are not 28 and 30 thousand kunas net in agencies, but have been rationalised and reduced by salaries in accordance with all the salaries in the state services or in the ministries. When you're talking about specialized agencies and energy ministries dealing with these kinds of affairs, and you forget that it's basically writing this well, except it doesn't say that it's a specialized agency that we don't need to do the exclusiveness, but that we're saying that it's an agency that has precisely clear powers to have and why it's working on an emergency procedure right now, and why the agency didn't work when it was defined by law or open possibility that after professionally doing seismic research on the Croatian coast, then the agency is established because it's indicated that there are needs, because there are opportunities, there are interested in exploring and exploiting oil. And so this is the moment when you have to set the system in a way that is precise, not complicated bureaucratic but precise and clear that the investor knows exactly what, how and when. And it is the agency that will serve to make it as simple as possible and what is most transparent is doing the job of exploiting tomorrow's oil and gas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66472	Thank you. Answer. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66473	Thank you very much. I don't know if it's quite true, and are you aware of what you said to your colleague that only after these studies do you start an agency and what about all the fields that are known and for which a tender for the exploration of exploitation should be called? Well, they're not the only fields we know now that have potentially potential findings. What didn't happen, which took three years to wait for it not to be called in the framework of the Ministry of Economy at the end... Of course because you blocked them with this law six months ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why it's all about now, and it's going to be two more years, and there's not going to be anything going on. And in the end, all of what you're saying is that you did this or that result and the state of the economy, the budget, whatever you want, very clearly known, and that and more should not be repeated. Sixty thousand more unemployed than when you found it. Investments hundreds of millions less, a decline in industrial production in percentages, now we will reach and... It's all that's the result of your work at the end, turning from hollow to empty, resulting in disaster. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66474	Next line, Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66475	Thank you very much. A fellow Popijač, who reads Article 1 clearly how this is an agency, however, it is very interesting that we, the agency that has its own incomes of 600 and a few million kunas, remove its independence and drag it into the budget and set up a new agency and give great independence. But the one who looks at articles 12 to 15 is clear to him. Four members of the administration, no work experience to be specified which these members of the administration should have. However, it is very interesting to say in Article 15 that it will manage the accounting of budgetary users. If it is said that this agency will be financed from its own revenues from selling some kind of documentation then it is logical that it will have its own revenues. If it has its own income, I don't see on what basis they would run accounting, their financial operations according to budget users' accounting. But this is a clear thing about how to divide prey. Republic of Croatia among members of the Kukuriku coalition. It simply does not want to be given to any party of the coalition to enter into the atmosphere of any other political option. But I repeat, the food chain of other political parties will come to order.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66476	Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66477	Thank you fellow, of course, for noticing, that's what I've missed to say, all morning we've been discussing a missing agency, it's become part of a state apparatus, it's been cut off funding, some tax revenue has been transferred that shouldn't have been transferred, but here we have new agencies. And with that agency now not being called oil supply but an oil agency. So we'll have two oil agencies, for oil, for oil, look, and that'll be all to boost legal security for investors. So please, it's a joke, forgive me for this, it just takes more and more to say in a way to make it quite clear what it's all expensive. In the end, you mention it well, so it should be repeated, so the minister and the entire ministry boasted, and the whole government were Norwegians in 2D, working in 2D. Today the fourth technology is also known, a submarine shoot. And that they're going to sell, or that it doesn't cost the state anything because they're going to sell that paperwork. Who, after all? Under whose control? How and under what criteria will this be? What investors and companies? Don't those seven ex-sisters or some new seven sisters if you know what I'm talking about, after all. So it's really all wrapped up in one naturally beautiful story of the great future but the essence of the story probably lies in something else entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66478	The point of the story is underwater, right? Next replica Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66479	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned a fellow Popijac in your presentation of a business and investment monitoring centre in the energy sector, which is also a special law as well as this agency was formed in the term of office of this government. When your colleague Gjurkovic replicated to you earlier, he said that this government has reduced the number of agencies, rationalised their business and reduced their wages. So here's the document I mentioned earlier, in the government's response to the parliamentary question, it's said that in that centre that was designed as a small agency, a small centre that will help the energy sector is already employed by 22 people with an average net salary of 12 thousand and 500 kuna, so much for the reduction of the government's salaries in such agencies and such centres. But once the government had decided to build an agency that would be a sub-port to the ministry of such affairs, then it could have given these jobs, as you yourself said unnecessary, but if they had already decided to isolate them from the state administration from the ministry and give them to a special agency, then perhaps it could have given that existing centre, which was also formed for an energy centre to monitor the investments and operations of the energy centre. Well, I guess oil and oil derivatives are part of that energy sector. Therefore, I agree that the agency was absolutely not needed, it is another body that will cost the state extremely large funds. And it is true that the documentation created as a result of research so that the territory and the sea part of the Republic of Croatia is according to the Minister of Property Spectrum, who has investigated all this together, so it is not clear to me how the agency will then have its own resources when the state is already the value, it has left that documentation to a Norwegian firm.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66480	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66481	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague, you should say that I refer to what the agency should be of course. It will primarily depend on the people and the staff who will sit inside. In such examples, I had the opportunity to see them personally, according to the regulated countries that take care of their resources, the largest experts in both energy and mining that one country can and ultimately has. So far we have seen the criteria of employment present with this government and who people are sitting and in what way agencies or seduces or whatever is under the management of the state works. And you mentioned here and this center seems to me, it's well served for a transitional period for a good transfer. Namely, the first leader of this Energy Center is now the president of the Petrochemy Administration, who we hear will soon find a very powerful, powerful, strategic partner, and this is all spinning in one circle and we see what the intention is and what the goal is, and then it is not bad to form another agency so that this sequence and the food chain that Schuker says and continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66482	Thank you, too. Dujomir Marasovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66483	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Drinker, you said you were there... all the ministries and then you asked what they'd do and they'd do something. My replica on you, they won't do anything. Excuse me. These people won't do anything. I want to look around here in some way philosophical-social, whatever you want. No matter what this government thinks she's doing, that's an essential question. What she came to power with, with what she's program and how she's thinking about the state, whether it's maquivelism, whether it's reformism, whether it's bizantism. I don't see any way. This country wonders if you should rent roads. He's getting some agency into the world, so they can say what to do with their roads. This could be calculated within 24 hours. The state asks what needs to be done with healthcare, whether several hospitals and salaries, English or experts from Serbia, from BiH, are to be resolved, and only the French agency is not to say what should be done. This government says we don't need the Peles Bridge, so let's ask the French if we need the Peles Bridge and then when the French say we need them now, they're smart. And then the textbooks Jovanovic sent to review whether such textbooks should be required for the president of Serbia, the head and beard of the Chetnik Duke, and we didn't know if we needed them ourselves, we weren't sure. So what is this government, what is it sure of? Then let him set up this government state management agency and let him go skiing, I guess we'd be better off somehow or we'd get out of the crisis, even in part. So my conclusion is that the government doesn't do anything, is unable to think about anything and de facto feels powerless and works like... what he did, when he wants to solve the problem and he knows he can't solve it then set up a commission. This government is setting up agencies and looking for consultants around the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66484	Thank you. We have an answer. We don't have an answer. Thank you. Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66485	A fellow Popiac, if a law student or an economy were given a seminar work, I would do a proposal for a law on one agency, and if a seminar like this would not go away because so much of it, everything written is wrong, without actually thinking, and here are just a few details. You said yourself, the agency is run by eight board members, and the administration is managed by four members. Well, the fundamental principle is to be as few members as possible for efficiency and to be an odd number, and here there's too many even numbers. Exactly the opposite of practicality and logic. It is said that the funds for the start of work are provided in the state budget, but that the agency acquires funds for the implementation of fees. So if it is not the Agency's beneficiary of the state budget, and it is not only at the outset it uses, then Article 15 says it must run financial reports and draw them up by regulations in the manner in which accounting and budgetary users are conducted when the Agency is not a budgetary user. Not to mention the terms of the board members, they're gone. It's only a condition that someone was born and may be of age, but it's some other law that doesn't even exist here. Just to complete some professional study and be 18 years old or 22, but to equalize a university with universities, equalise school studies with university studies, equalise inexperience with experience, because there is no experience here, it is not prescribed at all, equate ignorance with knowledge is devastating, socially harmful and only one who has passed the process of quitting from thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66486	Thank you. I have an answer, Comrade Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66487	Thank you very much. You've helped my colleague just to confirm this dilemma that I don't know who's writing these laws. As much as there's talk about administration, incompetence, intricacy, intricacies, people for years, and they gain basic administrative knowledge, that these things don't miss out on various filters. Obviously, and we've been witnessing this for a long time that no more filters go by, that a bill of law is going to be drumming up, who knows where and where it's written, that the administration of one who can work and who wouldn't at least miss out on such things would at least have a chance to suggest that something is fixed or that there's no point in sending it any further. It's gone. Everyone writes what they want, comes here and then, of course, the consequences are terribly dramatic and inconceivable. I really appreciate what you've seen here about the administration itself. That's why I said it. So if we want a world agency, then we know who should be standing inside. Then we're calling the head director. I don't know if he's offended by HRT. I don't know what, and for the director of the Energy Agency, it doesn't matter anything. I mean disaster! Well, that's just proof that this isn't seriously considered, that it's an administrative bureaucratic body that's going to be an scribe for someone who's probably already figured out where it's supposed to go, even under the water as you say. And that is why it is important to say these things here in the Parliament that the Croatian public sees what is actually happening, and the consequences, of course, if they succeed, will be dramatic for Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66488	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66489	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, there's a rumor that the essence of the story is underwater, and I'd say it's good to keep your head above the water because when it comes to the ears, it's awkward. But I want to say something about the agency. Now I'm the head of a local self-government unit that exploits significant amounts of hydrocarbons now that we hear this in principle that it's a powerful agency that has references and what kind of miracles I'd say, well, that's good, there's going to be a lot of rent. And then come every little bit we're told last year we had a similar case to say e now will be units of local self-government every little we have will be reduced rent, amount of rent, etc. Every once in a while, we have these stresses even though we have the stress of this exploitation. It's undeniable. But I can't get away from the fact that I'm kind of being associated with this, you've convinced me that now that it's being formed and then six months, so it's not going to work that fast. And then it kind of reunites me with the farm that I always talk about. And why is that? Because yesterday, the minister said that now we're going to have these programmes that we're going to be in the EU, so we're going to withdraw the funds until it is adopted, so while the competition is being opened, it's going to be sometime at the 11th month. It's kind of ideal for picking the giraffes all over me, time to pick the giraffes. So I don't think that's very promising that it's going to go exactly the way it would be. I would be much happier if it went much faster and that we could, of course, and most of all my farmers could withdraw funds if there were 330 million euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66490	Thank you, too. We've got an answer from a fellow Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66491	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. Look, you've seen how it's going to work. So what you've collected in Podravina is what you've collected as long as there's gas that's still under concession and something they're already taking out there. Now that 9 members, i.e. 8 members and 1 President of the Administrative Council, decide on this, and make them the representative of the Ministry of Finance, the representative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the representative of the Ministry of Spatial Affairs, the representative of the Ministry of Science, the representative of the authority responsible for monitoring the affairs of the energy sector and the investment, the representative of the body responsible for the management of state property and the two representatives of the Ministry of Economy. That's how it's gonna work. They will all make nice decisions about these competitions, about everything that needs to be a strategic future for the Croatian economy that will be nice to share investments or whatever. I'm a bit of a cartoonist, of course, but we don't know if it's the agency in charge, whether the government is in charge of it, or whether it's going to be in charge of any of this ministry. So far, at least in that segment, it's been pretty clear who's doing what, after all. So I've read you this a little bit more details to see how the whole thing is going to be further unspeakable and blocked by the possibility of making any serious arrangements especially for the serious investment world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66492	Davor Bozinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66493	A fellow drinker, so this is one of the laws that I understand about a major project of this government, which is a reform of state and public administration. And here's every day we get new contributions and confirmations that it's a very elaborate project. Surely you cannot dispute the fact that there is an export orientation of this government, which was explained at the beginning of the mandate by both the need and the fact that the State Trade Office is being introduced. The State Trade Office worked for a year, then the State Trade Office was abolished, so that all employees would be transferred to the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. After that, he set off a famous road show of ministers across Europe to attract investors. I don't know, something hasn't been talking lately about the results of that road show. An agency is now set up which is the main first task of participating in the preparation and organisation of presentations in order to meet potential investors with the hydrocarbon potential of certain areas of Croatia. So, attract an investor. It's this agency's job, it's the state office's work that's been abolished, which was at the Ministry of Economy, and it's now the job of an office that's moved to the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. Do you think that'll be enough for us or will we have to start another...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66494	Time. A fellow drinker, an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66495	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I think we're going to have to propose the formation of an investment superintendent, because now we don't know how much. You've listed five of them, it seems to me to be the investment agency that was formed in this, for the mandates of this government that should be dealt with by making investments and never less and never more sad in that area. But it's important that something spins. So, to constantly pass some laws that should give the impression that something terrible is going on, it's main to raise dust around investments, to form five different agencies that ultimately you have now said at least three that enter each other's areas. What's the Energy Center doing? And this is energy after all. What's the center for, or the Agency for Investment Attraction? What's this store doing now that she went to the Foreign Office? But at the same time what do the ministries do and what does this government do? The State Inspectorate is abolishing. The crowd of this administrative apparatus, so these inspectors at the ministry, is taking away that fundamental strategic position as it is now in the case of this and for some who knows what reason completely changes the character and role of what the ministry itself should be, and what it shouldn't be. And at least it should be the site of some kind of inspector or inspectorate or I don't know what kind of repressive mechanisms. Here, just as an addendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66496	Thank you. And the last replica of Martin Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66497	Thank you very much. You've spent a lot of time asking and discussing what this agency will actually serve and what it is and what its real purpose and purpose is. But the answer to that question already exists. They will serve what is necessary. And that's how it actually shows an example of another agency, which is Handa. As we know, the HANDA was founded by law and this government has decided to include the HANDA in the budget and become a budgetary user. So we're talking about an agency that was founded under government law and today it's a budgetary user. This Handa, for example, She has some property, too, she did. She had a stake in JANAF. And then the government planned at the beginning of last year, and at the end of last year, it carried out an operation whereby CERP's budget user bought state property from the budget user. The HANDA agency has served as an excellent instrument, a special instrument, a special purple... that one non-transparent debt is actually carried out and that the budget comes up to 500 million kunas of revenue so that two state institutions have engaged in the mutual sale of state property that logically and clearly stems from the Law on State Property Management of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such transactions are totally unacceptable and unimaginable in a regulated European country, but are being conducted in Croatia. And that's what agencies like that are for. And when there's a chance and there's a need, and this agency will serve such a special purpose, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66498	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66499	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague, I think you've been very supportive of the arguments that we've been making all the time about the meaning and the way and in fact the background for what this is all about, and that is more about financial independence and trade in some of the data from which this agency will be financed. Now, in order for this agency to be able to trade with data on findings or potential findings, then they will have to buy these data from Norwegians who now possess these data regardless of what is written in that law before this law is referred to as the ownership of the Republic of Croatia. And it cannot be owned by the Republic of Croatia if the minister says in the newspaper that the one who has now recorded it will be charged from the sale of that data. And since the state thinks to sell that data, then they'll have to buy it from those Norwegians. Here, these are those circles that are thought to be in some circles or the whole government that you don't really see, and that's nothing but, unfortunately, eye caressing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66500	Thank you. Now we're gonna stop working, I'm determining a break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. It's the first club of the HNS and Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66501	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. In the name of the HNS club, a respected representative, Jozo Radoš, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66502	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here before the break, we attended one of the ridiculers who had been performed by representatives of the former government who had managed the country for eight years and for such a responsibility and for this area, of course there were four ministers or ministers, and that the government had left behind the national company involved in the production, distribution of oil, oil products, one powerful company in a clear status relationship, that they had enabled the country's energy self-sufficiency, that they had provided more supply routes for gas, that they had secured gas supply through LNG terminals in some part of the country, that they had been above the level that is average or that the EU is looking for, then the mockery might be understandable but I suppose that the government that would have done so would know what was going on and probably would not be mocking one attempt to improve the situation in one segment of energy. In doing so, some of these had opportunities to know, and they probably know what they were talking about but they didn’t mind making fun of each other, others may not necessarily know, but they also made fun of this bill for half an hour. So there was all this and everything, that it was a nightmare, that it was chaos, that it was an unnecessary agency, bad rules, and if there were no bad rules at all, it was just at the time of that government that didn't do anything in any of these areas. And then, of course, it's easy to mock in such a way that there's actually no real argument here. To discuss here for half an hour that one agency in 181 in Croatia that will employ I don't know how many people, this topic is above the potential potential of potential potential and gains that this agency and this law on which the agency rests, or the Law on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, that was the main issue, how many people this agency will hire and not what this agency is actually carrying out properly. So a colleague, speaking on behalf of the club, said that he would not do anything for two years and after that there would probably not be any more of those authorities, the only thing he said was that if that authority came and it was, then nothing would be done because nothing had ever been done. So it's a very strange kind of debate. It would be too much to talk about how if the Republic of Croatia were to explore and possibly exploit the location of hydrocarbons on Croatian territory or in the Croatian Adriatic, what would the Republic of Croatia have? Why did she get into a position that she didn't have a strong company that could do it on its own? Why hasn't it been done before? Why the footage of the Croatian Adriatic, then based on it and possible and further research of the exploitation has not been made for the past 30 years. The latest data we have on, which, by the way, we haven't had at our disposal, and then this government is accused of boasting about having that data available today and having colleagues available for eight years to own these and such outdated data, but the only data we had. No, I don't. They did not or failed to do so and when the Deputy Minister says that the Republic of Croatia is finally visiting this information then it is irrelevant information, as if therefore there was no room to do so, to do so at a time so as they managed the country and led, of course, the interest and this segment of therefore energy policy of the Republic of Croatia. So this is about the agency that was founded in fact by the Law on the Research of Carbon Exploitation, this is just a technical law that realizes what was written in this law, so in fact all the debate including the substance debate should have been carried out under that law, but obviously it is not an important debate here, here is an important mockery, defamation and of course there were elements of insult in the full level of colleagues, which lasted half an hour here in the Croatian Parliament right before the end. So this job of researching and exploiting hydrocarbons is something someone has to do if they want to work. Whether it will be done by one agency as a government body or by some department within the ministry who employs just as many people because they employ as many people as that job needs, it's essentially an irrelevant thing. So, if this job is going to work and you haven't done it, that's why it didn't take any agencies, then that job needs some department, some management places, some people. Your entire debate was about whether these executives and these personnel were within the agency or within some department within the ministry, and it was more important than what this law carries with it as some potential. It is only about the President and three members of the Administrative Council and there, in some committee, the department of a ministry would also be some sort of management chamber, and other professional staff, professional staff of the department or agency should be equal and that was the topic that took us half an hour of debate, and it was essentially empty, and the most important issues of what possible benefit the Republic of Croatia could have from it, there was not a word about it here. But as counterpart Radinovic said, this type of organization is the type of organisation that is mostly dominant in the world, knows the best world experience. Of course, when you create mechanisms, of course, it's not sure you're going to make it, but we'll see about that, of course. A colleague who said that nothing would happen for two years, of course, thinks so on the basis of the most valuable results of his work when nothing really happened. So this is where a normal mechanism is created, how in times and energy crisis all possible hydrocarbon potentials within a country should be explored, trying to make these research innates the best possible result for the country itself, this is a matter of compensation, how many concessions will be made? It might be best if we had our own company that had enough power to investigate, to investigate, but also exploit, those companies unfortunately don't have any. This is about investment, not just research, but possible exploitation. Well, that's what we need, that's what's most important to us at this hour, so this law, this agency is just an executive body to achieve the two high goals of our economic policy, and that's energy and that's investment. And instead of being analysed metrically, it is exposed to completely pointless complaints of a type that members of the Governing Council do not have a requirement in law based on any qualifications. And these are representatives of the ministries, which writes very nicely, which is based on the fact that the heads of some departments of ministry service must have some requirements for qualifications when they came to those jobs, but this is an objection which one of the colleagues here presented, which is of course absolutely pointless. And, of course, the most important thing in this kind of business is that this agency submits a report to the government on what it does. So one important job for the Republic of Croatia has a body that executes it and, of course, that body reports the most body, and that is the Government of the Republic of Croatia about what it does. And this element of supervision or reporting of measuring bodies in our country has often lagged behind. There's something going on, there's a procedure going on, and then there's not a lot of people actually looking at what's going on, and somewhere else, it ends up or doesn't end up anywhere. So this is where the mechanism is provided, and I don't see what really should be the problem. Of course, only the establishment of the agency and the passing of laws, the fundamental law not of this law but of the fundamental law, does not yet guarantee success, but certainly represents one framework, one important effort to move forward in a very important area and that is why the Club of Representatives of the HNS will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66503	Thank you. First of all, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66504	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the way in which you chair the meeting of the Assembly I'll say, don't worry. [[Intruder Stazić: First please article.]] Don't worry. Mr. Vice President, I'm asking you nicely, I know what the Rules of Procedure is like. [[Intruder Stazic: You have to say at the beginning, you know that.]] Don't interrupt me, you don't have the right to. If I don't say what I say in the Rules of Procedure, then interrupt me. Therefore Wait a minute, I didn't say a word and you're flying right into my word. [[Intruder Stazic: Go ahead.]] What? [[Intruding Stazic: You must say the article at the beginning.]] I have to say the introduction to say the article [[Intruder Stazić: You must say the article at first.]] That's not true. [[Intruder Stazic: No, at the beginning you have to say.]] It's an interpretation of your Rules of Procedure. So in accordance with the way you conduct the sessions, I believe that you have injured Articles 232 and 238, because you very often representatives of the HDZ both during the replicas and during the debate you warn that they have strayed from the topic. Look at the phonogram of the session, the debate of Mr Joza Radoš on behalf of the HNS Club, in the first 5 minutes had nothing to do with this topic, and 70% of his debate was a replica of the HDZ Club's speech. I don't mind that my colleague Rados commenting, but I say if he answered and spoke on behalf of the Club, then let them speak on the subject, if he meant to replicate, he could replicate, so Article 232 to quote him, he says, "The speaker can only talk about the subject discussed under the established agenda." Look at the phonogram of the session, he never said a word about the first 3.4 minutes of the talk. Furthermore, Article 238, the grounds for voicing the firm measures to a representative during the exclusive debate, must not speak of a subject which is not subject to discussion. The subject of the debate has not been anything that the HDZ Government has done in the past eight years, but I say, in a way that, given how you conduct the session, I expected you to act as you treat the MP. I'm sorry, Mr. Vice President, if I didn't say the article right away, and I know when I pick up a plate for the breach of the Rules of Procedure when you're running the session that I have to say the article and you saw that I've been invited to two articles.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66505	Here I let you go over the time of minute and 19 seconds I'm interrupting you now. The Rules of Procedure were certainly not injured in any of their articles. A colleague of Radoš spoke about the law and referred to what the other club also said about the law which is the usual way of discussing it. Neither the first nor the last to do so in this House. But look, fellow Shuker, it's not every time that the Rules of Procedure gets hurt when someone says something that HDZ doesn't like. It's part of a parliamentary debate. At no time or in any sentence, my colleague Radoš has deviated from the usual practice as discussed in this Assembly. He did not speak offensively, he did not speak with disrespect, he expressed his club's position on the bill's proposal and what the other party meant about the bill. You've heard the explanation and you've re-arranged a plate of damage to the Rules of Procedure. Since there is no discussion that after the argument there is no debate with the chairman, I cannot give you my word now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66506	You have to give me your word because look, Mr. Chairman, you have no right to pollute with me. You could have referred our Rules of Procedure to Article 236. That's where the story ended. ... You didn't refer me to article 236 before you lectured me, and I respect that you told me that it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66507	My colleague Shuker has no discussion with the chairman, I haven't lectured you, I've given my explanation on which I have the right and the obligation. I'm not your country of lesson. Now kindly please allow us to continue our work. We're moving on to replicas. If you are not satisfied with my explanation, please contact the Constitutional Committee, so if you do not, then I suppose you consider me right. Then I guess you think my argument is correct. ... And then you're illogical, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Replica Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66508	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Rados, most of course, as fellow Shuker said in his debate, you spent in vain, so how much did you say by trying to deal with the findings that obviously deeply and painfully hurt you, are the truths that both I and my colleagues said in replicas. Obviously, you couldn't talk about the potentials of this law as you respected us for not talking about our potentials because neither of you found a single argument that would guide you to talk about the potentials of this law because it simply doesn't exist. So no potential of this law exists for the Republic of Croatia we continue to claim that the law is meaningless, unnecessary and, of course, including the one that preceded it. As for the high goals and the high results you have had, we can acknowledge that you have high goals, but unfortunately you have very low capacities to achieve them. So we're where the fall is. Let's not repeat what you heard yesterday but today and what we watch and listen to in the media every day about what a disastrous situation you've brought to the Croatian economy, starting with those investments that you've already founded 7 agencies for which you've passed the laws, and you're getting yourself involved in them. And I say, and I guarantee, although you're contesting it, and you haven't said any argument as to why, apart from making insults, it's probably not us, but in the same experience that you won't do anything for the next two years because it hasn't stopped you from at least continuing that direction and that path that we left for you in the last two years. If you hadn't done anything, it would have been much better, and it's better if you didn't do anything to stay in the future for the next two years, you'd all be better off.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66509	The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66510	Well, that's exactly what I said. So we're not going to do anything for two years, so you say, and then you're going to come and do nothing anyway, so they'll never do anything. My debate was about what you're saying and I was telling the club's attitude about your attitudes. It is the usual way of communication in the Croatian Parliament especially if you have mocked the law in your replicas for half an hour. What you expected me to say instead of me saying what you did and saying that that's not a good way because you didn't say anything about being a law. I was talking about being the law. I said that's a standard solution in a very important area, that solution has potential, that you'll give it to it we'll see. But you didn't do anything, you didn't form that body, and you didn't do anything in that sense, and that's what I said. And if it's your high capacity, then it stays, we're going back to the beginning, which is that you really do when you come in if you do that, you won't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66511	Second replica Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66512	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your opening presentation, you spoke of the fact that nothing had been done before in the Adriatic research to determine possible quantities of oil and oil gas in the Adriatic. But you're defending something that went wrong. In fact, no one in the Croatian public nor do we in the Croatian Parliament as Croatian representatives know what started research in the Adriatic Sea. All 3 to 4 nautical miles west of Dubrovnik, west of the Mljet National Park, west of Korcula, west of Hvar, west of Kornat. What document found to be a very suitable location for the use of oil and oil gas that is 4 miles away from the city of Dubrovnik? That's the first question. The second question is why the environmental impact assessment has not been carried out for this method which has led Spectrum to investigate whether such findings exist in the Adriatic from the aspect of protecting the marine environment. Why, on the third question, did the Government go into the business without a public competition and entrusted the job with a very important, very responsible job without a public competition? And in the end these results that the company Spectrum, although it seems to me that this research is still going on... whether they are the property of the Republic of Croatia and whether they are the property of the company and what the situation is and what the status of these results have been found by the company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, you apriors justify something that Which went very badly, I'm going to argue that the target justifies the means. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66513	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66514	If you and your colleagues had discussed this law in such a way, then I wouldn't have said it was a mockery and it would probably have been easier to qualify yours because all the questions you have now asked are logical questions. I don't know how to answer those questions, I don't do executive power, but you have the right as an agent to get answers to those questions. Perhaps you could only be offered an answer to one of these questions and whether these findings that Spectrum will find in terms of the fruit of its work, whether they are owned by the Republic of Croatia or owned by that company. To that question, your colleague Popioč may know the answer, he claimed in his statements that it was the property of that company, Spectrum.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66515	And the last replica, the esteemed Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66516	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Radoš, you have made quite a point of mocking the opposition about this bill and I must admit that I have the feeling that at all costs he wants to prevent their economic policy of energy independence and the opening of an investment cycle. Because the assessment itself that according to one field of investigation, it means research and concession that can make $50 million of investments of which 40% to 60% would end the Croatian budget if domestic suppliers were to deliver some of the goods, and energy independence that would be gained if exploited. If the potentials you mentioned in your speech were to be exploited, it is obviously not to our opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66517	The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66518	My colleague Gjurkovic, I do not know if his HDZ colleagues are trying to prevent the economic development of Croatia. Fortunately, they're in no condition to do that. They may be disturbed by the success of this government because this government will prove to be better than what they were able to give while they were in power. Why they didn't talk more about what benefits the Republic of Croatia could have from it, I understand that well. Because they did with the national oil company what they did, and thus the possibility of using it through the company completely made it impossible for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66519	We continue to discuss clubs. Branko Vuksic will speak on behalf of Croatian Labourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66520	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning, even though we have 150 board funds agencies, we think it makes sense, there's a reason for this agency to exist if it's going to be called that. It is too much work and too much interest of the Republic of Croatia in this case, so it is the Law on the establishment of an hydrocarbon agency on the exploration and exploitation of gas and oil. However, there is now but, first of all, if it is a big job and we will believe the research done in the Adriatic, with which the government thinks it should be a ministry agency or government. That's what the Parliament needs to be in charge of. It should be a state agency and the agency's report gives to the Croatian Parliament. Too big a job and too big a bite to be decided by such a small number of people. I know that the Committee on Economy was also concerned about this, and I know that some members of the ruling coalition also had enquiries why this agency is not the agency responsible for its work to the Croatian Parliament. It is already one of the reasons, if this changes, Croatian Labourists will support it. So we're not against setting up such an agency. With the fact that I don't think that after this, even though the Norwegian company was doing research on the Adriatic submersibles, Croatian parts will become as rich as Norwegian. The question of how the Norwegian company Spectrum is even a bee to explore the Croatian Adriatic. By bypassing Croatian laws. So as soon as we passed the law, the obligation was to exploit hydrocarbons, the law was to call a tender for such research. And now the question has been asked what happened then. It happened next. The Adriatic Research Treaty did not sign the Ministry of Economy, you know that well, but signed by the Ministry of Science. For what? It's because the law has been bypassed and it's said that it's not research for exploitation, but it's interpreted as research for scientific purposes. And that's how he got around the law. This is already one reason to doubt the business. Why would the government control that agency? We're gonna open four eyes because it's too big a business. Some colleagues asked that they didn't have enough information. Here we Croatian laborers have a map of what it looks like, it's a map of Spectrum. Now they're asking how we got that ticket, we bought Spectrum, under quotes. Whose property is that map, then Spectrum. What the law says is they should be state property. The property of the state should be. So these researches that have been done are already widely reported in the media by those who want to exploit Croatia's Adriatic. That's right. Who sells them these results, not the Croatian state, but sells them the company Spectrum and it is a source from the ministry. So what happens now? Does the Croatian state have any control over this, did it participate in any part of the research? Will the INA where we co-owners get some fields that will be good fields, whether the Americans will give more money so they'll get, by heart, any company that makes sense to buy those fields for exploitation. Who's controlling it? Who protects the interests of the Croatian state? Looks like no one's protecting the interests of the state. And since the interests of the state of Croatia are not protected, I will support you with one piece of information, which is, for example, the information that we asked the Minister for an answer. We asked the minister because it was not clear to us, the Anamaria field owned by the Croatian state 51.5%, Italy 48.5%. The map shows very well, this is an old map, so what was previously explored, that this is an Anamaria field actually 2/3 on Croatian territory, 1/3 is in Italian territory, which belongs to Italy. After that, Italy received ownership of 56.7% and Croatia 43.3%, according to which it was investigated that the gas was more on the Italian side. Who controlled it, what was the expertise, who checked it out, who gave whom the results? We and the other wells and other sources have no control over how much gas is being drawn and how much oil oil is being drained. This may be the job of the century, this may be the job of the millennium, but certainly if it is done in such a way as it is now done, to explore the Croatian Adriatic submersible in a way that bypasses the law, to investigate it in such a way without a public competition, that the Croatian Parliament has no control, that a handful of people in a business worth billions, which can be the future of Croatia if what is true is what, we only know what it says in the media. Then we need to ask ourselves who is protecting Croatia's interests and whether we are actually at risk in this business. These are too many players on the world market not to be able to outsmart a few people who are looking to control oil and gas business in the Republic of Croatia, especially if it is as rich as it claims. At any moment, the Republic of Croatia should know how much oil and gas is being drawn, at any time in the Croatian Parliament we should know how these ratios of those who draw, whether it will be meant in oil and gas, whether it will be in money, in what way. We get the drop of information. It's true, we're stuck here for what, the wrong things. What qualifications are members of the agency, completely irrelevant. It's completely irrelevant. It is important that the Croatian Parliament has control over it, that we can also ask at any moment that those who are in this business, who control, at any time must submit reports to the Croatian Parliament. This is too serious. So what happens now? Now Spectrum is investigating or still investigating the Croatian Adriatic and now what are we doing? We must also buy from Spectrum's research results. What's our next step, because we know that or this agency that's going to be in the government's hands will tell us. You can see from these cards that the Italians have gone deep, here on your cards, after which they can also copy your cards if you're going to share with the Laburists part of the cost, that the Italians have gone deep into research on Croatian territory. Who let that happen? This is a violation of the integrity of the Republic of Croatia. But no one's saying that because it's a big business that we little people here can't speak or write. What do we have to interfere with? But there are people who say we don't trust them, here's the information we give you. Ask. I'm just asking questions. I'm not an oil expert. I'm not a gas expert. I'm a parliamentary representative, a politician who has the right to ask questions. I ask the ministry, I daren't say that a handful of six Labourers have the right to ask such big questions. How much will they pay you for the research results? For what's being explored in our backyard, what kind of contracts we made. And finally, the same thing about a big business that was promoted in my Međimurje the other day as the same business, this is going to be a thousand years, this is going to be a century. So be it. Oh, my God. It's fields of Vukanovec, Vukovec and Zebanec. I ask the question, who and when did he give the concession to the Hungarians? On what basis is the contract concluded? It's said there's been a contract. Who contracted concessions when we got the answer that there was no concession agreement. Now they're saying all of a sudden, there's been a signed oil exploitation contract without a concession. How come there's no concession, what's behind this? We are here as a legislative body, as they say, wrongly said "over the Parliament is only God", above the Parliament can only be a Croatian people. We're treating our greatest wealth too freely and it's the Adriatic, and it's researching the Adriatic and it's oil, gas wells, potential we have. Why don't we control our wealth when we're such a poor country? Before we discussed it, my colleague Holly used to say what Norway was doing and we know it well. What do Americans do that don't draw their own sources but subdue wars in other people's fields so they can liquefy oil and spend other people's oil. And we, the great poor girl, are simply saying, well, we're going to give it to others, we're going to bypass the laws, and we're going to give the business centuries, thousands of years to someone else. Without a public tender, there is a seismic survey in the Adriatic, it is a scandal to be discussed, here to do a session of the Assembly only on this subject. This is an important topic in order to talk about the qualifications of members of the agency, you need to ask what qualifications this government is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66521	We're moving on to replicas. The first one was Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66522	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As well as the distinguished representative Vuksic that you mentioned the distortion of actually the integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia by making decisions, giving or not giving concessions, you mentioned the exploitation of oil in your Međimurje at three locations, I think the VVZ is, in a way, the beginning of the names of these places where oil exploitation and that contract will be done. But what I was about to say is that in the 7 years of occupation of the eastern part of Slavonia and Sreme, we didn't have any, but Arkan directly, so Arkan exploited the oil from Djeletovci. When and how the Republic of Croatia tried to protect its rights and what was alienated from sovereign Croatian territory, so Djeletovci are part of Croatia, part of Slavonia. Has the Republic of Croatia ever tried to sue or claim compensation for removed oil from Djeletovci? That's one thing. And secondly, what about the oil fields that we have, let's say cheap in some fear of this conflict in Syria, sold to others, and today the strongest, the richest, richest oil finds in Syria, and there today, they draw oil and make huge money, and the RH is as you said for the little money yourself, you gave it up faster or gave it to someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66523	Answer, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66524	Dear counterpart Grubisic, first in the heat of the debate, Međimurje is not oil but gas. Only if you haven't noticed. ... Yeah, carbs. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] How did you ask the same question, how did your rights protect Croatia? You said Arkan exported oil to Croatia from Djelekovci He drew, yeah. [[Intruder: Rinse.]] But then he was exporting. ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And how do you know that someone of ours wasn't involved in this? You know there's no saying drug trafficking, there's no smuggling of white slavery if not, in no state, the most democratic, if no one from the police is involved, someone from the top of the state. So we're no exception, we know that we're no exception. How do we protect our rights? I tried to illustrate in this debate exactly how we treat the greatest Croatian wealth or the Adriatic, and we keep swearing it. How do we control the pollution of the Adriatic? How do we control the environment? Did we even discuss it? In the Croatian Parliament, it is as if the Kukuriku coalition is not at all concerned. We didn't set up an agency so we wouldn't start that agency to hire a few people. This is too serious a job, and I appeal to the MPs of the Kukuriku coalition, do not let the agency be an agency of one ministry, and that the important issue is decided by a handful of people. This should be the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66525	Second replica, respected Petar Baranovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66526	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's about hydrocarbons, not carbohydrates, respected colleagues. As for the things stated by the esteemed representative Vuksic in his presentation, there are some things that need to be clarified. The Ana-Mari gas minefield is located neither in Croatian nor in Italian territory, but in the area of the Epicontinental Belt of the Republic of Croatia and the Epicontinental Belt of the Republic of Italy. It's an area of extended jurisdiction, not full jurisdiction. It's not part of national territory. The issue of hydrocarbon exploitation in the context of international law must apply to the epicontinental belt, and if they put into this context this method of scientific research of spectrum, then it is very questionable whether the Republic of Croatia is above 12 miles, i.e. national borders at sea, has at all the possibility to prevent anyone from conducting such a type of examination by virtue of existing rules. Here we have opened the thesis in this House of Honored colleagues from the opposition whether it should have been done or perhaps should not have been done. We haven't done anything in, like, 30 years and we've been waiting for the next fact to break our heads. The hydrocarbon bearings located in the continental band of gentlemen do not know about the administrative boundaries unless we encourage the process of research, testing and exploitation through the positive legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia that regulate it then we will experience that they will drill us from their side of the Italians and collect everything. So we don't have time to play with national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66527	Reply Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66528	Dear colleague Baranovic, first of all I could have answered the whole answer here we asked that question long ago. And to write an epicontinental belt, etc. I didn't mean to, I could read it specifically, I could speak in a way that no one would understand. First of all, what did you say was whether or not to be done? Yes, it should be done, it should be done, but it should be obeyed by Croatian laws. It needs to be controlled. That's commendable, and we said we'd back this up. But if it will be controlled by the Croatian Parliament. So we're pushing for it to be under your control more than under our control. Therefore, we do not require anything that would be illogical. It is too much of the interest of the Republic of Croatia, it is too much money and the interests are too great to be decided by the Croatian Parliament. And for every commendation, it's that the Adriatic has begun to explore itself. We're just saying if anyone's asked a question about what's going on with billions in Syria, in Hayan. Do we have any information about this? What's going to happen to that? It's a terrible money. The Croatian Parliament has any knowledge of that? There isn't. We've got too much money, we've got a surplus, so we're not interested in it, but we're gonna dangle the workers, blink as much as you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66529	Replica Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66530	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. You're lucky Mr. Radosh didn't listen to you because he'd accuse you of making fun of the law since you opened up the most of it or confirmed the dilemmas that we held in our discussions here, perhaps in a slightly different way. Actually that's it, I didn't see you find any big sense besides saying you'd back up for some reason. You also mentioned that what is now going on on the big bells would spread through the media so that something that is now happening could not solve Croatia's future and will not be particularly if this law is respected which is now but also the one that was adopted on 18 July on research and exploitation. It says here that the Republic of Croatia has the right to buy all or part of the production of hydrocarbons that would belong to the investor in accordance with the contract, based on market conditions, depending on the method of exploitation. It's never written anything like that before. So anything that could have been done in terms of exploitation could have been done under current laws within the ministry as it has always been and nothing has prevented anyone from doing so. But what's written here right now in these laws just opens up a lot of questions about why they happened and where these laws actually lead. And the second thing that's hidden in all of this and it says, of course, about funding, there is a strong doubt that the agency is being financed precisely from the compensation that whoever exploits these oil and gas fields will be obliged to pay directly to the agency's account which has never happened, and especially since they have abolished the HANDA funding, which is much more important. So that's really a key question that we really need to answer here whether it's true and how it's actually going to be financed by that agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66531	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66532	As for Mr. Radosh, I saw him leave, so I argued. As far as this is concerned, I was talking about it. So a company that exploits oil or a gas-exploiting company has a perfectly certain right and we know that by all contracts, it has the right to do its part or money that I was saying about whether it's entitled to part of the gas or part of the oil depending on what's being investigated and what's being drawn. The way in which this right of first purchase, i.e. in which the Republic of Croatia will buy it all depends on what kind of contracts are, who controls those contracts. It is very important, it is too important that we say that the Croatian state controls how much gas is being drawn or how much oil it is. Who's making the bills? Do we know and who knows, if he knows, let him say here's the deputy minister to say which, at what times and how it will be done in the future? That's very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66533	Last line, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66534	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have shown behind the speaker a map of locations where Spectrum conducts scientific research but to demystify it, this map with locations and coordinates of these locations has every port captain's office since according to the Maritime Code, the Minister of Science, with the consent of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Economy and the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison, can and should be obtained by means of the grace of the port captain. But it's not a dispute here, it's a questionable thing that you rightly concluded, and that's why these papers are brought down under scientific research, not under the one that the Ministry of Economy should give the concession that these jobs are being done. And what is the most reluctant of all is that whose ownership is the result of these seismic research? Minister Vrdoljak says they are owned by the Republic of Croatia, but that they will be sold by the company Spectrum to raise funds from the company to which it sells the data. Therefore, that is what is controversial. How data can be owned by the Republic of Croatia when their use is charged by a foreign company that has reached the possibility of this scientific research without concession, without a public tender under what circumstances. Well, that would interest me, so I'd ask Mr. Leveric to explain it to us, or if he can't explain it to us, the economy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66535	We'll hear from Mr. Leveric as soon as we hear the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66536	Dear counterpart Bačić, as soon as the results of the scientific research are for sale, it is primarily a large questionnaire on whether it was scientific, we know that they were not scientific, that they were research to exploit gas and oil, it is owned by Spectrum because the source from the government of the Republic of Croatia says Spectrum is selling. Well, he can't sell Spectrum something owned by the Republic of Croatia. It would then sell the Republic of Croatia, or someone on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. The biggest question of all the questions is why the law has been bypassed, which is why the ministry that is not responsible for it has concluded a contract with Spectrum and what is behind it? I think there's work here for the State's Attorney's Office, that we need to examine what happened to that. It's too much value, especially after it says that they've pissed off companies worldwide as much of that gas and oil in the Adriatic. I don't think we're even going to bathe anymore, we're going to bathe in oil not in the sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66537	The word is now being reported by Deputy Minister, Honored Allen Leveric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66538	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66539	Here's to the pay phone, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66540	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's just two technical things. Mr. Honorable Parliamentary Representative Vuksic said about ANAMARIA it is about gas ratios, I suggest that the 72nd session of the Government point 20 have a technical agreement between the Ministry of Economy etc. The government adopted him, adopted him on the basis of an elaborate mining... You can get all the information and mining elaborates from a parliamentary representative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry you spent money on this map because the map is currently available on the Internet, anyone can download it. Well, I don't know why you spend money on something that can be copied. And not only is it available on the official pages of Spectrum, as the respected MP Bačić said, has it every port administration, but also has every major conference on oil and gas on the world market has these maps. And, in fact, not only are the routes and coordinates that Spectrum was doing the investigation, but all the fields that are already existing exploitation fields in the Adriatic area have been drawn. And just to demystify research mining works are drilling research wells and identifying spare mineral raw materials, etc., and according to the Mining Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66541	And on this we have a reported replica of Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66542	Dear Deputy Minister, first of all I said that we received an answer from the Croatian government we have all the information that you have now provided. But it's simply not clear the way that it's simply made up who's been doing these research. We didn't get that in response. And it doesn't say, first of all, because a very important job isn't under control. We're saying it's not under control. So we know about it. And this card thing, it was just a joke that we bought. So you think laborers have money to buy? Well, we're not a big party like the SDP that's throwing money away.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66543	We'll continue the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66544	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The title of this legislative proposal is interesting. 582, therefore, the Law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons, with a final proposal for an emergency procedure law. So, hydrocarbons are one big group that even includes sugar, right? We can talk about sugar in the County. But this time we're going to talk about those other hydrocarbons that are oil and gas, right, glucose, sucrose, fructose, they're all hydrocarbons, right? Even flour, we can talk about flour, but I better surprise you with another news except for the kinds of hydrocarbons, which is that the Croatian Government and the Minister of Economy ordered research in the Pannonian Sea given the good and great expectations of the results of research in the Adriatic Sea and I hope that even eight thousand metres of depth in Slavonia will find similar results in the edge of the Pannonian Sea. Here's a secret that I've just said and we'll see how it's going to happen, and we'll see how this so-called rush of powerful investors who would like to drill at 8,000 feet deep in the Adriatic Sea, bring their platforms to the North Sea, as in Norway, etc., beautiful, beautiful everything, epic a few days before the debate on the establishment of an carbohydrate or hydrocarbons agency anyway. Yes, and when doctors were to be defiled on the strike, then there was a film by Ljudožder vegetarian, who in the most ugly and black way detested and depicted Croatian doctors, similarly all newspapers and media houses reported extensively on the statements of the Ministers of Economy and Vice-President of the Government, it seems to me, is not, I don't know, how many hydrocarbons, gas and oil not sugar were found in the Adriatic Sea at 8 thousand feet deep and that there were about 20 of the unaccounted shel, or who else... or as already possible by all world-wide companies and renowned oil oil companies who would immediately jump in but can't before 2020 because there are so many additional research, drilling, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just then, and much later than we all forget together that it was, that Ship Spectrum also found these huge quantities and oil in the Adriatic Sea instead of using those two called fossil fuels or whatever we want, that is, carbohydrates, which is almost inappropriate, and I said why in the beginning because carbohydrates or hydrocarbons are, quite, one broad, far broader concept than gas and oil. Now I'd like to ask myself, when we're already setting up this agency to which it belongs, in the division of Synekura that's been distributed neatly by this coalition Kukuriku coalition, whether it's the HNS or the SDPs, so that we know what it's all about, since so much of the minister's efforts to explain the results of the research of the ship and the Spectrum company, I'd say it's going to be HNS's firm and this speech by Mr. Radosh, just before in these benches, which is very much in favour of this agency and one of 180 and a couple of how many there are in the Republic and this is new, so we're not even talking about it. The costs are written in this proposal, 200 thousand kuna as a basis or a draft in 2013 and 400 thousand in 2014 even have items written, there is a planned establishment before we knew about the results of the research of the Spectrum ship we had planned in the 2013 and 2014 budget for this agency that is emerging, here it is born in the Croatian Parliament and taking away the right of the Croatian Parliament to discuss ever more about oil and gas in the Adriatic Sea. It is an interesting fact and it is interesting to monitor chronological developments in connection with this law and the establishment of this hydrocarbon agency in the Republic of Croatia. There was a question asked whether our domestic company Ina that has the wells she maria and ina participated, we know that there is experience in research and exploitation to say in drilling oil get some kind of position too, an opportunity to exploit oil in our Croatian Mare nostrum Croaticum but about it here I don't see words or they will also go to the competition I don't even know about Spectrum so which company she decides to exploit, she's going to explore oil, and INA is going to see it, are we? And when we talk about a total exploration of oil and this joyous news that we hear from Bethlehem and a star of three wise men from the East, that there is oil in the Adriatic Sea, all of this is for the purpose of reducing the apathy of the Croatian people and, in connection with the state of general, social and any other situation in the Republic, the consumption of sedatives and antidepressants in Croatian society has been increased. Here's the investment coming, here come the world agencies. I guess that, perhaps well, I think that immediately the second day less antidepressants and sedatives were spent in the Republic of Croatia, which is what our Mr. Minister Vrdoljak announced. Thus, the HDZ Government will now say that I speak as Rados, so it announced the joyous news that a hundred billion kunas are drawn by the investment programme of Jadranka Kosor and Minister Jel, and even projects that amount so much, which are projects, knows the minister well former here and only two of these projects were in the Pannonian Sea, so in Slavonia and Baranja. One of them was the Danube-Sava channel, and I don't know anything else about the tiny, trafoscent station in Osijek. These were projects for Slavonia and Baranja. Thus, they also treated the depression and apathy of the Croatian people by declaring investment in hundreds and billions of kunas in the Croatian economy. I'm afraid that this plan that was then and which the people rated will end up the same as Mr. Vrdoljak's election plan. For free of us and Spectrum, free of us and these reserves if everything that has been published is exactly what has been published, it has been famously published in our media if we are not in the way Mr Vuksic talked about, they have been able to turn to their advantage, in favour of the Croatian and Croatian people, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If we let someone else manage it as clearly as there are intentions, and here we will set up an agency, it has its own administrative bodies, it has a director, the director who doesn't, we will pay them neatly, and when the oil comes down, he said he himself, optimistically early in 2020, and by then Vrdoljak won't be a minister anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66545	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First came the esteemed Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66546	I thank the honourable Mr. Vice President. I didn't mean to report on this because I'm really not an expert in hydrocarbons, but what I learned from chemistry from primary and high school is that hydrocarbons are hydrocarbons compounds with hydrogen, and carbohydrates or carbohydrates are carbon compounds with water, so carbohydrates and not hydrocarbons are divided into simple and complex sugars, so glucose, etc., and hydrocarbons are divided into acyclic and cyclic hydrocarbons, for example, ethanol, methane, propane, etc., and these cyclic compounds are cyclic compounds that are, for example, extracted from oil. And oil as such represents a set of different hydrocarbons, not carbohydrates. So oil is not sugar. I apologize for coming out of my profession, but I'm saying I only wanted to share with you the basic knowledge of chemistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66547	Here's the answer to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66548	Mr. Grbin, you really shouldn't have said that because you're mistaken. Namely, hydrogen I hope you know and Latin you have finished right and you know what it says, according to it carbs, hydrocarbons, and hydrogen spell H20 is water, so 2 hydrogen atoms together with oxygen make water, and in some other state there's ice. So what you're saying, so the agency, I wanted to point out in my debate that this name of the agency is completely inappropriate. It's about gas and oil. So, you said yourself, it's a far broader spectrum of what we've been talking about. And this is gas and oil and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66549	We'll hear another line. Stephen Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66550	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm not really going to go into these simple and complex sugars, but I'm moved to replica. My colleague Grubisic had a lot to say today about this agency about its strength, the potentials it will achieve, the results it will achieve, and if so far all this has been done, I can testify personally if I come from such an environment, I have already said today that the Ministry of Economy I think the Department of Mining has worked, worked, worked, worked and never had any serious problems. Now you've asked one question that the agency will do wonders whose story it is. I don't know what you thought maybe who'd come to the table in it, etc. but imagine the irony now of that unit in that expert commission that will be the main one there are no representatives from the local self-government unit on whose ground it is exploited. For example. ...there's not one. They're from the ministry of this department of experts who, then, whose field are we on and the adverse consequences of this and health problems and everything and maybe we're falling and sugar levels like in these afternoons? So that's what I'm saying, that's really one question to discuss. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66551	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66552	My colleague Milinkovic and I also have a Center for Energy, a powerful centre that also has cars with heated seats in its own possession and works terribly. So much investment is booming that it's terrible. Second, we had the Office of Trade, and then the State Trade Office, so he went to the Foreign Ministry, so we have the HANDA for the oil agency, so it's not clear to me that we have a new agency again. Whose is it? I guess they made a deal. That's not my jurisdiction, you're asking me. Ask the deputy at least the minister, maybe he knows whose it is, and he knows who's gonna be the director of that agency. They know all that, and maybe someone still lacks a place to take care of it in this coalition, so they'll find him a place at the agency. And as for local self-government, so I think that in those places where oil was discovered and there's no one there, I don't know who lives on the islands anymore, it's underpopulated there, so I guess they think they don't need anyone, what they're gonna do. They have ministries and will be in the agency of people from various ministries. And more than I expected you to support me on this particular chemical attack by Mr. Grbin to tell him that I'm right and not him.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66553	We continue to discuss each individual for 10 minutes. I hope she's not as funny as she is now. Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66554	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the debate on this proposal for a law establishing an hydrocarbon agency, I would like to say that I find it somewhat unusual actually to want this agency to be set up because I believe that if we want to have more investment in this part and if there are certain bases for the exploitation of hydrocarbons in Croatia that we can do so through already existing bodies and that there is no need to set up such an agency. All right, we've passed a law on the exploitation of hydrocarbons where, among other things, in one provision or even more of the provisions of the law, we've committed ourselves to the establishment of an agency like this. But the fact is that we already have a whole series of different agencies, we end up with an energy investment centre that is mentioned on several occasions during this debate. And who, in my opinion, should be able to do the tasks that are intended for this agency that we are discussing today. And that is why, in my view, the key question is about this law, which is precisely what we want to achieve by this law. The fact is that Croatia has a pretty bad energy balance. We are importing about 50% of our energy in Croatia and this is not good because there are three key areas in which independence is measured, i.e. self-sustainability or self-sufficiency of a society or state and one of those areas besides the water sector, and besides the agricultural sector or food production is exactly the energy sector. Because if you don't produce enough energy, you can hardly be called an independent and self-sustaining state and society. And for this reason, I believe that, to the great goal of the Republic of Croatia, it must be a desire to raise the share of domestically produced energy that we use in our consumption. But the question is whether, even if we find hydrocarbons in Croatia, either in the Adriatic, we will get to some other locations. Thus, in this assessment of the situation and the basic issues which want to be addressed by this proposal, the law states that the establishment of this agency provides conditions for public competitions for the selection of the most favourable bidders for the issue of permits and the conclusion of a contract for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons and thus positive financial indicators for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia with the basis of the compensation for the quantities of hydrocarbons obtained. Furthermore, in the further part of the reasoning, i.e. the assessment and sources of the necessary means of law enforcement, it also states that the carbons Agency for the performance of its activity will in fact be financed from the part of the compensation in accordance with Article 30 of the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons from other sources in accordance with the regulations. And then what can we come to as a conclusion? And we can conclude that, by means of certain activities carried out by the hydrocarbon agency and of course by the government that will call through its special body a competition for the exploitation of hydrocarbons and concessions will actually be awarded to different companies, most of which will naturally be owned by the company. And what Croatia will benefit from will be this concession fee from the part that will be financed by this agency. The question arises as to what will happen to the total amount of hydrocarbons exploited, as this does not give the impression that Croatia will significantly increase the use of these energy fields in Croatia if it does. No, we can't be sure of that. These energies will be able to be sold on any market because they are ultimately rules. And the question is how much will Croatia benefit from it. We know how stories happened with the Adriatic gas-related fields. And I think we need to be very, very careful how we put ourselves in this part of the future. And that's why I don't think there's actually some key need to form this agency where there's going to be a little less than 10 people working because with a different business organization and using already existing resources that exist through public authorities, either through an agency or an energy investment centre that we've had our former first vice president and I, so here's what we've had. And it seems to me that the practice of the functioning of that body has shown that I was most unfortunately right. Now I would also like to refer to article 4 of this proposal of the law on what the agency is actually dealing with. And these are provisions unless I'm wrong, which are completely prescribed by the Law on the Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, based on which this agency is actually formed by this special law. So it says that the agency participates in the preparation, organisation and presentation in order to get acquainted, which means that it only participates but does not organise. Well, I guess they'll organize those presentations for someone else. I guess either the ministry or it's going to be what I don't know what it's called, or it's being mentioned here later. But in any case, the agency won't be the organizer of it. It also makes proposals to the ministry regarding public competitions, which also means that it will in principle only advise again and will not implement more active public competition procedures, but will do so by a professional commission to conduct public competition that will be formed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with special regulations. It is further said that it participates in all activities necessary for the implementation of a single procedure for the issue of permits and the conclusion of contracts, which means that once again only the minister could be said to help, but does not issue what he cannot finally issue. It then determines the costs for research and the implementation of technical documentation, provides conditions for effective enforcement, monitors trends, monitors and monitors. It's pretty much what I'm saying, so not too specific, and that's why it's my impression that more than any of these jobs could have been done by the Ministry of Economy, which is ultimately part of the administration that's in charge of mining operations within the scope of what this is, of course, including this. It also writes that the agency provides assistance to the investor, but a fundamental idea when a energy investment centre was formed was precisely to push energy projects and energy investments and that the Energy Investment Centre also provides assistance to investors in the realisation of different energy projects. They continue to provide support, help to the investor, but it is now being put into place in this part of property-legal relations, but the question is what powers the agencies can do in the first place and the report is being submitted to the European Commission, but the report is not submitted to the Croatian Parliament, and I think it would still be necessary to submit a report on what is going on in the area of hydrocarbon exploitation. And it is later seen that the role of the agency is to keep a register containing data on the exploration of hydrocarbon exploitation, which is related to contracts concluded between investors and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, I said so at the very meeting of the Committee on Economy when we discussed this bill. I think it would be good if all the data related to where the potential hydrocarbon exploitation fields were delivered to the Environmental Protection Agency, given that the Environment Protection Agency is the central body for such a thing. Time's up fast. [[Intruder Stazic: Time please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66555	We're continuing an individual debate. It's my dear colleague Branko Bačić's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66556	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So this Law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons is based on the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, which we adopted, it seems to me, at the end of June of last year, and which the law provides for the establishment of this agency. We were at the HDZ Club, and then we talked and questioned at all about the need to set up such an agency, the more we believe that this job can be done neatly within the Ministry of Economy on the one hand, and on the other hand that there are already bodies already established by the Government that could competently carry out these tasks if it is the government's intention that these transactions are not being carried out within the relevant ministry, although I don't see any reason why these jobs could not be done within the ministry. But what has more occupied the attention of Parliament's representatives during the debate, these are events that take place in the exploration of the capacity and supply of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic in the past few months since the Ministry of Science, I don't know for which reasons, I can only guess, left one foreign company to determine the amount of hydrocarbon supplies in the Adriatic Sea. This process, which allowed the company and the Ministry to approve such research, is based not on the Law on hydrocarbons, but has opened that space by a decision on amendments and additions to the Strategy of the Spatial Arrangement of the Republic of Croatia adopted by the Assembly in June of the month and which was the basis for the study of other unexplored fields in the Adriatic, and for the purpose of possible hydrocarbon research. It is not clear to me, I must say, that the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which is the promoter of the Environmental and Nature Protection Act, could have missed that such an important national strategic document such as the Strategy of Spatial Planning was adopted or amended without an assessment of the environmental impact, such demanding activities, technological processes as the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. It is not clear to me that a resolute ministry whose primary task is to safeguard, protect nature can fail in the process of realising a strategic document that opens up the possibility of carbon exploitation, above all on the Central and South Adriatic. If it is known, I have already said many times that oil extraction is above 200 meters deep, and I am not saying that some of the locations that we have just seen are also in depths over 600 and 700 meters, that this is the most demanding technological process today in a world where, in the case of the calvary, we can forget about such a pure impeccable Adriatic, that one resolute ministry does not ask for an assessment of the need for an environmental impact study, i.e. an environmental impact assessment. It's just incomprehensible to me. However, one skillful maneuver of the Government that proposed such a decision to the Croatian Parliament at the time of the parliamentary procedure was also the Environmental Protection Act, which would have made it impossible for such a change of strategy to come into the situation that today we are talking about the possible exploitation of hydrocarbons near Dubrovnik, Korčula, Hvar, Vis, Trogir. So, all the South Adriatic pearls and the Croatian public did not at any time show whether such an exploitation might be in conflict with Croatia's needs for sustainable tourism development. I don't want to scare anyone with any possible carnage, but that there was no debate in the Croatian public whether or not it's justified, with no idea how many rich oil finds 3 miles west of Lokrum to set up a platform for the use of hydrocarbons that no debate has been opened and that the Minister of Environment and Nature does not find it appropriate that, as one of the preconditions for this to happen at all, the question was also raised. Not to say that from the Green Action, Green Action activists have asked whether this is also the way the scientific research of possible hydrocarbon findings on the Adriatic by means of these air cannons is acceptable to the protection of nature, i.e. the protection of fish species in that part of the Adriatic where such scientific research is done. The ministry has also deafened itself, although in other locations it seems to me that such research through air cannons that are investigating hydrocarbon supplies in the underground has proved harmful. Therefore, I do not understand that the ministry could have left it that way. As for the justification that this was to be done as soon as possible so as not to be others, it is likely that he was referring to the neighbouring country of Italy in our epicontinental band of such research and then having rights to those sites located in the Adriatic. I must say, such fears are unnecessary. Namely, the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the former state, established its epicontinental belt in 1968, and during that determination of the epicontinental belt with the neighbouring country of Italy established the limits of that epicontinental belt, so these limits are now assuming how many and how many states there are in the epicontinental band of both the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Italy. Even more. In 2010, our Croatian hydrographic institute established new boundaries that were measured more precisely than very primitive methods which were signed against today's methods which were established in 1968 and this report by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Therefore, there is no fear. What I'm saying is, you shouldn't have gone too fast with that. I don't see a team anymore as well as the minister himself argues that it is very difficult to expect that oil exploitation could be approached in the next few years, that there has been no public debate in Croatia on the justification of the use and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, especially in areas that are very demanding, very dangerous and where, as I said, this technological process is extremely complicated. We are not afraid that the case that took place in the Gulf of Mexico could be repeated when the British Petroleum polluted the entire Gulf of Mexico and paid huge, huge damages done to its inhabitants, fishermen, etc. etc. that tourism. But it is not normal to go into this process, to make the Croatian public happy with the joyous news of large amounts of oil or hydrocarbons on the Adriatic, without a professional debate being conducted, that not all of them have been found out, but also potential risks if this happens. In this regard, it is even more interesting that this job to determine the possibility of exploiting and finding such rich oil finds in a disputed process is left to a foreign company, and that the Republic of Croatia is not entirely the owner of these results, i.e. that data. Because when I am a minister in his statement he says that the Republic of Croatia is the owner, but that the company Spectrum in the tender process will sell these data to interested oil companies and thus practically deprive itself of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had no cost of performing these scientific works in the Adriatic Sea. I'm not surprised by this process anymore, and I don't know why it was carried out in such a way, why it wasn't carried out in a normal transparent way where this possibility, or even scientific research, would be available to everyone, and then probably the Spectrum company that is the most called and which does such jobs in the Mediterranean would probably get given its references. But then the procedure would be clear to all of us absolutely transparent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66557	Time. Thank you. To end, the closing statement on behalf of the HNS club and respected counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66558	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Why did the permit go to the Ministry of Science? Because if we look at it from the perspective of laws that regulate research exploitation fields here, it works based on the used method of scientific research work with preliminary studies that can only create a perspective on whether to go to the formation of research fields, and then tomorrow, possibly after confirmed findings on the exploitation fields. In the part in which the Republic of Croatia has jurisdiction up to 12 nautical miles and up to the limit of equivalence there are positive rules of the Republic of Croatia which clearly regulate what and under what conditions Croatia gives, what benefits it has and what is economic and financial. We no longer have our national company in the predominantly state-owned, we have laws that we have adopted and fundamental postulates of functioning that we cannot discriminate against foreign companies compared to domestic companies. We have a situation that it hasn't been 20 or a few years in that part that's done anything. In fact, until recently there was a firm belief in the Croatian public even in the one called professional, justifiably more or less, that there was nothing there, zero. There's no oil in the Adriatic. I was so personally informed as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia and as a politician. What can be done from zero in an economic sense? Nothing. Now there's a Norwegian firm that has excellent references, which deals with scientific research and has come to conduct research and on this side of the Adriatic, and the western part there has already been combed. What potential benefit could be of that? They invest their resources, come up with certain data to attract the attention of those players who have both capital and technology and knowledge to come and establish a contractual relationship with the Republic of Croatia whether it is possible to find them within 12 miles or in possible findings in the area of epicontinental areas in accordance with the 1982 International Convention on the Law of the Sea. Do we have any obstacles to ban scientific work outside 12 nautical miles? We don't. Maybe we could have had that we didn't make a circus out of ZERP, or an economic belt in this house, ladies and gentlemen. So today, any EU firm can be fishing, whether science research is any one in the field of epicontinental belt in a water column unless it physically touches the bottom it can do what comes to mind. There are no obstacles to her being challenged by the Republic of Croatia until they physically touch the bottom. The method for using Spectrum as full laymen is clearly not touching the bottom. And we can talk today whatever we want in this House, but from inaction and from zero perception that we have nothing and that we are in this area and in this business completely unspectived this activity that is now being carried out is a benefit for Croatia. What we need to pay attention to is what conditions tomorrow would possibly go into the field of investigation and put God into exploitation. So then they picked up a concession and all those benefits based on a public tender can be obtained from the most favourable bidder. Just to get to the stage of the field of investigation and to have someone start at that stage tomorrow, the second stage is clear what benefits the Croatian economy has in supply, logistics, in the engagement of domestic companies as support for technical, etc., etc. What do we have today? We have nothing, we have a stake in the INA that used to be ours, which wasn't even within 30 meters of the depths, but we were forced to work with the Italians, and under what conditions I don't know because I never had the chance to see those contracts. Finally, as responsible masters, the Adriatic Sea must be explored because the Adriatic Sea is one of the few seas which, apart from the southern Adriatic Hall, so south of the Palagruska threshold, belongs to the category of continent floor up to 200 metres deep and is one of the most favourable in the Batimetric sense for this kind of exploitation of economic benefit. That's why the HNS is with this law and with the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66559	We'll hear the replicas of this exhibit now. First respected Mirella Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66560	A respected colleague of the company, Spectrum, may be the best at it, perhaps not. We did not get a chance to judge whether Spectrum was good or not in that part because the Ministry of Economy and we see that, in fact, the Ministry of Economy, regardless of whether it was from the answer to my representative's question regarding the research of Spectrum in the Adriatic, could conclude that the overall responsibility for this had actually been given to the Ministry of Science. But the answer can be seen from the very answer that the Ministry of Science has been quite reluctantly dragged into this whole story, which I am not surprised at at all, given the fact that Spectrum still treats these data as commercial goods with which the masters of world markets seem to be. Because it sells these data that should actually be strategic data, strategic energy data of the Republic of Croatia. And the fact is that the procedure has not been carried out in a transparent manner and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should have announced the tender so that we can see which companies would all report and who would be interested in carrying out such a job, and what does Croatia really want to get with it? Are we going to get that information, or are we going to be able to buy them out, or are we going to be able to buy them out first? What kind of contract did they make with the Ministry of Science anyway? It was said first of all about the epicontinental belt, that both the territorial and the internal seas of the Republic of Croatia were eventually explored. All of this was later resolved, all of this was solved in walking, and the research dates that are still ongoing have been extended, but it seems that the data is already on the market. There's a lot of answered questions. And the fact is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not acted transparently in this part and this can be easily concluded out of the answer to my parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66561	The replica matches Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66562	Dear colleagues Holly, given the circumstances in which we have been so far, the Government of the Republic of Croatia must act as a priority in a transparent manner when we arrive at phase two and three. At that time, the Government of the Republic of Croatia was absolutely invited in the context of scientific and research works to raise grace which can only benefit if results are obtained by the company at its expense because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has neither such an institution that would be so potent financially and professionally in this work nor has money to pay, nor has money to buy results because what if they are negative, what if they are negative. Now we have information first that they are positive, it can be shown that the total sum is such that they would pay more than to say what to the doctor, so let's not look black, no one has spent a kuna from the state budget, there's an activity that's for the benefit of the Republic, you've self-absorbed that we have to start thinking about post-fossil era. I am a supporter, I absolutely support you there and that we are thinking whether in time while speeding up the race in the grab of existing fossil resources whether Croatia should take part of its cake, whether it has the luxury and the opportunity to waste time. It is a waste of time if everything remains absolutely included in the positive legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia, of course, that the Ministry of Science should have given permission and that I am not doing it again on an investigative exploitation field and on the research activities clearly defined in this business, not touching the physical bottom, using scientific methods and of interest for the Republic of Croatia that we and those who may possibly be partners in this business and the tenants of concessions whether they will enter jobs or not because we have had a repeat zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66563	Second replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66564	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we talk about Spectrum as a firm with certain references to research, we watched on television and on both state or public television, as well as these commercials in the works of that company, or that ship at the beginning of the research. But we didn't even ask what the conditions were, under which conditions the possibility was given to Spectrum and whether it was in the competition, if it was any kind of friendly agreement, friendly engagement, here we now have a problem to determine who would further lead the business in the context of the research and exploitation contests. You said that the southern Adriatic is otherwise suitable for such a kind of gas and oil exploitation but I know and you know and surely you and the problem and there is also a civil association ecological to the protection of the apple boiler that is also in the southern Adriatic and we know why it is because of fishing and all the problems that arise with fishermen from the west side of our Adriatic Sea. So, clearly, someone here has already pointed out that it is necessary to announce the Minister of Ecology in order to assess how much this research and this exploitation would endanger that strategic branch of ours, which is tourism. When it comes to self-exploitation, God forbid we come to such exploitation then there are various models in the world and we know how Venezuela works, how Nigeria works, how Mexico works, so maybe I should think about the best model that would be best for the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66565	The replica matches Petar Baranovic, no. Last line, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66566	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I Baranovic, you know very well the difference between the economic belt and the epicontinental belt and none of our problems that have happened and as you said in this house around the economic belt, have no implications for our sovereign rights that the Republic of Croatia achieves in the epicontinental belt, which represents the seabed and the marine underworld. Although the Republic of Croatia will never want to take advantage of anything in its own epicontinental belt, it cannot be forced on it by anyone or anyone else in its name to use it, but if you are afraid that someone else would do something about our incontinent belt because of our inactions, how to justify that this same company is doing it not only in... the sea but also in the inner sea waters and you know that if you know what internal waters are, that these are ports, bays, areas between the island, islands, the waters behind which are just beginning to be calculated, measured by a territorial sea that is about 12 miles wide, therefore the argument does not stand, you do not need to be afraid that we will have to hurry so that we do not have to use someone else in our name and, for our own account, exploiting the epicontinental belt of the Republic, will not, do not worry and therefore this has no hurry. Such a process that this government has done is speculative, unnecessary, it is harmful for the government itself because here we Parliamentarians have rightly been having problems all afternoon because it did not have to do so, it also troubles the Croatian public to the extent that we do not even know the MPs how when the Government announces a competition for the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea, in the Adriatic Sea I repeat to allow interested companies to access that data. They will address the Ministry of Economy, whether to address the Ministry of Science or to whom they will pay the company Spectrum. I don't understand it, if you can explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66567	The replica corresponds to the respected Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66568	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, when he comes to the stage of the field of exploitation, then it means that investigative drillings have passed and there are very clearly written legal regulations in the National Journal. As for my mention of an economic belt or a protected ecological fishing belt from which the circus was made, the strangest beak has become even stranger in this assembly hall. Let's say hypothetically we could have been able to do this tomorrow to some other firm that without partnership with the Croatian Government, without the approval of the Ministry of Science came to do such tests in the area from 12 miles to the Equivalence line we could simply declare their method ecologically harmful and remove them from that space, forbid them from using that method, we could but we didn't, because it simply de facto doesn't work. Deiura works for the Martians, I guess. So things are completely clear. It is very clear what belongs to the domain of scientific research, who is responsible for it. It is very clear what research fields are and what exploitation fields are, how public competitions are based on the right. concessions on research and physical drilling of test wells and tomorrow on exploitation and drilling of exploiting wells. And it is very clear to all those who are benefits of it, and that you are as a representative of the opposition in this House, of course, it is your political task but it is very pretentious and very ambitious to identify yourself and your party club with the perception of the public and their thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66569	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66570	Final draft law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 582, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that, with 75 votes for and 1 abstention, the Law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66571	We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's 23. Final proposal of the Inspectives Act in the Economy, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 580 Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Committee on Legislatives. You received reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of Economy Mr. Allen Leveric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66572	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The adoption of the Inspectives Act in the economy is directly related to the transformation of the State Inspectorate. In September 2013, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted guidelines for economic and fiscal policy for the period 2014-2016. On the basis of the guidelines given by the Croatian Parliament in November 2013, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the Ministrys and other central bodies of the State Administration was adopted. As the exercise of inspection supervision, the basic instrument of proper application of the law also ensures direct monitoring of the situation in a particular administration area, inspection tasks and other tasks of the state administration in the same administrative area were necessary to unite in the same body of the state administration. By adopting this law, inspection operations in the field of consumer protection, electricity, mining, pressure equipment and management of toxic chemicals will be united in the same administrative body, which will contribute to effective monitoring of the situation in a particular administrative area.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66573	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected colleague, Lidija Bagaric, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66574	I thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the Inspection Act in the economy. As the deputy minister said in his opening statement, it is the result of government guidelines adopted at the end of last September in which the suspension of the State Inspectorate could be said. The State Inspectorate carried out inspection of trade, services, catering activities and the provision of services in tourism, in the field of work and protection at work and in the field of electricity, mining and pressure equipment. For all other inspections, the departments and other central authorities of the State shall carry out in the course of their work. More than 40 inspections have been set up so far, most of whom have already acted within the competent ministries, and only 6 of them have acted within the State Inspectorate. So we had an unequal system with two different models of doing inspection work. And, of course, it was necessary to unite inspection tasks within a particular administrative area. Since the announcement of the transformation of the inspectorates, and especially with the effect of amending and supplementing the Law on the formation and division of the ministries and other central bodies of the state administration, we have witnessed a number of public pressures that the abolition of the State Inspectorate is a major step backwards because a single and independent body is being abolished and that citizens will now be very confused because they are not allegedly going to know who to address. So I would now quote an example or quote from the official pages of a recently active State Inspectorate, which is still available, and on the page relating to the area of surveillance, I quote: "You often address us with questions" means, of course, to citizens "with issues whose content points to the need for the treatment of another body and you express dissatisfaction that the State Inspectorate cannot handle this problem or circumstances. However, the inspection operations of the State Inspectorate or the inspection of certain administrative areas are governed by the Law on the State Inspectorate and the activities are governed by material regulations. The State Inspectorate shall carry out inspection tasks, therefore, monitor the application of laws and regulations in those areas listed in the supervisory sectors. Several groups of questions you give us repeats especially early in the tourist season, without being in the body's area. We therefore refer you to noise and noise protection at the Ministry of Health, on the issue of fiscalisation at the Ministry of Finance, on issues of legalisation of buildings at the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, on matters of health regulation at the Ministry of Health, on the issue of maintaining public order and peace at the Ministry of Finance, on the issue of supervision and protection from fires, also on issues of waste disposal of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature, on issues of the outcome of a solution on minimum technical conditions to the Ministry of Economy, on the issue of export permits and imports of goods from the Ministry of Economy, on the issue of real estate intervention of the Ministry of Economy." So until now, citizens have been very confused for this reason, the State Inspectorate has put this on their official websites, which shows essentially that they will not be confused in the future because they have already been. And nextly, the SDP Club thinks it's unnecessarily politicized, you can contact the replica if you find something funny, trying to convince the public that for the past 15 years we've had a unique and independent system because the fact is that we haven't. The authorities often coincided, and even two inspections happened to work on the same thing and bring different solutions. The same trail was followed by Transparency International Croatia, which claimed that the State Inspectorate had already been abolished because their work was non-transparent and that inspections selectively applied the laws. It remains to be concluded that it is in fact logical for certain inspections to be linked to their resources, as is the case in most European countries. With the transformation of the State Inspectorate, the Ministry of Economy took over inspection tasks in the field of consumer protection, electricity, mining and pressure equipment, as well as state officials and subsistences found in the performance of the work taken. These changes in the work of the Ministry of Economy require the setting up of powers and conduct of inspections in the economy. This proposed economic inspection law provides for an appropriate legal framework for the operation of inspections through an independent management organisation within the Ministry of Economy. The intended inspections in the economy are a market inspection which is responsible for consumer protection tasks, an electrical energy inspection, a mining inspection, pressure inspection and inspection of the management of toxic chemicals in charge of monitoring the implementation of a special law in accordance with the Convention prohibiting the development of production, accumulation and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. A detailed description of all the jobs is listed in the bill, so of course I'm not going to list now. The regional services with their facilities plan to form in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Osijek and Varazdin. The law clearly regulates inspection operations, structure, mode of work, the rights and obligations of the inspector and the area of action of a particular inspection. Jobs where inspectors can deploy, the necessary conditions for employment and progress and the specificity of working conditions relating to the possibilities and needs of overtime or... Inspector to another area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Infringement provisions are also defined, i.e. the amount of fines for infringements of legal and natural persons. In the transitional and final provisions, the law clearly defines that the procedures which have been initiated under the provisions of the State Inspectorate Act which are not legally completed until the date of entry into force of this law will be completed under the provisions of the State Inspectorate Act. And complaints against the decision of the inspector in the field of protection of consumers of electricity, mining and pressure equipment which, until the day of entry into force of this law, has not been resolved by the Board of Appeals of the State Inspectorate, will be resolved by the Commission of Appeals of the Ministry which in this case finally becomes and in the right sense of the word second degree. The law also lists the application of implementing rules until new foundations of this law enter into force. And until the entry into force of the regulation prescribed by the form, content, way of issuing the official card and badge inspectors will use the existing one so that no complete system blockade can be spoken of. In order to regulate inspection operations in the economy and to avoid legal gaps and the uncertainty of the SDP Club, it will support the adoption of the proposed law by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66575	We have a report from counterpart Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66576	Thank you very much. My colleague Bagarić, I am happy, happy that you have faith and hope in the excellent functioning of our newly formed people, would say, although redistributed inspections are distributed across various ministries. But a few years ago here I asked a question on the current clock regarding the wrongly issued concessions by the Ministry of Economy, the mining department in connection with exploiting the exploitation of mineral wealth in the area of Brod-Posavina County, it's about the calcite of the mountains of limestone. In the game were two companies and the Ministry of Economy which, the mining department that decided by signing then-Secret Minister Polancec to do so to a firm although completely incorrect. Now, that second, third, third subject complains to whom? The inspection that's at the ministry. Second-degree statement has a Board of Appeals, right, the same ministry? And only the ministry is a party to the inspection dispute. What's it gonna look like here I'm wondering without any of this to say to you any criticism. So what's this going to look like in a case like this? Hardly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66577	The replica corresponds to the respected Lidija Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66578	Here's a colleague, first of all, I'm glad I made you happy a little bit, and I don't know how much you're familiar with, so the same inspectors so far, so the ones who made the decision were also deciding in the second degree which is absurd. And yet, within the framework of the ministry, we have an inspection board and we have a commission appointed by a minister who is independent. So you still have a third party that decides. So not the same inspectors who made a certain solution. So I think we'll agree that this is still a step forward. And I don't know who you'd suggest to be that needs a side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66579	On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected colleague, Davor Bozinovic, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66580	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here I think this is a good topic, an important topic, no matter how anyone approaches it. We tried to say, at least we from the HDZ Club that this is the moment, at least that's how it's announced, in which we need to take a step forward in relation to the existing situation and that's why we're here, because there's an institution. Unfortunately, with all the effort reading what's on the table today, we can't recognize that step forward, and I'm going to try to explain why. First, this story should be put in context as it is officially announced, reforming the state and public administration in the Republic of Croatia, a reform we have not yet seen, at least in its most important, whole, strategic part. And people in government who are in charge of reforming the state administration when they talk about reforming the state administration talk about abolishing the State Inspectorate as if all the problems of the state administration in Croatia were in the State Inspectorate. My colleague Bagarić, you said in the first part, later you read what is in the law, and I would dare say more than anyone in the government who explained this. If nothing, at least you read some kind of website of the State Inspectorate, so you said something. We've only heard two things from the government, this is about saving and this is about a large number of pending cases, and we don't have a first analysis of how we're going to save anything with this. The fact that someone said they were going to save, it's not a serious approach to work, and that it's going to become an effective or more effective job compared to what it was before, I also don't know what that explanation can be drawn from. Secondly, we have a number of people passing from the inspectorate to inspections by the ministries. We don't know what the number of people is. Don't people matter? Shouldn't we be getting information here about how many people go into inspection mining or energy or don't I know which one? That doesn't matter to the promoter, but he spent less than a minute explaining the importance of this reform project. Of course, a man is at least guilty of having to say what he has to say. Our problem is that we don't understand from this material that is the purpose of the inspection, which is its ultimate goal and what is going through the whole document, but what is mentally going through the organization and functioning of the state service in these areas is that the state is the one that is not wrong, and that only individuals and business entities are wrong. That's why in this bill, you'll see criminal provisions, punish yourself for this, punish yourself for this, criminal charges, criminal charges. And what happens when the ministry makes a mistake, when the state makes a mistake? She can't be wrong and that's that step back. It's not a step back because you're SDP, so now it's some kind of socialist orientation or a return to strengthening regulation, etc. The whole world is going towards extracting what's important and also from inspections to improve the system. I gave Minister Bauku one example of what you said and what's third. You have an example of the American, there's the same inspections by the vaults, every vault has its own inspection, but every inspection has a chief inspector. And you know how to protect their independence, so when you want to replace the inspector, the chief inspector in the vault, American President Obama right now has to inform both homes of the American Congress in advance. That's how you protect the independence of the inspection. I'm not saying it's the only way, but from that you can see how important it is, how important this finding is to come to, because if it comes to the ground that several entities from any branch made the same mistake, and they applied the law in the same way, something is not good in the law. Therefore, the public profile is very important, the public profile of the inspectorate, where, as in other countries, their findings will be published on websites. This will draw the conclusion that the reform will continue. You know, there's only one rule that everyone agrees on when it comes to reform, especially state and public administration reform, which is that it's an endless process. He can always do better. And how we're going to go forward, how it'll be better if we don't use the information we get from the field and from the inspection. But no, there's not a word about it with us. We'll just punish the offenses in prison. It's all right, but it's just part of the job. The second part of the job is how to make the laws as good as possible and as practical as possible. That's why when going into a job like this, as with any reform, it has to be well-communicated. In order for her to be well-communicated, you must know the problem, you must from the level from which that reform is launched to open yourself up to the criticism of everyone involved. We've made a situation here so that these inspections are now going to the ministries. These people are currently unclear, personal. Let it go, can it use an old card, this one, that one. None of them actually know if he'll be an inspector at this point, he won't be an inspector. What's the content of their work is actually prescribed. What they did at the State Inspectorate is now prescribed and will now be doing so in the ministry. It's not a reform. Saving as much as it matters can't be the goal of the reform. The aim of the reform must be a more efficient system, and we have only heard about it here that it will be more effective. How? No one said anything about it, and probably has a clue because it doesn't have an analysis. Our laws have no basis for an analytical basis, which has led the legislator to certain conclusions that he has converted into a proposal. It showed this debate all day today. No analysis, no independent analysis of the institutes of these, those, I don't know who either. Someone stand by their name and last name behind the analysis of the inspectorate's work so far, which was good, which was bad. Because it was bad we suggest things go this way from now on. No, we only have a 16-second statement, and ultimately one of the ministers' statements was hoping to be independent. When they asked him if he'd be independent. I think the minister might not be the one who's going to get an inspection into his portfolio. Is there any hope based on which we are doing system reform? The second thing he said was time would deny us whether we were right or wrong. Well, the second one can't even tell when this is just broken over the knee. So no one here advocates that things stay what they were or that I advocate that the State Inspectorate remain what it was. But we don't have anything to figure out which way to go. I've brought you some examples from the outside. They can't just cross over to the Croatian case, but I'm sure what's proposed here isn't that, that's not the solution. I'm very worried about those lags. Watch out for 40 or 50,000 items. It's a warning signal. How will that, Mr. Deputy Minister, which is your plan to resolve the issue of these delays? How many leftovers are in your vault, how many thousands. Do you have a deadline? Do you know how you'll deal with that? No, I don't. You know, if you keep working like this, then in a few years, someone's going to find out that there's maybe 30,000 people in your ministry in inspection because there's no action plan on how to deal with it and how this problem is solved. So we don't think our administration has to be modern. We only have solutions now that change with solutions past. There's no future here. This isn't any quantum physics. People out there work on problems like this, solve problems like this. They didn't get rid of them, no one solved them, but they're taking a step forward. What we are doing is a step back because I do not see how we will preserve the independence of this institute when you see that countries that have introduced democracy a few years ago have passed this reform law in which even the president of the state as the head of the executive authority have authorised that when the Chief Inspector is about to be replaced, Parliament must talk about it. Both basic and perhaps one of the most important objections is that there is no Croatian Parliament here. So we're not going to discuss the findings of the inspector, we're not going to have any insight into their work. It may be in some kind of report on the work of the Ministry of Economy on the page probably 50 and to some Parliament as a top political body in this country which is in some way, not in some way but also controls the government's work in this section will be mutilated for very important information. And I'm telling you on this and this sort of thing rests the quality of our lives in the future. Without creating an effective, modern administration has no economic growth and no exit from the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66581	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the replicas. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66582	Thank you very much. My colleague Bozinović, you have made this speech very nice, not going too far into the very problem of these articles in the law, because as you yourself said what the inspection did before and on and it was just copied in this material. But what was previously changed for the present leads to the application of the principle that stands, and we stand, in fact, backwards because all other countries are making progress. 2 basic items and characteristics of the inspection are efficiency and independence. When it comes to efficiency, then I can give an example of what beans are best, military. And why is that? Well, because a thousand servings are cooked together in one sentence. Now we've made 20 more servings, each one cooks for himself. Now, independence is divided by ministries, so I really smell a conflict of interest in cases where only the ministry is one of the parties in the inspection. How will an inspector belonging to the ministry, say, assess the application of an inspection to a minister of the economy or some department in the ministry? How will it work when it belongs to the Ministry of Economy? So is this second-degree commission, commission, and it's part of the economy ministry, for example. Or health care, it doesn't matter which ministry. So, that the Croatian Parliament has no authority or interference or even reports of what it has done with any inspection that we do not speak. It's a really good example of this American in which President Obama himself, and any president, come on now Obama is current, deciding on the fate of the Chief Inspector, so after
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66583	Thank you very much. Replication response, Davor Bozinović. You won't answer? Lydia Bagaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66584	At the very beginning, you said that for you this bill is actually a big step back. In fact, I have to say that I would still disagree, even if I congratulate you, every honor in which you have explained most of the thesis in your debate. But if we look at the fact that for the past 15 years, we've had one parallel system where it was a good intention to put all the inspections under the same hat but which obviously didn't live. If in 15 years no minister wishes to give the inspection from the ministry when he already has it, let's assume he won't. Four years ago, your government already directed five inspections from the State Inspectorate to the Ministry of Agriculture. So obviously the system like this doesn't work. That he can do better, of course he can always do better. You mentioned backlogs and no analysis was made. An analysis has been made, and these backlogs have been very worrying, and a large number of inspectors have been found not to work in the field but to be department heads. And now he wants to reduce that number of department leaders, and that's why the majority of inspectors are on the ground to reduce the number of pending cases. And time will show how successful it has been. And independence is interesting, whether the Croatian Parliament and when politics generally choose how much independence there is I think you'll agree to discuss it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66585	Replication response, Davor Bozinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66586	My colleagues, I think it's been a long time, but we should all understand that time you're your government this. You're the government now, you have the government now. At least here are these people here if you look at the debates we're trying to help, we're really trying to help. I will tell you Minister Bauk in the debate on the abolition of the State Inspectorate himself said in his final statement that some of these things and recommendations will be taken into account. Unfortunately, it's not, probably because it's not at the head of state and public administration reform, but well, that's another question. Let's not exhaust ourselves on these things that Mr Grubisic said, standing in a place today is driving backwards. Croatia therefore has no luxury, no more time. These are things that aren't great philosophy. It can be improved. I didn't say that the Parliament should play the role of executive authority or appoint someone, let the Prime Minister appoint him, but then it will be different. Then that inspector will feel he has strength over the minister. It is completely unimaginable that in a situation like this and considering our entire tradition that one of the officials there should be accused or made an observation at the level of the minister that he will do so, especially when he is no longer obliged to put it on the website. You've taken something off the website for this debate, but tomorrow probably won't be it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66587	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Martina Dalic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66588	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bozinovic, this process of disseminating the state inspectorate is explained in its essence and necessary to improve this process and work and to achieve better quality results in this part of the state service. However, what is really lacking in this whole explanation and in this whole intention is the answer to the question and how this goal of improving the results of the former state inspectorate will be achieved, and whether these legislative proposals actually have a real and realistic impact on what may have diminished these results, whether these legal proposals bring any standards which will make new inspection services more effective and motivated, whether these proposals bring any standards, any measures, instruments that will act to increase the professionalism of these civil servants, the criteria that will measure their work and the results of work because, unfortunately, in these proposals, there are not a single word, I would then recognise that there are answers, I would recognise the effort to achieve better and more quality work of state inspectors of different forms. I'm afraid not. And the change of form itself is the least important in the whole process, and that is why these proposals and what we are discussing today are not going to give my real results, and you are certainly right in calling for a comprehensive reform of state reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66589	Please take good care of the weather, we have 12 more points to process and then be in time that by the rules of procedure set out. Reply to the replica Davor Bozinović, please welcome colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66590	Yes, colleague Dalic, that's exactly what it is. The savings can't be and here the official promoter isn't responsible because he's written there in those guidelines one of the measures to abolish the state inspectorate uff, and then it's said that it would be more effective and exactly what's missing, the analysis, all of what you said, how to improve the work? How do you pay these civil servants and deputies or inspectors in this case? How do you value their work? How will it progress in the profession? And that if the government and the promoter and the bearer of reform efforts were to do so then trust me you would not go public with one ad hoc measure and say it was a reform of the administration but would come out with a reform of the state and public administration because it would show that he knows the direction to go and then it's a comprehensive approach, and then that's what comes in front of the representatives and the public and it's said it's a reform and it's not sent with all due respect to fellow deputies or ministers to defend something that's actually cheating, there's no, well you said, there's nothing new, what it was, which was the inspector's assignment in the State Inspectorate are now the tasks of inspectors in the ministry, it's all just not reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66591	And Davor's Mlakar replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66592	Thank you very much, dear colleague Bozinović. If I understand your debate correctly, you are in fact in your cry for the system and for the thoughtful reforms of the state and then probably the public administrations that should happen and you are surprised at this proposal that we have the opportunity to discuss today, which is very similar to what we talked about yesterday and what we will talk about at the next points and this is the clamper of this government which, of course, colleagues from the Ministry of Economy may be at least guilty of. But when we talk about the system, it's what moved me to get back to you. This law, except that nothing new has happened, is in breach of what few systems we had, no matter how many colleagues from the SDP would want to show that it is different. The first thing I can say in the reasoning of the law is that it is passed by an urgent procedure you are saying in order to avoid legal voids and that is your reason. I said yesterday that's no reason for an emergency procedure at all. And this law is to you, if you want the legal void that came into force of the State Inspectorate Act on 1st January, today is the date of 23rd. So we're patching something because we weren't able to do it all the way. And most importantly, I wanted to tell you, the system, this law is contrary to the State Administration System Act and the General Administrative Procedure Act that we had to comply with EU rules, because one body gives the right to make solutions and then, in its committee appointed by the Minister, to decide on complaints about those solutions. That's inadmissible. This has been inadmissible in all systems, let alone now in the advanced EU system, but unfortunately the promoters do not want to hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66593	Replication response, Davor Bozinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66594	Mr. Mlakar, you know this problem better than I do, and you are more critical than I am in your actions. I say in the fact that this law was at least yesterday the talks of those 18 laws that were discussed on 22 January, that they entered into force on January 1st, I didn't see a big problem because we had an application of a rule of a month under a law that had ceased to apply six years ago. So when you compare those two things this is really... We agree I think more or less of everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The public reacted like this, the public reacted to the amount of information available and explained to the same public. There is no reform without a convincing communication strategy, without repeating what is to be done, no reform without leadership. We can't mention this again to a fellow deputy who's the least guilty, we can't see this as a reform when there's no reform leader behind it and he says that's what we did. You can expect that, that and that, it won't be easy. No one said that, at least not here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66595	On behalf of the HNS representative's club, counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66596	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Sir Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. I have to compliment my colleague Boro Grubisic today, this partnership between the State Inspectorate and a thousand servings of beans really impressed me. My compliments, my dear colleague. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS a few words giving its contribution to saving time I will be shorter than 15 minutes allowed. This is the same topic as last night as the one discussed by 18 laws. The same topic that will be on the next united agenda point, I must be honest so I cannot admit that I can't find a motive at least not for now that motivated my colleagues from the HDZ Club to oppose the unification and these points along with the other 8 points, but of course it's their right not to discuss in detail. There has been a lot of talk about the independence of the inspectorate, the former State Inspectorate and the great benefit that comes from this formal independence. I, you know, came from craftsmanship and spent my whole life among these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and today, when I am met as a parliamentary representative by 50% of the criticism of the functioning of this society, this country refers to the work of inspection services so far, and probably to the recents of today. How was that independence working in nature? This independence worked equally to the extent that the independence of one of the independent institutions in this society, which was covered two days ago by the cover of the burden of sin discovered 4,5 days ago by a declaration that green light had been given. A story that someone might drink water I'm a little skeptical here. As this independence worked in the specific case of the State Inspectorate, I never had the opportunity to experience that at the large shopping center of large companies, strong firms that did not exactly accept or some other independent institutions found that the inspectors of the State Inspectorate had entered, blocked the registers and started to work. But I had the opportunity to witness that this was happening to craftsmen and medium and smaller entrepreneurs in the sector of trade who have 2 employees, 5 employees, 10 employees who, in principle, are the ones who are doing very well, who pay something, show traffic, show concrete activity, they need to be filled in by the state budget in principle. The big ones weren't exactly under the influence of independent institutions, I present my opinion in the Croatian Parliament according to the Rules of Procedure. The truth hurts sometimes, but she's like that. ... But I rarely get into words when you talk. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] It's another characteristic of the HNS. In any case, putting in this form or that form is not a fundamental determination of efficiency. In this society, institutions and services will be effective when the responsible ones carry the consequences of what has been done wrong and not done. And the fact is that in 20 years and more of this country's existence, this imperative and that goal have not been achieved in the form of independence or addiction. So let's not formalize, let's talk about the truth and the essence of things. Putting inspectorates under the authority of the ministries is a very clear political person who every 4 years tests their credibility in front of voters in a position that someone cares that their service works, is efficient and operates in accordance with the law. Because the minister who's due tomorrow with the argument that his inspection services haven't worked or that he's abused them politically dead and, as you all know, stays on the road. Politically and perhaps existentially. And he won't care if his service works or doesn't work. Secondly, the motive of this overall reform is, among other things, the decision to try to save some funds and I personally don't know and I don't want to predict how successful it will be. In particular, in the case of transfer to existing premises and the elimination of leases in each respect, the question is how many of these numbers are in the overall context of state finances. What is important is that this is how the inspection services in their respective departments do their job and that in this country, through the functioning of surveillance and repression, the inspectorate is finally starting to introduce order. The fact is one thing, so far the State Inspectorate has not received some great results, for one example only. If you look at the records how many times has this State Inspectorate done surveillance in the reported hair salons? Compared to the records, how many times have they tried to suppress the black work that's going on behind closed doors and we all know it's true. And we all know that there's work on black and in the area of mechanical crafts, hairpins, in the area of fishing. How many times has the State Inspectorate until the legal acts that cover fishing were changed 6, 7 years ago when it was finally unable to contain it legalized the sale of fish from people who were unable to issue an account by law, additional fishing. One law of the Republic of Croatia allowed 14 thousand registered additional fishermen to fish not only for personal use but also for sale. He couldn't issue the bill and he could sell it. And it could have sold. Could be. It could've been sold. How closely did the State Inspectorate control such a type of economy in relation to those who paid both taxes and contributions both pension and health? How independent was he? How effective was he in the context of broad control, and how independent was he when he was to be touched by those who cheered and clothed and cheerful and clothed to a good extent today? That's the question we have to answer. An independent inspector with little to account for. Dependent ministers as heads of ministries under which these inspectorates will work account for Croatian citizens every 4 years. Their success means their survival on the political scene, their failure means their end. Not only them, but to a good extent and their parties who have delegated themselves to the ministry. Therefore, ministers have taken over the burden, it would be good to give little confidence to people who, in a very ungrateful time, act as ministers and lead their resocieties after constant forecasting of the black forecasts. Thank you very much. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66597	Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66598	Thank you, colleague Baranovic. In the first sentence, you mentioned me, so I was offered a reply with a replica. You were talking about my army bean you called it beans, you can call it fazool, but I didn't say any beans or beans, but military beans alluding to the total of all inspection services, so that one total in the quality of the work of all the inspection services is better than such a fragmented inspectorate by the ministries. Here in this half bunker, I haven't heard all your debate very well, but I agree with a lot of things. In fact, very often by inspection and inspection, the small ones were killed. I have a friend who opened up a modern warehouse of construction material and then the inspector came to him and punished him with ten thousand kunas of fines because he forgot to put at the entrance a sign of a 5km speed limit. So much speed can be achieved in the warehouse itself. And he didn't put it in the doorway, and there was a fine of ten thousand kuna. Now, I don't know what it's gonna be like now, Mr. Mlakar, but here we go. So, in order to be independent, to be effective, it is therefore difficult to expect independence and efficiency in the situation where they belong to the ministry. And when the ministry is one of the sides of the inspection that needs to be monitored. You understand what I'm talking about. So, when the ministry is one of the parties in the dispute, inspection, dispute and supervision. How, then, they will be completely independent and completely effective. About that, and I used to say that in a replica when it came to the exploitation of stone in Slavonski Brod, a young... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66599	Thank you. Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66600	Well, the answer is an appropriate tort which he marked in our debates in the Assembly, and this way the sympathetic replica of his colleague Grubisic will be followed by such an answer. Indeed, the experience of all of us who have passed through Croatia and that former army, someone, someone else, is that this pea, as you have said, is well corrected by me who cooks on a large scale in most cases, but I must tell you that I have experienced life and try the beans that cooked very few servings and that it was much better than the ones in the great river.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66601	Martina Dalic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66602	Thank you very much. Well, in nature, things can't be obvious about this beans or beans. However, from your debate, I have concluded that one of the characteristics of the State Inspectorate which you are particularly interested in and which you pay particular attention to is equal treatment to all citizens and I think that you are right and that each and every one of us here, and I think every one of us in our country, is one goal that we would like to achieve that the state services are equally treated. Well, then, to achieve this goal, one of the inevitable means is the political independence of state institutions and state services and instruments as well as how this political independence is embedded in institutions that, by definition, stand at the head of a politically elected person. The answer to this question has been given by many countries and always in the same way, and this is that then state officials and state institutions of such a type are set clear criteria of professionality, the way of choice, the public way of choosing these officials, the procedure of their choices, the procedure of reducing them and so on, and so on, to ensure equal treatment with all because these institutions are among other things an integral part of economic life. What you're up for is actually one exact opposite approach. Political responsibility is, of course, realistic and happens every four years, but in the meantime, there is an economic life that requires professional, motivated, effective officials whose work is valued objectively, not politically chosen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66603	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66604	Dear Vice President, thank you very much. Dear fellow Dalic, you have set up political independence as a condio son of quantio the success of the work of inspection and other state institutions that we have given political independence to all this time. I have not noticed the fascinating results either in the repression of crime, in the repression of corruption, or in the repression or repression of this sphere, which does not necessarily have to be criminal, it may also be criminal when it comes to the work of the State Inspectorate. We haven't exactly celebrated in that model of political independence all this time. And as politically independent as they were, you know Sibenik is a small town, it's hard to create a perception and a clear picture if you went to analyze the number of inspectors in Zagreb, but my town is small, we all know each other, we all know who it is from which... it turned out and how and in what way the individual structures of the service agreed. Well, with your party's reference, it's not very grateful, so don't be angry, talk about political independent institutions. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66605	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66606	Thank you very much. Comrade Baranovic, I was provoked by your finding that the minister who puts the inspection into office or abuses that inspection is politically dead. Well Croatian reality, the Croatian reality disproves you. You have cases in the previous election that a candidate for mayor who has a final sentence is entering the second round of elections. Therefore, we cannot talk about abuse of position, that is, if anything has been in practice in Croatia so far, it has been. You mentioned the reason, this very theme of these laws, or the package of laws, and you're explaining it, you're making some arguments. I'd like you to believe in them, but I'm afraid you don't believe in those arguments yourself. But I'll remind you what it looked like with fiscalization. Remember here the debate about whether anyone was entering the Konzum, whether anyone was entering any of these major centers, and remember how the state protected an ordinary citizen in Zadar. So with that division, that organization doesn't have too many touch points than if you set up a system, but the system of responsibility that whoever does is responsible for what he's doing then we can expect some results. And in this way that we will only change the organisation and something big, which my colleague Grubisic would say is divided into 20 small money, of which there is no luck. And what you end up with is a lot of constant pessimism, so I'm asking you where there's a reason for optimism.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66607	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66608	The reason for the optimism of colleagues is that we have not yet recorded a major case of crime and corruption in the highest state policy in the ministries for two years. Let's leave the prognosis of colleagues, the forecasts can be awkward and can come back as a boomerang, and boomerang when it comes back to you, and you're not ready then it can hit you in the head. So I'm talking about the work of this government so far, about the efforts this government is making to keep the ship on the surface. In particular, she came up with the idea that this way inspection services will function more efficiently and cheaply and let's give the model a chance to show off. It won't take six years to figure out if it's working or not working properly, it'll take a lot less. So when something turns out to be wrong, then let us give ourselves space and need and responsibility to criticise it as parliamentary representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66609	We're moving on to an individual debate. I'm a colleague of Ivan Shuker's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66610	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, if what's going on yesterday afternoon and this afternoon wasn't true, it would be funny, it's so sad. So we're changing 30 laws just because the government decided to change one law. But how do we do that? Yesterday's laws, we're changing laws that came into force on January 1st, and today we're changing the laws in a rather strange way. It would be logical if it were the first of these 8, 9 laws to find out that something would not be done by the State Inspectorate but by some inspection and that as a result, it would be this Law on Economic Inspection, so do those who know what they're doing. However, this assembly likes to use heavy words, it likes to throw mud towards political opponents and cannot see itself. In fact, what's wrong with him is wonderful and wonderful. When such a service is abolished, it would be logical for it to have some kind of analytical background that they did well, what they were doing, and what will basically be achieved with this new structure. However, colleagues and colleagues, if you look at the reasons for these 30 laws to you, the key and basic document for all these, the amendments to these laws are fiscal guidelines and projections that the government has adopted 26.9. It's a key document. In all these laws, the basic reason for amending these laws is this document. However, if we are talking about guidelines and fiscal projections, then it would be logical for each law to say how much money has been spent so far and how much money is now going to be spent. And then when the person who's interested in it sums up all those laws, then he'd see if he was really satisfying and he was in line with fiscal projections or not. But you don't have any other elemental stuff. The third elemental thing is the law passed by this government, in fact the decision to declare the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Design and Fraction of the Ministries and other Central Authorities on 4 December 2013. You have a very interesting article 13 and Article 14. And if you stick to that Article 13 and 14, then it would be logical that the same day at that cabinet session was all these 30 laws. Why? Because this decision on structure refers directly to these laws and logical things when debated in the Assembly this law that the next 30 points of the agenda should be these laws. But I'm saying with all these arguments tell me someone's gonna achieve independence, that it's a reform you're going back to something that I didn't know was when it was just funny. Because if you're going to make some changes then you say we're going to change for that, that and that. That's not what you, you, and you did. We want to do it, that and that. But you don't have it anywhere. You've got quite a reason. You have a first month salary payment. It's not clear to me from which means and on what basis. Because if still in all these laws it is said that the affairs under these 30 laws are carried out by the State Inspectorate, and the State Inspectorate of the First does not exist. So there's no position in the budget. These people don't know why an inspector in fisheries could have done inspections based on some government decision if the law didn't say that it was now done by a fishing inspector or one of these 6.7 inspections that are being established under this law. You know why I'm saying this. Well, that's what I'm saying for a reason this isn't the first month of this government, so we realized that we're going to change something, so we're going to change it, but this government has been in power for two years now. And it was logical that these laws were passed last year at 10 months if fiscal guidelines were adopted at 9 months and that all those who should participate in this process prepare themselves for this. And we can agree and disagree that it's good or not good. I remember the suspension and the financial police. Someone took it out of the clean air, so it started again, so it had some results again, so somebody came back again and it ended again but without a reason. That's the same story with that State Inspectorate. What's key to the repressive apparatus in this country, and all the inspections are repressive apparatus, that's their independence. It's a detachment of politics from their work and that's the key to everything. And the only one who can move politics away from the repressive apparatus is this High House. This High House is the only one who in a certain way with his discussions can protect these people from doing their job. Or if you look at how complaints from Croatian citizens and complaints from Croatian entrepreneurs are scheduled to be resolved here. This isn't about appeals of 100 or 200 people. When you look at how many companies you have, how many craftsmen you have, how many other activities you have, it is several hundred thousand legal entities, so Croatian citizens and companies that tang these complaints. The minister will appoint a commission of 3 members and 3 deputies and this commission will decide on complaints. So do you really think that the complaints of these six inspections will actually have only a few hundred complaints in one year and will be able to resolve the commission. He'll meet from time to time, just impossible. But we've all forgotten something and we can't get away from it, and it's a personal ego of people doing that job. And you once because of a personal ego you... a series of problems, conflicts during the inspection itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The problem cannot be solved by the Committee appointed by the minister, it cannot. Why am I telling you this? So I'm talking from some personal experience. The finance ministry as part of the ministry has a special department for secondary procedure. So that's the leading man who was in the minister's rank and was completely independent and had thousands and thousands of complaints. No, we're going here with a committee to meet, I don't know how many times a week, once in three months. The second thing, these people in the commission must be more experienced than those who carry out the inspection. Why? Well, because every complaint requires a more complex job than identifying and writing records. It's facts, colleagues and colleagues. And what are we dealing with here? With political bickering. Tomorrow, we or one of our own will find ourselves in a situation where this inspection is unwarranted to say so. And then you get this situation of cadiya suing you, cadiya judging you. Is that a step forward? It's not. But if we had created one analytical background which was good, colleague Bagarić had taken down nicely what the State Inspectorate is not doing. Well, they wrote that it wasn't their job and we all know that various ministries have their own inspections, but the State Inspectorate has received some jobs that are as related primarily to two ministries, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy and one part of the labour legislation. So how much of a relative and it was held by the State Inspectorate. And we now without such an analysis, without such a basis, without finding out that something did not work out well, we abolish the State Inspectorate and go back to something that was before but now it's quite different. With practically 5 outposts because Varazdin had to get an outpost due to the coalition agreement, but the question is, honestly, what's with Istria? Is the whole of Dalmatia enough for the centre to be Split? About that later. But I'm saying, these are all the things that can be the subject of political bickering. However, that we went with some analytical bases as far as the controls were concerned, and you well know your colleagues and colleagues that in the summer months and financial inspections and the State Inspectorate pulled most of the forces from the continent because there is a normal thing of the greatest dynamics, the greatest economic activity to control. So these are all facts from which we cannot escape and facts that simply need to be followed by laws. However, when we say these are reform laws, then reform must have its goal, reform must be measurable. And you don't have any parameters here to measure whether this reform has worked or not. We're playing again, we're removing something that the predecessors did, so there's going to be another political option, so she's going to do everything instead of building a system. To eliminate what's wrong, and to see from those inspection findings what's a bad legal solution and to change the laws on that basis would be the right thing to do. But unfortunately, we don't deal with it. We only change something because it's some kind of political option, whether it's good or not. But I repeat, colleagues and colleagues, it's a shame for this High House, and with that I will end up, for us, there are representatives here, no matter what political option we belong to, the shame of these 30 laws. Someone threw literally mud in our face, you have to vote it out even though someone had to make an effort to vote it out by 31.12.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66611	Thanks, buddy. You've got plenty of replicas, so you'll answer. Lydia Bagaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66612	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here at first, in a way, if I noticed correctly, you mocked the logic of the order of the law, that the first law on the economic inspection is this. And logic doesn't exactly tell me that because the law provides for certain inspections that these other laws have to be called upon after if there's no Economic Inspection Act, what's it going to mean? But good, technical part. The second part of which I would say something in the debate, you mentioned that the inspection refers to crafts and companies, and we are constantly talking about the problem of independence. And then, in parallel, you're saying that the inspection will be controlled by the minister. I mean, I don't understand, if the inspection refers to trades and companies, the ministry is a body that proposes laws in charge of law enforcement, and it's logical that the inspection be within that ministry. I personally don't see the problem if within the ministry is appointed an independent body that will be secondary. Here, maybe we don't understand each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66613	Replication response, Ivan Shuker. But sign in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66614	... which are so-called bound by chain laws. [[/The speaker's off, you don't understand.]] Therefore, the Government's decision abolishes the State Inspectorate. In all the laws where the State Inspectorate is mentioned, the State Inspectorate is moving and some new names are being written. And this law that we are discussing regulates how these new names will be organised in the Ministry of Economy. So, until we found out in lex specialis laws that someone else would do it instead of the State Inspectorate we couldn't find out that it would do some kind of economic inspection. So, so much for the order. And apparently you didn't understand when I was talking about the inspector's independence. I didn't say the inspection would be controlled by the minister, but the inspection controls the law enforcement. Each inspector should have a dose of independence and not of political or any kind of pressure. And so, it's the essence of independence that he does on his own, based on conscience and his professional law to do his job. And all the shortcomings these inspectors have discovered in the field have measured whether the law is clear, good and enforceable or not. And if we so measured our legislation with those fiscal ones, the assessment of fiscal efficiency would probably not be dealt with in this way by laws but by other means. Because I repeat, you will see the Law on fiscal responsibility about him we will probably discuss next week, every law will simply have to because of the rules imposed on us by those where we take common funds i.e. The EU will have to make an assessment of the impact of the law in one way or another. And you can't do it any other way than from the inspection results when you see what mistakes occur. And then clearly the law needs to be changed. Therefore, the inspector must be independent, and in particular in the case of a secondary procedure, there must be maximum independence.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66615	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66616	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, there's a fellow Shuker who said it doesn't make sense how this law changes and 30 other laws in the package. I think on the contrary, it is quite logical how they change this law in this way precisely because they did not act in that way and approach this business in the way that in their debate, a colleague of Bozinovic explained it in detail. It is said here that it moves towards the change of this law. According to the 2014-2016 economic and fiscal policy guidelines, a measure to reduce deficits and transform the state inspectorate that no longer operates does not exist since 1 January 2014. Now we should also see how this deficit will be reduced and all these costs will be rationalised when they report here in the explanation that all employees, officials, tenants and all other structural units will remain in Rijeka and Zagreb, Split, Osijek, Varazdin and now the question of logic and illogicality is raised. I think it's very logical that in this way they're going to change this law, given how in just six months we've changed one law twice and even started some constitutional changes because of it. I think this sentence of yours will achieve independence suggests exactly the opposite of achieving addiction and this exclusively political matter and I think that inspections in this way will certainly be politically controlled, motivated and the consequences are far-reaching for all of us. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66617	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66618	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Klaric, therefore, if all the laws were to write how much this new structure would cost and to see from all of this the difference between the total costs of the state inspectorate and this whole thing could be talked about saving. But you don't even have an analytical assessment of how this former state inspectorate worked, but look very interestingly, it doesn't suit you that those who are at the head of that state inspectorate and their branches and you'd like to remove them, how else are you going to remove them than to restructure them, to say that it doesn't work like this, so divide them simply, sweep them completely with your forehead furniture and put your people on it. It wasn't just done in the state inspectorate, it was done in all practical services because it was the only way to eliminate people who still had some work results. Maybe they could've been better, maybe they did, but this is the kind of impotence that this has been done simply suggests that it's the only reason for that, because if you want to be a guy and do something like this, then you do it the way it is, don't you, that it's just not seen from the plane why it's done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66619	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66620	Thank you, Vice President. In this very short replica, I'm going to try to look back on this part purely on what you mentioned, and that's actually the reason for the change in this legal solution. A lot of things I would, I would agree with you if everything was okay if the State Inspectorate would do his job. What my colleague Bagarić said and you pointed out what the state inspectorate is saying and what are the main difficulties in the work is, in fact, the lack of coordination between certain ministries and therefore there are 50,000 pending cases and there would be a trail of what my colleague Baranovic said agreed with him that more effective work would actually be achieved if the ministry was behind every single inspector in the jurisdiction it has. In this way I think a lot of things would be solved in that mission, the vision of actually the inspectorate that he has, and that's either the inspector, and that's primarily law enforcement, here's thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66621	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66622	Comrade Žagar, I would agree with you that in materials as the basis for all these changes are not fiscal projections, but the number of pending cases. But in the administration you have one very interesting thing, which in the inspection services means a pending case, because in inspection services, the pending item is the only inspection order, so someone didn't carry it out. So here it had to be explained that someone had issued, say, a thousand control orders, and that only a table had been carried out. Because at the moment when the inspector makes the record and if the party does not complain about it, it is the finished object that is not the unfinished object, whether the penalty has been charged or not under that record, it is the second pair of shoes. The administration is therefore quite complicated and complex and should be known. So, to say that there were a lot of unfinished items, what does that mean, that the other half-completed records? It can't be half-completed if someone went into control but then let it stand here so we'll know that there are so many and so many second-degree cases in the state inspectorate that haven't solved the second degree, which is why the second degree will be organised differently and I have nothing against it. It's the right of one who's in power to organize a service that suits him and how he thinks it'll be more effective, and give me some arguments that maybe I doubt it, so I'll be restrained, but after a year or two, I'll ask you for power, so wait a minute, the work results aren't exactly that. But when you don't have it, you're saying that the only reason for this is because of all the expensive fiscal projections, then you don't write me how much this is going to cost, and how do you expect us to believe that? So, it's only about that, I think we can crack around the organizational form, the logical thing, more people, more ways of organization, and if it wasn't so likely we'd still be somewhere in the trees and God forbid there were more ideas, but give me a basis to discuss ideas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66623	Thank you. Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66624	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would continue immediately after Mr Shuker, although the replica is him, so fiscal projections that are not explained are the reasons behind the reform of the public administration, in the light of at least this material for such a change, or the abolition of the state inspectorate. The abolition of the State Inspectorate in such a way that its parts are attached to certain ministries can in fact be freely said to lose the independence of these inspectorates because, if I repeat it again, for the third time only the Ministry or Minister or someone from the Ministry of the Parties in the inspection process, that the inspectorate that is in that ministry will make a decision or any other. Very difficult. The second-degree procedure is a committee procedure appointed by the minister. How can a party in the process even expect justice, righteousness, or I do not know what is in such a procedure in which only the ministry is one of them? Come on, how? I actually support this debate of yours just in that it's losing a large part of the independence of the inspection, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66625	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66626	Look, my colleague Grubisic, he won't be Mr. Leveric as deputy minister and minister or any assistant in the morning gather the inspectors, you have six of them here and tell them the warrant you're going here and there. So these six inspections or seven, as many as are numbered here, 8, it doesn't matter, or the ones that happened yesterday 18 in Jakovina, has to have a man, first in the ministry, who's going to lie some story about how it should be done, and also by some kind of outposts about how it's going to be organized again, there's got to be someone who's going to lie about it all together. Now, look, instead of the Chief State Inspector and his 4.5 assistants, you will now, as far as we've changed the question of God, 28, 27 laws, receive in each ministry 28 of the Chiefs of Inspectors. So you'll probably get their 28 times 2 deputies. So then you'll get just as many bosses because there's specialized inspections going on here, there's no more messing around that everyone's going to control anything. By the outposts, you'll have your boss and boss's deputy again. Now somebody tell me when all this is summed up is that more, is that less? Why was I talking about second degree? The second stage simply has to tell the inspector with the big ego and the big minister at some point that what was done and what was meant to be said that he was wrong, that he was not so, but that he was doing it by law and that if we wanted to do it, we needed to change the law. This is the purpose of the second degree is practically discharging the courts in Croatia because if the problem is not solved at the second degree, it is practically going to the administrative procedure and we can go to the Supreme Court. So let's not think that these services are just so lame. And so if there's anything we need to stand up for in this High House, we need to stand up for independent repressive services, to respond here, but also that nobody orders them to do anything and how to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66627	And Branko Box, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66628	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you mentioned two key words, independence and system building. That building up the system will be nothing, the government showed at the very beginning two years ago, and I will remind you, and all of us here who are now that the same decision of feathers has changed 162 seems to me to be the headmaster of the administration and thus the system is decapitated. Here, so that's one of the examples of how it started and made it known which way it was going to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66629	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66630	Yes, colleague of the Box, I said when you want to make human changes, and those people who are currently acting in your duties have no valid reason to replace them, which means that the results aren't bad, then you're going to reorganize. Because when you start a new body, then it's a logical thing to do, so you can call a contest to name who will. 'Cause look, here you don't have any solid frameworks other than education, education. You don't have a solid frame, and it's a work experience. The key to inspection is work experience. So people who have no working experience in the profession don't have to be inspectors. After that, they have to pass the education. Because look, the record needs to be done in the conclusion that something is not done under the law, you have to call on the article and say on the basis of the article of it, sometimes you can count 10, 15, that's the one who broke it, not the one who made the mistake. So these people have to have a special education and let's not fool ourselves. That's why it bothers me when there's a debate in this House today about these people and there's mud on these people. It's not even pleasant to work with these people at all. So, sometimes these people find millions of dollars without speaking to mining inspectors. You well know the gravel and similar things that happened in Croatia and what happened to the head of Zagreb County's economy in '98. the years when we... So she turned a few times. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore not a pleasant job, and it is not good for us as people’s representatives to discuss it that way. We should rely on them to do their job fairly, and if we're discussing it like this, we're not relying on them. Well, whether or not it's going to be organized anyway. So I want to see my debate that way, not as HDZ or as a SDP. So these people in us need to see the support that will give them the support to do their job fairly and nobody puts pressure on them. Because I'm saying, establishing someone 10 million and more of a commitment to the state isn't exactly an easy job.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66631	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. Final proposal of the Inspectives Act in the Economy, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 580. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers – Party of Work. I'd like Deputy Minister Allen Leveric to make a statement on the amendments. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66633	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66634	There's no proposer, so we'll vote. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66635	The amendment is not accepted because the regulation of the notification obligation in all cases would oppose the nature of the individual supervision.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66636	We have to vote. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66637	The amendment is not accepted because the provision of Article 24(3) of the prescribed obligation of the inspector to establish, by the minutes, a suspension which implies and to specify the circumstances for which the business of the supervised facility should be suspended temporarily.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66638	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66639	The amendment shall not be accepted because the provision of Article 28(1) gives the possibility to initiate the procedure at the request of the party, provided that it is prescribed by a special law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66640	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 5 to Article 31
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66641	The amendment is not accepted. The General Administrative Procedure Act does not provide for the duration of the investigation or direct resolution procedure but the time limits for the applicant to be notified are laid down.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66642	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. and Amendment 6 to Article 32.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66643	The amendment is not accepted because the matter is governed by the General Administrative Procedure Act and therefore there is no need to burden this law with this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66644	Thank you very much. The debate on the proposal is closed. I'm putting it to the vote... Yeah, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's get to the bottom of the amendment No. Six that the government doesn't accept. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. And now we're going to make a statement about the final bill. Who's in? And this law requires 76 votes. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that with 76 votes for law No. 580. Now we're going to bring together a debate on the bill's proposals at agendas 24 to 33. Let me just read the law numbers so I don't read the whole text. So the laws under P.Z. No. 578, 581, 585, 587, 577, 574, 586, 590, 579 and 599. 24. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS OF THE RUDING LAW, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 578; 25. Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Research and Exploatation of carbon dioxide, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 581; 26. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE STRATEGY SERVES LAW, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 585; 27. Proposal for a Law amending the Energy Law, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 587; 28. Proposal for a Law amending the electricity market law, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 577; 29. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS OF THE BioGORIES FOR TRANSPORT, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 574; 30. Proposal for a Law amending the laws on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 586; 31. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE GENERAL SURVEILLANCE OF PRODUCTION, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 590; 32. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS OF THE IMPLEMENTATION LAW, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 579; 33. Proposal for a Law amending the laws on the market in heat energy, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 599; The Proposer of these laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings, the amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Economy Minister Mr. Allen Leveric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66646	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I won't, see, it's the same introduction as the proposal for a law on inspections in the economy. So, according to the transformation of the State Inspectorate, etc. What is important, given the supervisory tasks of the administrative area of each of these laws, is defined by the jurisdiction of each individual law in order to be able to carry out the tasks of the State Inspectorate. I mean, that's short.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66647	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleagues Ivan Shuker and Davorin Mlakar will speak. Who wants to go first? Here's your colleague, Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66648	Dear vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. What do you say we don't repeat everything we said yesterday? So all these laws and the ones we've just done are those we're going to talk about that you didn't want to read or read about, but you've numbered them because of the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the establishment of ministries and the detour of the ministry and other central bodies of the state administration. The only problem is that this job is very creamy. In fact, the Law on Amendments and Supplements entered into force on 1 January of this year, but the Proposer did not have time or enough attention to suggest, in a timely manner, these 20 laws that we are now discussing too late in an emergency procedure, and now there is really no need for urgency in view of what you should have seen and bring all these laws by 1st January. So the only explanation for this was almost all the laws, so there wasn't much creativity. The interpretation of the emergency procedure is in order to prevent legal gaps, and this is particularly the reason for the emergency procedure. Since we've missed the time, that we're late with those 20 and some laws, then you've already got a legal gap. Someone is guilty of this legal void, but it could be called a legal void at all. This is not a legal void. This is simply an unturned law. Then it suffers from anomalies that need to be matched by the adoption of these massive changes. This is not the basic meaning of the legal gaps that exist in the regulations, and if they were legal gaps it would not be a reason for these laws to be passed by an emergency procedure. Why do I insist on passing laws by emergency procedure? because I am deeply convinced, and I am probably not the only one that is actually insulting the role of Parliament, that we are insulting the role of all of us who want to work in Parliament, discuss the laws, no matter how much someone likes to give our opinion and say what we think about these laws. I'd like to talk about these laws since yesterday I spoke in a different way, today. These laws also concern concrete human destiny. We're talking about civil servants here and that and those with special powers and responsibilities, but we're talking about them as balvanies. We're coming up here and there's going to be 40 of them, these are going to take over 5 of the inspectors, these are going to take over 7. It is said that this State Inspectorate would have been concluded by a missed institution without analysis of what they were doing, how much supervision they had done, how many measures they had given under inspection, how many fines they had charged, how many in a specific case they had closed if you wanted crafts, trade, catering facilities, and certainly not only did they concern small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, but probably their measures affected the work of those large entrepreneurs. That's not a word of it. But I must warn you colleagues and colleagues from the position in article 12 of the law that has caused all these laws to change, there are provisions on other officials, not only about inspectors. So she says, "On the day of the entry into force of this law of the ministry referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, relatively taken over" that is such a common false phrase "and state officials and deputy state inspectors who have been found at the conduct of non-inspective transactions". As the four departments take over one head of accounting, no one answered that, but it would be very interesting to hear what it would look like. It is about living, concrete people for which solutions, and the question of whether they are of quality, whether they are on time and whether they are done in a way that the legislator should make regulations. And I'm saying that because all of these laws, as proposed by the Government, need to come into effect on the day after the publication in the National Journal. Without a vacacio of 8 days, which is normally reserved only for the most important documents of a country, for the declaration of war or for some extremely important documents. You don't even allow eight days for the law to come into effect because of this urgency when you've already missed deadlines now and you're doing it. And to conclude, as another but very important remark, and it will break everyone in Croatia's head. She can't solve the same body in the first and second degree. In its accession to the EU, the Republic of Croatia amended 127 laws which had specific provisions on the procedure that were not in line with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. You are now reintroducing a special procedure in this economic inspection law and only... the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And at the same time, you prescribe that the same ministry will address citizens' rights in the first and second stages. Today it seems irrelevant, tomorrow when such solutions will come to life, when citizens will begin to complain about the same body that has set for them the first measure that inspection will normally be against the interest of this business community, then we will wonder what regulations we have adopted. Given the urgency of the procedure, there is little time and I suggest to the joint debate that in all these laws at least respects the General Administrative Procedure Act and thus shows that it understands the legislation system in the Republic of Croatia, otherwise it will cause very serious damage that will be difficult to repair later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66649	Comrade Ivan Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66650	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President and Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So, let me pick up here where my colleague, the young man, stopped. Therefore, the Government's decision in Article 13 states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, within 30 days of the entry into force of this law, coordinate the internal body regulation of the central authorities of the state administration that amends the structure or part of the circle. Today is January 23rd, today was a cabinet session, and as I recall the regulation on the formation of the ministry that takes over from the state inspectorate was not at the government. If that is the case, and after that, it is necessary to adopt a regulation on how this will all work together because the heads of the central authorities of the state administration who are changing the structure or in part are obliged to comply with the internal work rules in accordance with the provisions of this Act within 15 days of the entry into force of the Regulations referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. So, if these regulations are adopted today and let's say that today, let's say, let's say that the internal structure rule can be brought there by the end of the first week in February. Now I'm asking you what I.D.'s on the ground these 40 days. With the credentials signed by the former Chief State Inspector or Prime Minister and on the ground, they go as state inspectors or by the basis of these laws. So I say yes, and that is unfortunately often that when laws like this are passed it simply has to be brought in a package. Because with this decision to abolish the State Inspectorate, these 30 laws were passed, then everything with January 1st would practically be over. And what Mlakar's colleague was saying was that the state inspectorate had his own joint services both in the central office and in his offices. What's going to happen to these people? How are you going to deploy those people from the joint service? 'Cause look at the same kind of joint jobs in the ministry they're gonna have to do somebody else. It's not a pay account, the salary bill is ultimately the least of the problems, but a number of other things. And that's just saying about it, we're saying the State Inspectorate didn't do a good job. We are now decapitated and we expect that, at a moment of practical importance, what is very important to us is when the strongest activities are which are the 4th and 5th months, but for Easter when the tourist season is starting to work and we expect them to work. Practically very difficult. But since these laws are measures to reduce the deficits of the Republic of Croatia, the government really needs to be congratulated because it is likely for some thousand and two kunas to reduce this deficit this year, which will be around 21.22 billion. And this will certainly impress Eurostat leaders, the leaders of the European Commission in particular those in charge of the budget. Because look, we've changed the ones that should in some way introduce order and decapitate them in order to potentially burn a thousand kunas into the state budget. Great. But I repeat, the background of this whole story is exclusively the shift of the leaders and this is the ideal way to do it. In any of these laws, you still don't have the resources needed, it says everywhere that no new funds are needed. It's simply not true because you didn't have these funds in the Ministry of Economy last year, you didn't have them. This year you must secure new funds at the position of the Ministry of Economy. The second thing is that you are in addition, you should note that these funds will be taken from the position of the former state inspectorate because these positions have practically been gone since 1.1. But these laws require new funding because these people will get paid, these people will have some other material costs and you'll simply in that part of it I don't know what you'll call that part in the Ministry of Economy you'll have to secure those funds. And you, in each of these laws, had to write how much money was needed. However, if you stick to what, I hope that such a law, such provisions in the Fiscal Responsibility Act, will then have to be practically done this year, because when you adopt each law, you have to make it a fiscal effect, no matter how much it costs or how much it will bring into the state budget with its measures, or how much the application of that law will cost the state budget. You don't have it here, unfortunately. And that is why this law has nothing to do with reforms or it can be called any reform. Because you can't call something to implement the reform if you don't have the objectives of this reform, if you don't know what you want to do with it except for some flat-rate political evaluations and evaluations. Because I repeat, the reason for all these changes in all these 30 laws is the government's fiscal projections of 26.9 and nothing else. And you didn't even have the courage to write that the State Inspectorate was ineffective. Because if you wrote that the State Inspectorate was ineffective, then you had to argue with some data. And I don't want to say that every service can't be more efficient than it was because it's just never done as well as it can be done. But I repeat, and I will end with this, the HDZ Club can't support this, and come on, the Ministry of Economy at least didn't give its freedom as the Ministry of Agriculture to write that this law will come into force on 1 January 2014 but you wrote the day after the publication in the "National Journal" so the SDP club doesn't have to stamp or club of the HNS, since you are the Ministry belonging to the HNS, it doesn't have to stamp on the quick amendments to correct it. So, because of all this together and because of this circus that's happening with the HDZ State Inspectorate, he's protesting sharply and we're not going to support these proposals for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66651	Now we'll hear the replicas, but to the presentation of fellow Mlakar. Branko Box, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66652	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My fellow Mlakar, you've begun your presentation that your work has been done in a crazed manner. One of these eight laws is the amendment of the Mining Act. It seems that in April last year, so in 2013, we passed a new law, an unchanged Mining Act, and it has 175 articles. Of these 175 articles in these amendments, 32 articles are related to the title State Inspectorate so far, and the future mining inspector. So this very fact that every fifth practical article is related to an inspection or inspectorate speaks for itself enough. Let's take an example of the use of stone. So it's a mineral wealth owned by the Republic of Croatia. I ask the question to all of us in what way, or how effective it will be to control the exploitation of stone if permits are issued in the same house and complete exploitation of stone is controlled.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66653	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66654	Comrade Box, I'm glad you mentioned that very inspection because it was quite burdened with controls, especially because it was very difficult to determine the quantities of exploited raw materials. This is more relevant to the fact that the independent body to be involved in inspection tasks, if it has been suspected of its expertise or political or any other, addiction or independence, may have been able to regulate measures in the State Inspectorate itself. So I also understood the government's strategy that talks about the transformation of the State Inspectorate that is being translated anyway, but not as the abolition and shutdown of an institution. But I'm afraid, because ruling it doesn't want to hear that the problem is actually in something else, in order to say so, I don't say rougher, and that every minister will be the one who decides in every concrete procedure. So, according to complaints from all those who will touch their inspectors, the ministry will decide and that will close the whole circle and the whole story. Not to mention the possible financial effects. I specifically insisted on it, but the ruling can't hear. By joining the European Union, we also had to address this issue which the authorities are responsible for resolving by appeal. Now we're going back 40 or 50 years, and we're leaving all the government in the ministries again, so let them cut and judge us as they please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66655	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66656	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Mlakar, I want tonight no matter what we really say to each other here, but say that too, you spoke of inspectors as people who really have to be professional and their work is hard. What I'm worried about, and from your same part of exposure as Mr. Shucker, that's what it's all about. This is an honor, Deputy Minister of Economy to remain silent. Yesterday night, a little later, about half past nine, and the Minister of Agriculture said like this, first he looked back at '92. One year and he looked back at the former minister to finally accuse this Croatian Parliament because they sent those laws from the government, so we couldn't do it, and finally those who cross from the State Inspectorate are going to get control now in a way that will get GPS trackers and then, as he said, I'll take out the phonograms, once again Jakovina will know where they are and where they're going. It's very ugly, it's kind of awful in that way even talking about that law. Is that true and what it is I don't know now? At least you're quiet, Deputy, and that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66657	Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66658	Comrade twilight, I will not fully agree with you, which is why I've replicated. You were just talking about something else, you were talking about a culture of conduct and you were talking about what we're talking about, but nobody hears us, the arrogance of this government that allows itself to teach the Croatian Parliament, all the MPs and impose their political will and theirs as she sees the truth all over this Parliament. She managed to do so by her majority in parliament, so we, apart from losing time to discuss with them, remained in a subordinate position in each of the debates, and then you can't answer Minister Jakovina, as I did the other day to President Milanovic, who also accused me of not reading the Constitution and surprised at the fact that HDZ opposes the establishment of the parliamentary commission, and the poor don't know because he didn't seem to have read not only the Constitution but also certain laws, that the Council should not set up such a commission under the law while the processes continue. But this is already a question that the Croatian public, unfortunately, does not usually have a chance to see. And it's commendable that the deputy minister at least doesn't replicate it that way, and I'm afraid the minister you were talking about is as public as you know it. The results of his work, I'm afraid, will only be seen in the years to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66659	And what am I supposed to say about this answer? ... What am I supposed to say now to this answer of yours if it doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure? [[You can't hear me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66660	Excuse me, Madam Vice President, you shouldn't say anything because I've replicated my colleague twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66661	Yeah, but you didn't replicate, she wasn't talking about the commission or the Constitution. And colleague Lidija Bagaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66662	Thank you. So here's my colleague, Mlakar, in his presentation, said that it was going to join the transformation of the inspectorate of ama without any analysis, and that we don't know if one person is the director who is going, whether it's being divided in half, which is not true. I agree with you that it could have been in the context of this law, it's true but it's not true that no analysis has been made. Because I'm right here in front of me I have exactly how many procedures are unfinished by the regional units, so we have in the seat of the second-degree 39, first-degree 177, inadmissible 1052, Osijek first-degree 324, non-adjusted 2902 that doesn't add up to all the district units. A total of 39 second-degree, 5167 first-degree, non-administrative 31435. So you can't say there's no analysis done. So this is just one detail. It is also known that in particular here is the Ministry of Economy going 140 inspectors, the number of officials is 16 which is a total of 156 people. It could have stood to reason precisely, specifically, but not to leave the claim that no analysis was made.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66663	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66664	Excuse me, can I replicate now?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66665	I just said that you often warn against speaking in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You responded to the replica of a colleague of the twilight who spoke neither of the investigation committee, nor of the Parliament, nor of anything else. I'm so much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66666	My colleagues, if I have to be limited to two sentences. Here, I'll try. [[Here you go, like I didn't say anything.]] Maybe you didn't understand me very well. I said the State Inspectorate is an institution that exists somewhere in a rough way I'll say 15 years. The analysis of how many checks were made, how many solutions were issued, fines were charged, criminal charges were issued, and we didn't see it anywhere. If you have such an analysis, thank God. We haven't seen her, nor have we received a proposal from these laws based on such an analysis. That's what I was talking about. And that the State Inspectorate was doing that we're aware of if you'd like the information we received in public. I even stood up for us to see the real reasons. I'm not even in favor of having an inspectorate. By the way, I can resort to the idea that all inspections are divided into ministries. Yesterday I don't know if you were listening to me talking about the creation of the inspectorate, the inspectorate didn't want any inspections to have under him or those naturally belong to him or fall under the State Inspectorate. And what you're talking about, irregular objects should know what you're talking about, because irregular objects are not an important part of the work of a state body at all. What is measured is that the subjects are administrative in the first and second degree, and these are the two degrees that you have now combined with this proposal and given the ministry to work. And I don't want to, but if you ever happen to be under the supervision of such a ministry, you'll be the first to complain about when that ministry will bring you the solution you'll complain about, and then they'll solve that complaint for you. That's what I was talking about, but you didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66667	On behalf of SDP representative Lidija Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66668	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here I won't be long because we expected this debate to be united and these previous points and these. So this is really just about technical changes, or adaptations, where of the 10 laws, meaning that we are discussing 2 is about defining jurisdiction over the law enforcement and the powers of inspectors. So this is in the Law amending the Electricity Market Act, amending the Biofuels Act for transport. In the other eight laws, it is simply that the word "state inspectorate" is replaced by the word "competent inspections". Of course the SDP club will support these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66669	I on behalf of the club of Croatian Labourists – Labour parties of my colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66670	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. We are now discussing a package of laws that must be changed to comply with another law, a law relating to the inspectorate and I hope that it is not deliberately silenced, but that it is indeed an oversight of the Deputy Minister that this is the only thing that is changing. And I would like to warn you that, in addition to the Electricity Market Act, the erasure of Article 65(3) is foreseen. This item provides for a specific obligation by the competent social care authority. A specific obligation concerns the necessary planning and provision of funds to pay the electricity supplied to the threatened buyer. It's amazing that it goes through one way or even knowing that that provision goes through such a secret in the package here's a technical adjustment to a bunch of laws. I don't know, somebody mentioned I think the 28 laws that he mentioned, and that among other things we put into this one thing that applies to the social part. The reason for erasing this paragraph is that the competent authority has neither planned nor been able to provide funds for the supply of electricity to the threatened buyer. And now watch what it means, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and this government are not able to enforce a legal provision that they have prescribed for themselves, and in accordance with the directive that we have included in our laws, so we simply say okay, we are not capable and we have no means, we do not know how to secure them, and then we will change the law. Well, it's out of my mind. I don't mean you, Deputy Minister, nothing personal, but the fact is, in my opinion, this is, so I'm afraid I'm not going to use a word that might not be very suitable for this place. The fact that it is an EU directive has been ignored. Under this Directive, Member States are required to ensure that vulnerable energy customers are privileged in the social security system in order to ensure the necessary supply of sensitive electricity customers. We installed this directive in the Energy Act in November 2012. The government's deadline for the adoption of a regulation defining energy poverty was 6 months from the date of entry into force. More specifically, that deadline expired on May 8th last year. Yesterday at a committee meeting, I am sorry there are no colleagues here, yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on Economy of the Ministry's Representatives said the working body had already met several times and that a full text of the regulation was expected soon. Several times already and the text of the regulation is expected soon. And their deadline was over half a year ago. It is also devastating that one of the members of the working group gave a statement to the media, so the media can read in the media that the adoption of the regulation, according to the members, is not expected before autumn and is also questionable by the end of the year. Do you need an explanation why? Because it requires certain money that the state had to ensure that the socially endangered would provide a minimum, and the same thing is not only when it comes to this law there is more to it. I don't know if it should remind anyone that winter has begun long ago, and now we've also witnessed meteorologists announcing a more significant refrigeration, so the threatened customers of this government can probably only expect what the prime minister said yesterday, on several occasions, that he will appeal to the suppliers who are expected to take the costs but also to implement the social part of the policy for which this government is obviously neither ready nor capable. I don't know if the government members are aware that according to statistics in Croatia 21% of citizens belong to the category at risk of poverty. That's information for, not for concern but for what a colleague just said about why pessimism all the time, I don't know if this is the reason for optimism? Especially the passing of such a law in this way. The Croatian Labour Club has proposed an amendment to this part of the law and I do not know what to say on behalf of these 21% I appeal to the ministry to do something about it. I know it's not just yours, it's primarily about the other ministry, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, but I don't expect one ministry to make such a decision on its own. This is still something that applies, which should refer to the entire government. The other laws in this package today have been said a lot, and I have to admit that I've gotten the impression that the opposition has taken full opposition that it's taken the same attitude. Each authority shall have the right to prescribe the structure and part of the competence of the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration as it considers it best to be the most efficient. The government, however, often likes to stress that it introduces order in state institutions with its decisions. We've seen that sometimes they need help, so yesterday, let's say, the CRIM police jumped in to help them get a little work done on the board of directors' board of directors. But well, it's all for living people, so they say prison is for living people. When it comes to this package of laws, but also yesterday's, it's my impression that this government has managed to create complete chaos. On 26.11. last year, we discussed in the evening a final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Ministrys and other central bodies of the State Administration. The same law was passed on 29.11. I wrote this down just because it was 29.11. 78 votes were from which it was seen that the opposition was against and the law was against it and the law came into effect 1.1.What my colleague said, when you go with the preparation of such a law that still covered a wider area, then make some analysis and some plan and I don't know here was said with that first law that I mentioned earlier, postpone and apply until 1.1. and now we almost a month later come to the conclusion that we now need 30 laws to adapt to what we did at the 11th month, and what we did all this time, why we didn't do it, no one has any idea. Now, let's ask a rhetorical question, in that inspectorate there are inspectors for whom, whose work dispute is part-time, he has remained, each of these inspectors has remained in a vacuum because the state inspectorate has stopped working with 1.1. This has not yet been established or has not yet crossed. Is it logical to expect that the inspector in charge of employment contracts or employment relations to address his colleague who is in the same position and to say that I have no basis for doing anything because my employment contract is with an employer who no longer exists. It's a deliberately escalated thing to the max but it's about left-handedness, it's about schlemper, someone used that expression today. I think it's an extremely irresponsible and irresponsible approach, but this is something more serious, at least it should be a job. In the end, I just have to add one more comment to what the HDZ colleagues have been saying today with this way of work, and I have to admit that they are my deep conviction, and I don't know I should contact these people and ask them. I think it's fellow Shuker, that it's about living people, and it's not just about sneaking around with them, and don't you have the impression that now these same people have been living through this whole period of fear, where I'm going to be, what's going to happen to me? Don't you think that these same people are no longer independent than they are most susceptible to those who have proved to them that they can be kicked off with their fates as they please? We're people, it's about living people, so I'm deeply convinced that this will certainly leave an end to it. Otherwise, there is no reason to accept what is here humbly, please accept this amendment because it is in the interest of 21% of the people of the Republic of Croatia who are at risk of poverty, but just to accept that amendment, we cannot support this law because we believe that the law is bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66671	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. Final draft law amending the Mining Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 578. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was filed by a representative of Branko Box. I ask Mr. Leveric to plead for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66673	The amendment shall not be accepted because of Article 76(2). The Mining Act is laid down by the obligation of a mining economic operator to grant a concession for the exploitation of mineral raw materials in the field of exploitation that it is obliged to the authority responsible for mining and, prior to the conclusion of a concession for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, to forward the appointment of a responsible mining director who fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 149. The Mining Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66674	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. The law requires a majority of 76 votes. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that with 76 votes for law No. 578 in the text as proposed by the Proposer. And now we're going to discuss 34. Proposal for a law amending the law on the efficient use of energy in direct consumption, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 591. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received their reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Economy Minister Mr. Allen Leveric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66932	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the law seek to remove obstacles in the process of implementing public procurement for energy services which existed in relation to the sufficient competence of the Monitoring Centre, the operation of the energy sector of investments, which primarily relate to the necessary capacity to implement the public procurement procedure for energy services, which is available to the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation and to establish a clear and transparent framework for the financing of energy efficiency measures in the construction sector. This also resulted in assumptions for the implementation of the Energy Reconstruction Programme of the Public Sector Building. For the implementation of the procurement procedure for energy services which do not concern construction, contracting authorities may authorise the monitoring, operation of the energy sector of investments or other contracting entities in the sense of public procurement regulations with regard to the cost of the implementation of the public procurement procedure itself. Following all of this, we propose that those laws on amendments to the Law on the effective use of direct consumption and acceptance are adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66933	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We've only got a single hearing reported by my colleague Mirela Holly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66934	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I won't be long since it's already quite late. First, I'm going to look back at something that doesn't appear in the law and should be written in the law. In particular, we should bear in mind that we have recently discussed in this House the second reading of the Construction Act, which in Article 202 of the Treaty, which is the article relating to the termination of the rules, is mentioned amongst others by this Act and the Law on the Effective Use of Energy in Direct Consumption, and in Article 202(2), paragraph 2 shows that the date of entry into force of this Law ceases to apply and the various articles of different laws are now listed, but also Articles 20, 21, 22, 23. And 34. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council establishing a European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union. Law amending and supplementing the Act on the efficient use of energy in direct consumption, "National Journal", No. 55/12. So, if the Construction Act had already abolished a whole series of articles of this law, then, in my opinion, other than what you were just talking about, and it actually concerns the transition of jurisdiction from CEI to the Agency for Legal Traffic and Real Estate Intermediation, to include what is actually prescribed by the Construction Act. That would be logical and that would be normal, and it should be kept in mind that the Construction Act has already entered into force, so I hope that this does not lead to certain problems in application. And the other thing, namely a positive intensity to raise energy efficiency especially in public buildings, buildings used by public authorities, but I am afraid that despite the fact that this job has been transferred from the Energy Investments Centre to the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation, there will be no major improvement in the implementation of the projects themselves, and I would like to mention that CEI has been quite unsuccessful in this work for a number of reasons, and I think the main reason for this failure is that this law actually prescribes that the financing of these projects is carried out by the worker. And here I would remind that the ESCO model in other countries is being implemented in a completely different way, in a way that those who are energy service providers are those who finance these projects, and then they are being returned through return, through the payment of slightly larger accounts, or accounts that would have not been realised by that energy efficiency project. I think it would be good to change the system itself in such a way that the obligation to finance the project is transferred from those who perform the work to those who are service providers because this has proved effective throughout a number of other European countries, so I will also mention the UK, and such projects could also be applied in terms of the fight against energy poverty which was mentioned by a colleague in Labour earlier. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66935	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. Final draft law amending the Law on the efficient use of energy in direct consumption, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 591. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask Mr. Leveric to plead for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66937	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66938	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that, with 76 votes for the adopted draft of Law 591, it is in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted. And we will discuss another 35th final draft law amending and supplementing the law on the gas market, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No.592; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the proposal. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings, the amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received their reports at the session. Introducing the draft law, Deputy Economy Minister Mr. Allen Leveric will explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66940	Thank you very much. The existing legal solution when it comes to the gas supply itself to which a specific gas supplier is determined by the supplier's public service obligation until 31 March 2014, which means that natural gas currently has a obligation to supply public service providers by the end of March. When the gas storage contract with the underground gas storage company expires, it is not sufficient for further gas supply to be provided to the household. So we have a situation where by March 31st, natural gas has this obligation. Given that the necessary preconditions for the full liberalisation of the retail gas market have not yet been met in the Republic of Croatia, certain legal solutions could have a significant impact on the further development of the retail gas market in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in order to ensure the security and reliability of the supply of gas to customers in the category of household, this legal solution opens up the possibility of declaring the strategic part of natural gas production on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the possibility of a wholesaler who is obliged to buy gas from the natural gas producer and to hand it over to suppliers in public service at regulated price, exclusively for customers in the category of household and gas supplies of those energy operators, legal and natural persons who supply heat from gas to households in accordance with the law governing heat energy is appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Taking into account all the necessary preconditions for the complete liberalisation of the gas market, i.e. the deregulation of the final gas price for households such as the establishment of a system for the protection of endangered customers, the appropriate level of development of the wholesale market, the achievement of technical preconditions for the efficient change of the gas supplier at household level, the availability of natural gas produced in the Republic of Croatia to participants on the gas market under the same conditions of economic growth and other, which are still not met in the Republic of Croatia, the possibility of introducing a transitional period during which the wholesale end-priced gas component for households would remain regulated. It also currently holds 56 energy entities, 35 of which are mandatory public services, in accordance with the Gas Market Act, in the register of the Head of the Rotten-led Balance Groups, 12 of which 8 actively participate in the gas market. Of the leaders of the balance sheet group, the largest market share currently has natural gas, which in 2011, was 100%, in 2012, 93.3%, while in 2013, it was 82%. By 31 March, natural gas was designated as supplyer for public service obligations to energy providers at the annual level and due to that date, the sole user of the gas storage system. The Government's decision on the price for the supply, and according to the Gas Market Act, is valid until 31 March 2014 and amounts to €0,23756 per kilowatt hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66941	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the Croatian Labour-Stranke Labour Club, a colleague named Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66942	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. I'm going to repeat that intro part of the past law, and it's all about the same again. Article 65(3), again, does not foresee who would assume the obligation to pay gas costs to vulnerable customers. Now, I'm going to be a little naughty, so I'm going to say that it probably means that the supplier will be the one who takes the cardite role, so he's going to play some charity institution and bear those costs and take over the social part of the government's policy as we know it's not true. But I will remind you of the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to define the so-called Energy poverty and that deadline was until 8 May last year and I repeat this story again will be several times the working body met and will be soon and then you hear a member of the working body who says it will not be until autumn, and most likely not until the end of the year. I must stress that in such procedures, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also being exposed to possible sanctions as it is a violation of the EU directive. So I hope that the representatives of the government will consider that at the end of this money that we could give and which we are obliged to give to these threatened customers, or suppliers, we will not have to invest in a common casino in Brussels. The amendment and this is what we have proposed and I appeal for it to be accepted because this is really a minimum of minimum, and we end up defining ourselves, and this country is even by the Constitution of the social state, I just don't see with such provisions as to what it proves in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66943	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66944	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In front of a large audience, we are discussing a law that the deputy minister quite so benevolently explained and explained. However, this law at least from what the first Deputy Prime Minister said in his interview the other day could have positive and negative effects on the standard of Croatian citizens in 2014. Because we often like to play with political bickering, and this natural gas is nothing more to you than that famous gas business in the INA and MOL agreements, it's that natural gas. This gas warehouse is nothing but the famous gas storage area around which gas storage is exhausted to say so from the northern Adriatic and the Croatian part that remains in Croatia on the basis of the built master's pipeline during the incompetent HDZ government as fellows like to say often, but look at that gas store is now in the gas warehouse around and now when these cold winter days come this gas warehouse around it is cracked up to the gas plank a lot, and while, let's say, the gas warehouse around it was cracked with Russian gas because this gas from Italy was actually ending somewhere from the northern Adriatic via the gas pipeline in Italy and Slovenia ended somewhere else. Why am I saying all this and being a little ironic and funny? For reasons only to say that 2011 natural gas was a 100% supplier, and 2012. 95%, and 2013. 82% not to tell the real truth I don't think it's good. It is not good that those to whom this law applies must know the true truth. So with the construction of this pipeline from Fažana to Zagreb, and now I think it has come to Dupolje if I do not cheat on Split and what is far more important interconnection to Lower Miholjc and the Hungarian border, so Croatia has obtained with this interconnection one supply direction of gas and has created a precondition for the liberalisation of gas business in the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, I didn't like it when the HDZ government was using the expression gas business, is that simply not true. It's no gas business, it's a trading company that deals with gas trade and nothing else. So they bought gas from our oil pines in the north of the Adriatic and gas that they bought from the Russians or sold to Croatian citizens. It is therefore no gas business but a trade that has nothing in its possession except having some kind of contract with the Russians and trading and selling gas. But why am I saying that? Well, since 1.4.2014, they're practically losing some kind of commitment and losing the monopoly. And now a real question is being asked, what will the government do or what will the government do if they simply say we will no longer deal with it? I think we're talking like this. So I think that, on behalf of the representative, it was a little bit more to clarify this law and I say there are numbers, so the deputy minister only read what it says here for the simple reason that the practical question is whether at this point the price of gas for which frankly speaking few Croatian citizens at this point know what its real price is for gas. Because all of us who are heating up on gas and we have family homes or citizens who live in... The buildings, the collective housing, and they have those water heater vans, remained a little surprised with the bills they got now at 12 months and 1 month. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because look illogically when you don't have one day below zero and the gas bill is because you don't pay the cube anymore, but you pay some kilowatts, calories, calories, and you want to get far bigger. And now people are just wondering what's going on here. And nobody did, so the market is liberalized, but the question is of these 56 or how many units you've already said, I apologize if I've made a mistake, how many of them are in a lot of trouble. And why what is crucial in Croatia is gasification. What is worth to us is the highway pipeline made by Plinacro to Dupolje when those who should and under the law can no longer do so by units of local self-government but by concessionaries or gas suppliers did not develop a network across all these cities both in the continental part and in the part of Croatia. And if I don't say when you look at the continental part of Croatia, when you ignore this northern part of Zagreb and the surroundings of Zagreb, then you'll see that few practically cities and I'm not talking about it, here I'm going to say the example of Velika Gorica, I'm going to say that HEP is not all the heat that is contaminants, there are 6 or 7 in Velika Gorica and we can talk about Zagreb, they're still using the most oiled fuel, and that's a lubricated, let's say without using gas. So a series of questions that simply through these kind of technical changes to the law need to be opened for reasons that I may not have read well, I may not know how to read but I have not seen in principle what opportunities are being opened. Because with natural gas, you have a Zagreb gas station that once produced gas itself and then when it stopped producing gas practically buys natural gas gas, then sells it to the citizens of Zagreb and the surrounding area because I think all the cities of Zagreb County, not all of them, but several of them are practically gas suppliers to them. And so, when we solve this part, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who can still pay for God or they will be able to pay for gas and their heating, then we come to what is problematic and what is really the problem of all of us and that is what they are. The endangered customers or our fellow citizens who live on, unfortunately living, some of life's things have thrown them on the sidelines of society. In welfare centres, sometimes these people where they don't have gas were given a year whether up to four or a few meters of wood, it's so-called. The heat and now it's practically gone. Also, these families were helped to pay for gas because they had no way to pay for it, since they did not use wood. However, from this bill of law, I may have said wrongly, I apologize if I did, the Ministry of Labour and Social Care, actually the Ministry of Social Care, I apologize, there is no longer this position with me. At least that's how it's written here, I'm sorry if I see it wrong. But like this, he says, just a moment, to find, say, competent, further... The law proposes to delete the provision which imposed the obligation in the body responsible for social care to plan and provide funds for the payment of the supplied gas to vulnerable customers, i.e. to pay gas to the supplier in the context of a public service where the threatened buyer does not pay such gas supplier. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we have this law again through some technical changes, and as counterpart Novak said about the electricity market, we have more stuff like that, we're pushing things that are very dangerous. My colleagues from... , we will raise our hand against this law, I can say tomorrow I have raised my hand against, however, to my fellow citizens who will not have money to pay this gas to them it will mean nothing to them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm asking my colleagues from the ruling coalition are you really going to raise your hand for, in fact, to support a law that says in itself that is proposing to delete a provision that defined the obligation of the body responsible for social care to plan to secure payment funds... The gas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That means you, dear fellow citizens, who I say unfortunately have found yourself for this or that reason on the sidelines of society, here we are now telling me by the Gas Trade Act that the Ministry of Social Care is not obliged to provide funds for that gas. So it's the same in this law. I don't know, I'm saying, I'm reading from the explanation of your law, and I wouldn't want to misread something, so I also quoted to say, because this is a very sensitive thing, and I don't want anyone to say that I'm politicizing or attacking the Deputy Prime Minister and the ruling coalition that it's not secure in the Ministry of Social Care, it just says here. And I'm really interested in this big pomp and ultimately the legal processes around this natural gas, although my conscience is clear because I was from the first day against the fact that the Croatian state is buying it, I'm curious about what's going to happen on the market in the Republic of Croatia. Because now that the price of gas is already quite marketable, I already think that INA, so the Croatian government and its strategic partner MOL with the natural gas company are no longer making losses, that this company is already doing business somewhere now when it takes what is the price of gas in the northern Adriatic. I am also interested in whether the gas that is extracted in the northern Adriatic will be available to another supplier in the Republic of Croatia under the same conditions as the price at which the natural gas INA pays. Because INA is at this point with... co-owner of these wells in the northern Adriatic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's not here. Because watch if an INA that is a 100% natural gas owner feels that it will lose one part of the customers who pay safely. Because look, selling any service to Croatian citizens, Croatian households is the easiest money to earn. You have a very high bill, the price that it is. And the logical thing is that, given that the price of gas in Croatia has come to an already quite market level and that you have your own gas sources that are far lower when you take the total price than the price you need to pay for gas from Russia, then the question is how much is an equal match in Croatia tomorrow. Let's say any Croats remember or we'll open a competition, and now it's a question of whether that interconnection towards Hungary is large enough, that someone who's interested in entering the Croatian market, is it because look, we now because of this interconnection and this all together we can buy gas from North Africa because through the Italian pipeline and Slovenia comes to Croatia today. So Croatia is no longer today to say so in terms of gas supply. With the construction of this interconnection and with the construction of this master pipeline from Fažana to Zagreb, we have made no reference to the two key buildings regarding the gas independence of Croatia, let's say that, when he spoke on behalf of the HNS club, he did not say a single word about the two key buildings in terms of gas independence, this highway pipeline from Fažana to Zagreb and this interconnection made from the Hungarian border, from Miholjc to Croatia. Because look at your colleagues and colleagues, if there was no interconnection today, the story of privatizing Petrochemy would be quite different, and Mr. Deputy knows that very well. Because today, if someone buys Petrochemy and on the same side has a connection that they can obtain, I mean a connection under quotes, so in market conditions, whether with financial means or this way they can obtain cheaper gas, and has the conditions to practically lead it to Kutina because with that interaction, it can be a perfectly normal and market business unlike Petrochemy, which has been forced to buy gas in the way that INA has determined. These were the reasons why Petrochemy has been on its knees three or four times over the past 15 years. Not because it was an incompetent policy but simply because the INA that led social policy through the price of energy has led to all this together.... And this law could, moreover, talk about him about the influences of this law and the positive and the negative because you know what it means to liberalize the market where you are, in one way or another, administratively determining the price of gas so far and in conditions where you have this number of unemployed, so when you have, unfortunately, the social map that we are, so you have total liberalisation, and on the other hand you have a provision that the Ministry of Social Care is no longer obliged to provide funds for vulnerable customers, then I think that this law can certainly have a negative social impact on this whole story. And I'm also saying, we can be politically bickering one way or another, but the situation where today's gas cube is, say, somewhere I think it's about 3.70-3.80, right, colleague Leveric... Okay, 2.20 but customers pay it, I didn't feel on my home account that it's 2.20 so I'm talking about the price of how many Croatian citizens pay, and sometimes that gas was 1.50 or something like that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I don't think we should have adopted this law in this way, I don't think we should have gone through an emergency procedure, I think we should have discussed it, I say especially about this part of liberalisation, especially about the government's position on natural gas. I say, it's an INA-owned company that 60% of Croatian needs, so allegedly produced on the northern Adriatic, it gets at the price of what INA policy is, and I can't say that it sells it to its company at a lower price, and those with such a lower price of gas can choke the liberalisation of the market in the Republic of Croatia and we can't ban it. But if the law says that it's practically a gas sale, now it's the problem of the game again, but I'm sorry I don't have... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66945	Thank you. Mirela Holly, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66946	It's a very short replica. Comrade Shuker, you said the government was led by the HDZ to build a master pipeline, a gas pipeline to Dalmatia, and that's absolutely correct. But the question is, how much does this project really need, given the fact that we don't have any big customers there, so we have a pipe that you've just said now that there's not really a very big interest in locals to join, so who are we going to distribute that gas to at all? It's a very expensive project, and I think the smart state that is thinking strategically should have predicted a consumer at the end of that pipe, for example. Some kind of gas thermo power plant in the Sinj area, in the Split area, maybe so we would have power generation from such a gas thermopower plant, we would still have the use of this pipeline for the needs of energy supply to the population, and I think that the story would be far better and better realized that we had a little more thought on how to realise this project. But unfortunately, energy projects in Croatia happen as they happen, so I think you should ask yourself how much you should actually boast about such projects that ultimately do not show very great efficiency.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66947	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66948	Well, look, fellow Holly, I don't agree with you in this part of it. If you want to do something, then you have to create an infrastructure predisposition for it, and if you're working on a pipeline now and you're being sub-dimensional, you can't plan anything on it tomorrow. But if I'm not mistaken, you know it just as well as I do that you kept it quiet, I don't know why. You know very well that gas pipeline was built with the goal of coming from Albania another pipeline, which is with another group. Therefore, you know well that the pipeline was built in some kind of projections of Croatia's true energy independence. That's not the South Stream, but this is the direction and you know it very well. So this gas was done and because of what you said that I completely agree with you because I think that people in Dalmatia where tourism is going to be much easier to accept some kind of production of electricity on gas and so on and so forth. The second thing, let us not forget that Dalmatia once had a strong industry that unfortunately used very dirty energy sources, therefore we have to think about it. Because if we talk about Croatia's economic recovery, I simply have to return certain industrial plants, not in such a way, not in such a dirty way. But if we thought that way about highways, we probably wouldn't have made them. Sometimes when you build, it's cheaper to install, I'm talking to 80 now than to install 40. If someone in 10 or 15 years has to work new... of 40. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because this one... Of the 80th since she was building a company that has such incomes that she can handle it will be bargained tomorrow at a cost. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do with some end-users and what you said among other things. But I think Croatia is far more interesting than this version of the pipeline that would come through Albania, Montenegro practically from the east. And then practically Croatia becomes one of the key gas routes in Europe. Just like this JANAF pipeline would make this gas pipeline. And that's why I'm proud of that pipeline, that's why I'm proud of it, just like I'm proud of the interconnection from the Hungarian border on here because that government no matter how much it spits on it. She managed to do it,... [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] And that's why today Petrochemy is worth something, because if it wasn't for Petrochemy, it wouldn't be worth anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And otherwise, I agree with what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66949	The closing word of Deputy Minister of Economy Mr. Allen Leveric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66950	Thank you very much. Just for a little while, clean. Here I agree fully with the respected Mr. Shucker about the gas pipelines and the transport system that was built, but that is not the only reason Croatia can, or Petrochemy, obtain gas. It's in the gas market law of last year that we brought here, which is that it can have two suppliers that were installed, until then it wasn't. And there's also infrastructure and it's legally settled. Also, liberalisation here through this law is that a wholesaler can be appointed by the Government in accordance with the provisions and in order to avoid any risk of distribution, the safety of citizens after 1.4. As far as this section is concerned, to delete that article, I did not really see the statement of that person mentioned to me in the previous Electricity Market Act. ... the provisions have been removed, and what I can say about the Regulation on criteria for obtaining a protected buyer, i.e. a regulation that will regulate it is in the making. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Trust me, it'll be brought in much sooner than you are, which is kind of a person from the commission. Because that's exactly what the Ministry of Economy is in charge of. The regulation is usually near the end, it is still with certain scientific institutions in order to avoid poor definition as a threatened buyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66951	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. Tomorrow we will continue the meeting at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the final proposal for a road and road inspection law. Thank you very much and good night! Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on the gas market, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 592. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists. We will first declare the amendment of the Legislative Committee. Mr. Leveric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66953	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66954	Thank you. And now we will move on to the amendments of the Croatian Labour Representatives Club to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66955	The amendment is not accepted because the Energy Act provides that the Government of the Republic of Croatia lays down by a special regulation a criterion for obtaining the status of a protected buyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-23-0.u66956	Who's for an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. And now I am closing the debate and I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? I find that with 75 votes for and one abstention, the law P.Z. is passed. No. 592 along with accepted amendments. This led to the end of the vote. We will continue our colleagues and colleagues at 9.30 p.m. on Tuesday with a report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the European Council meetings held in 2013. Have a nice weekend. Goodbye! Session adjourned at 13.20 p.m.
