ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64213	Well, Mr. President, in agreement with the president of the club Don Grubisic, I would like to request a few minutes off so that you can only refer to the new circumstances for you, Mr. Mirna or Arena, a tripartage from Pula. Damn it, as we all know, Mirna and Arena is what should be their advantage and this is the location of the property by the sea, the greedy management of the damage clearly from one side of the workers and from the other side of the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64214	More Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64215	Mr. President, the HDSB Representatives Club in accordance with Article 248. We ask the Rules of Procedure for a break on today's agenda, because a few days ago after meeting with representatives of the union we asked the Croatian Parliament to postpone the hearing of 3-6 months ago for this law. We're looking for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64216	Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64217	Your Honor, Mr. President. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, I am looking for a break on the agenda point of the Labour Act because we have repeatedly warned and prayed that this should not be put on the agenda until we try to take advantage of the minimum possibility of agreement between the social partners within the Economic and Social Council. We find it inappropriate to ask the Croatian Parliament for arbitration in a dispute for which there are also places prescribed by the Labour Act, the democratic procedure where agreements should be reached and not violently attempted, the breaking of the Labour Act with the reason that it brings prosperity, prosperity and increased labour rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64218	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker:
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64219	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Regardless of your announcement on Friday, we'll discuss this agenda item today if something doesn't change. Last night, we only saw on the websites the final draft agenda, but given that no social dialogue has been reached and given the difficult economic situation in the Republic of Croatia, given the 380 thousand unemployed and given one fundamental question whether such a law on such difficult economic conditions will mean anything to the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia, given the forecasts not only of domestic economic experts but of the EU, we are asking that, with the debate of the law, to delay and that as long as it is possible to try to achieve social dialogue, it is necessary for all participants involved in the economic activities of the Republic of Croatia to work together and, in accordance with one basic objective, to reduce the number of unemployed and to finally reach economic growth. And the other thing, Mr. President, I think it would be, now we're gonna have to start filming when someone has raised the hand of this to look for a break. Please take a break on behalf of the HDZ Club. I also ask that this debate be postponed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64220	Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64221	Thank you very much, sir. I am also looking for a break on behalf of the Club in order to discuss once again the point that is ahead of us, the Labour Act is more than we heard on one Croatian Radio show this morning that a union representative, or a union centre on behalf of the union, said that the trade unions are willing to return to the negotiating table, talk about how if we have no other guarantee that until the second reading of the law, the government will respect all objections and before sending another reading to the Croatian Parliament to change those parts of the law that are disputed on the basis of talks with social partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64222	Honorable representative of Hope Turin. Also, that labour law. Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64223	I'm looking for a break on the subject of Mr. Caine.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64224	Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64225	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Independent Democratic Party Club, we are looking for a break of ten minutes because we too believe that this important topic should be negotiated further. The Croatian Parliament on this issue must not take responsibility without this prior condition and ask that we show ourselves about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64226	Thank you very much. Let's go Igor Dragovan first, no. You won't? Well, I understand you answered. Okay. No, no, he called me. All right, Damir Cain, Salapić HDSSB, Dragutin Lesar Croatian Labourists, Ivan Shuker HDZ, Jadranka Kosor Independent List, Nada Turina HNS, Silvano HSU Hrelja and Milorad Pupovac SDSS. Still to find Cain is for the problem of Mirna Rovinj that yet? HSU, the problem of Mirna. But first we go to the Labour Act? First we'll give the break ten minutes, then we'll take a break for the Labour Act, and then we'll have Caine's views on Mirna. I'm taking a break at 9.40 to 9.50 ten minutes. It's 9:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] We're going back to work. Let's hear the reasons of the HDSSB club and respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64228	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The most honest, honest and realistic intention towards us all, and to you especially the ruling in your coalition, in short. We asked you and officially sent a letter on behalf of the HDSSB Club to postpone the debate for 3 to 6 months on the proposed first reading of the Labour Act, for several reasons. If only in these difficult conditions of life in Croatia you had proposed any letter of amendment to this law, you would have come up with resistance because at a crucial moment for the Republic of Croatia you refused the most important, which is to talk to social partners, but not only with social partners but also with employers, and therefore with the Croatian people. What you have lost and brought us to the Croatian Parliament, that not only should we be against such a way of making changes to this law, but you have led us to the fact that we and the Priors must be against something, which we believe should be discussed. Life in Croatia is getting harder and worse, and the reasons for that are also that your Prime Minister, Mr. Milanovic, is an unreal man and is not saying that the people understand him, and I will remind you of what. At your convention on Saturday, Mr Milanovic said that the past year and days have been an active defence against attacks of intolerance and intolerance in Croatia on domestic grounds. And who are these internal enemies who attack your prime ministers and your government? Are they workers, unemployed? Are these employees who don't get paid in the Republic of Croatia? Are those defenders in Vukovar? Are they doctors? Are they students, or teachers? Are they professors in colleges who take money for what they do with their work, which is, if you forget, you said that we are seeking excellence, and that science and scientists should work for the future of Croatia, primarily Croatian economies. He also told your prime minister that you were satisfied with what you did and that the misunderstandings were just a statistical mistake. Is all this happening in Croatia lately a statistical error? And is it not embarrassing that Prime Minister Milanovic met with only the social partners on the road, and that you, Mr. Minister, had broken up social dialogue and conversation last year at the 11th month, and today we are in February 2014. Is that unrest and uncertainty coming from you, from your prime minister? Among you sitting here, there are wonderful people who think well of Croatia, and we will not be like that to say that all the moves you wanted to make were not meant to be better, but what you forgot, to talk to the people, to people who are hard to live, who are not getting their wages, who are doing bloody work, not only in the state sector, but also in private and who are struggling and struggling for their families, for survival, for paying credit. You brought us to Mr. Milanovic and Mr. Minister for having to talk like this today and we will not let you say that it is populism, that these are low feelings because they are not low feelings. He who has no sense for his people has no sense for himself or for his country. Also, Mrs Vesna Pusic, who is a member of your coalition, said that this is one of the failures, but the most successful government so far in Croatia, and that according to the results you are doing and seen, you can see what you are actually offering to the Croatian people and Croatian citizens. Well, with the best intentions, 384 thousand unemployed, the increasing life and the increasing depression, the pessimism, then it's human and fair in front of your people to say that after two years of your term, you've come across obstacles, that you can't do better. If you want to be honest, say it's hard and you're trying, but not that you're the best, the most successful because you're not. And the most honest thing for Croatia and the Croatian people is to call temporary elections, to give opportunity and opportunity to those who at least know how to talk to their people, and to admit their mistakes and to say that it is difficult, to find ourselves in very difficult times and times, that you should just be honest and honest, have sensitivity and soul for those who suffer in our country today, who are hard to live, who expect you to move. Honestly, most realistically, don't expect us to support what we're doing. Not because we don't want to talk about changes to the law, but because you've led us to believe that our people believe that you're your policy, that the whole politics and the Parliament are a disgrace in which we don't care about the interests of our country and our people. We will not let you do this, in the best of intentions, really, not what you experienced in BiH, but here in Croatia. Go home and let those who wish well for Croatia work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64229	Thank you, Your Honor, but it's not in the agenda, it's in the labour law. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64230	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers. I asked for a break in protesting what the Labour Act is today on the agenda and arguments of opposition, I will not present my personal, but will be used with two quotes. The labour law protects workers' rights that are threatened and can only be changed after long-term negotiations, not force and overnight." It is a statement by the then opposition Milanovic from June 2010. In February 2012, then the ruling Milanovic and the prime minister of this government, on my question of announcing the possibility of amending the Labour Act, I received the following answer: "I ask you that when it comes to the Labour Act here, I have the opportunity to point out once again that this would not manipulate what is important and what is irrelevant. The labour law is a deep social contract. Ten years ago, the government run by the SDP coalition government in which Ivica Racan was prime minister changed the Labour Act and in negotiations with international financial institutions and was criticised by who knows if for a reason. History will determine whether it is a neoliberal law issued by workers. And so it's been ten years and more. Today we see again that in the order of non-liberal politicians, economists, bankers again come demands somewhat undefined to re-change labour law and reduce labour rights." I'm continuing to quote "Look, we didn't announce this in our election program. That's not what we're talking about. If there's anything concrete to quote, let everyone hear it, we're not thinking right now. I'll say something more, we don't want to think about it at all because I stress the Labour Act is a deep social contract, he's not just a letter on paper. There are some provisions that all of you and I will agree that may not be the most rational. That's what the unions think today. But this second, once you start cutting, you'll never stop because in the eyes of a neoliberal entrepreneur the one who looks only at profit and not on social responsibility is the ideal state of which there is no obligation. So when we talk about the Labour Act, if you already point it out here as Nemez, as a great threat, so tell us what we said to change the Labour Act." Prime Minister Milanovic asks me. I didn't know the answer and Plan 21 didn't read it before. And in the meantime, no one answered if the amendments to the Labour Act on the new Labour Act were not part of the programme on which the elections were won, why does it have to do without this social deep social contract today, without agreeing with the social partners to be on the Parliament's agenda? Is it because of these demands of non-oliberal politicians, economists, bankers, as Prime Minister Milanovic said in February, more specifically on 20 February 2012 for this speaker? "In my deep conviction," he said, "it may not be an extended period of application of collective agreements, not a second and a paradoxical one. That is why the Croatian public has split up almost and the referendum has been organised." And says the prime minister at the end "Today's trade unions are taking a rational position". These are the same unions that are accused of not agreeing to any changes in the law these days, of boycotting all negotiations and of pushing their spite without any arguments. And in February 2012, these same trade unions were rational and agreed to a series of concessions and compromises in the negotiations, and what they could not give in and did not justifiably give in. And what's the solution? We must be misunderstandings, demands by neoliberal politicians, economists and bankers. That's not what I said. That's what the Prime Minister said. And there is no other background in this Labour Act, just these demands, these groups have led to such a proposal of the Labour Act. If that's the case, let the ruling majority pass this law alone and assume responsibility. Contra, today's rational unions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64231	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64232	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. One basic question that is being imposed on all is whether the hundreds of thousands of Croats depend on whether the SDP club will say Monday afternoon we want to discuss the Labour Act tomorrow. And that may be the essence of all the problems. And then on the evening, we happen to see on the web pages that we're still going to talk about the Labour Act today. I think it best shows how strong the ruling coalition club thinks and thinks about the Law of Labour. Whether the Labour Act is somewhat more difficult, whether the Labour Act is more meaningful and whether the Labour Law should have been something that should have been a set of reform procedures and moves of this government with one single goal, and I assure you that there is no one in Croatia against reducing unemployment, improving the climate in the Republic of Croatia for investors and ultimately leading to economic growth. You can ask the unions, everyone will say if they're for it, the employers gave for it, the politicians gave for it. And can we get to that if we're not ready to sit at the table, negotiate day and night and get to some kind of consensus that's the only one that can get us out of this crisis? Apparently not. It may be more credible today if the tables indicate a stop to violence against social dialogue because there is obviously no violence against social dialogue in Croatia, and there is no violence in Croatia. And I can't forget, I think it was June 2010 when it was running to sign and give those unions the right to some kind of amendment to the Labour Act. These same people are still at the head of the union today, I don't know if they've changed one or two. At that time, it was said that no one would touch the rights of workers, that no one would change the Law of Labour and a number of other things. Or what changed from the beginning of 2012 when the trade unions agreed to certain cuts to make the budget a little better and that today all of this would come to our collection in 2014. So, colleagues and colleagues, these are all the questions that we ourselves have to ask independently of belonging, the political option, regardless of any kind of worldview or anything else. It's a question of our citizens. Because be assured whoever negotiated and talked to international financial institutions in the past 14, 15 years, they've all got two things on their noses. You have rigid labour legislation and you have to privatize everything. So is that right? Is it far more important at this point in Croatia to create a prerequisite for these 385 thousand people from the stock market at least 120, 130 to move away or is it far more important to shut down some small things, actually install into the Labour Act? Well, being honest with you in these difficult economic moments isn't gonna mean anything and it's not gonna change anything. However, is the country that many accuse of having an unfavourable climate for investors, which is not desirable for investors, whether such protests are needed for Croatia in years when the government announces strong investments and when it announces strong investors on the outside. Will someone come, invest in a country where this conflict is between those who work and those who are supposed to bring in capital? I'm sure he won't. Because today in the capital world you have as much as you want and you can borrow it as much as you want. However, it is only a matter of how much someone will evaluate and evaluate you and how much they will collect on your interest. That's the essential question. Whether the Labour Act is something that reduces the competitiveness of the Croatian economy or whether it is an interest rate of 6, 7 or 8%. I assure you it's an interest rate of 6.7 or 8%. The labour law doesn't matter at all. When you ask people who are on the market today, they'll agree to practically anything just to work, they'll agree to anything. That's what I was saying the other day when I was talking about the Labour Protection Act, so some colleagues disagreed. But those are the facts. People who don't have five kunas to give to their kid for a sandwich this morning will agree to anything. And that clearly says it's not the time for this kind of rape of the Labour Act. It is time for talks and negotiations, it is simply time for those who participate in this whole process and the Government is here and the legislator and employer. Let us not forget that over 400,000 employees depend on the budget, the state budget and the budget of units of local self-government. Therefore, there is the government's largest employer, and there is the government farthest interest in abolishing certain trade union rights, hence labour rights, while at the same time favouring employers. Therefore Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Democratic Community Club is asking to postpone the debate on this Labour Act and simply try to talk and negotiate as much as possible. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64233	Thank you very much. It is the Club of Independent Lists and the HGS and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64234	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We are actually here today in this previous debate whether we are going to open a debate on the Labour Act or not to talk about what is the essence of politics. We often have to stop in politics, think hard. Politics, especially in those who lead a country full of ups and downs, would say more downs and downs than ups. And that's right, it's a framework where politics and politicians move. It's wise to always stop when the problem comes up. It's bad to go through the wall with your head. I think this is one moment, that's the moment we're talking about. Here are representatives of union centres and other unions, dissatisfied workers, dissatisfied citizens. And I actually want to warn you of something that's just as much the fate of politicians. Everything we said, everything we said, whether we were in opposition or in power, and especially our signatures actually follow us forever and bind us. So in 2010, when I signed the Prime Minister's Amendment to the Labour Act only three articles were scheduled to change, only three articles were foreseen to change. The trade unions were against what they were entitled to despite the talks, the petition for the referendum began, as we know more than 700 thousand signatures and the government in that case, at that moment could not, and could because we had a majority as the ruling majority today has a majority and can do anything they want. But of course at that point it would be crazy, it would be a big mistake, I've been talking since 2010, I'm talking about signatures. So then I signed that the Labour Act should be changed, so I think today the Labour Act should be changed but wisely and wisely. And try to get to the deal at any moment. Likewise, Mr. Zoran Milanovic then only the head of the SDP and today the main person in the government can be said in the state because the government has concentrated both power and money, today he who signed that the Labour Act should not be changed, does not want to call all the tables once again. I suggest you do it. I suggest you stop. I suggest that the Prime Minister, why do I mention him? Because he signed that the Labour Act should not be changed. He signed it without a suit and no tie, but I believe it still binds him. Therefore, I suggest that probably the minister, or government today, will not withdraw the law from the procedure and this will continue. But we want to hear assurances that until the second reading, like I said, the government will take all these remarks into account. But the government calls, Prime Minister, Ministers, all representatives of all union centres and, of course, an employers' association, to discuss problems. When you step away from the law and the proposed amendments, or the proposed Labour Act, then you see that the dispute is actually about 3-4 main things. It's impossible that it's impossible to reach some sort of agreement on that. How do you do that? Long-term negotiations. Negotiations of all those who have conducted negotiations or were on negotiating teams know how difficult it is, how much nerve, health, energy is losing, but only wise politicians will always sit and sit down again and always gather because only at the table can what most will accept be agreed on. Finally, I remind you of our talks with the unions right in July 2009 when it was extremely difficult. I can testify, union representatives are very respectful of the arguments, but you have to tell the full truth, the naked truth, the truth to the end and without the rest and in unions to look for allies because it's absolutely safe to think and experience them and enemies and opponents can be devastating to the state. So negotiations are hard work, but they have no alternatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64235	Thank you very much. HNS club and respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64236	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Respected union representatives. Today we have a proposal that, on the agenda, we should discuss the Law on First Reading Work. I think I can state on behalf of the CNS that despite our understanding of the union's position and their commitment to labour rights, at this point raising tensions on this level to which they have been raised in the last few days, not to say weeks, is not reasonable. What we know is that the government, or the competent ministry, has repeatedly called for dialogue, for constructive proposals, but it has also been made clear that blackmail and policy "take or leave" will not be agreed. This law is just a small part of all the laws that we have in this House for the last year and a half, which is part of the government's reform policies. He should help and ensure above all those who do not work today, who cannot achieve their fundamental human right, which is the right to work, to approach that market, to get a job. It is necessary, flexibility on the labour market is necessary. We see in the environment, we see in the European Union, countries facing the same or similar problems have just gone that way. Spain may be one of the last to make the sharpest moves in that direction. In fact, the economic situation also dictates a proposal for this law. However, I also believe that in this first reading, and also in the time between the first reading and the second reading, i.e. the final proposal, we have time to talk, we have time for proposals and I call on the unions to be constructive in this regard, not to work and to not put pressure on because we are aware of the situation in Croatia today of the 380 000 unemployed. And we can't act in a way that protects those who are already protected, and that those who break the door of the Employment Service and write hundreds of applications every week and every month don't give them a chance and we don't open that door, it's just the unscathing of those doors, it's no bargaining for employers. And we at the HNS think that we can talk and that the government can talk about some adjustments within this law with constructive proposals, but that blackmail and chaos can't agree. In fact, we don't have time because we have to create a good investment environment, and creating such an atmosphere doesn't contribute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64237	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDSS club in the Croatian Parliament, respected representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64238	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In the Republic of Croatia, social injustice is growing from day to day and inequality is growing among citizens. The Republic of Croatia is worth the work year after year and the workers are offended. It's not since yesterday and it's not from this government, but it is our reality and it is up to us to stop these trends. If I believed this Labour Act had the strength to stop these trends, I'd vote with both hands and me and the SDSS Representatives' Club. But since we don't have enough arguments, as we said a few weeks ago here, that we believe in that, then we can't support it right now. But we can support the dialogue and we need to support Mr. Minister's dialogue between you and the union. Now it seems that there is more responsibility on your side than on the side of the union. Maybe tomorrow it'll be bigger on the side of the union. But the disputed places, and there are several in this bill and in the agencies, and in the possibility of employers to treat workers both during the working day and working hours, demand a conversation. And the Croatian Parliament cannot be the one against the talks. My conscience as an agent, as the man I've been in this business for a long time and my conviction as a socialist requires me to invite you to provide that conversation. Whoever doesn't want him will be irresponsible. We know there's no easy solution. We know that there are stronger ones than us who ask us to play by their rules. Every average citizen of this country knows that. We know that we've come now with our pants on the stick and that others are managing us as much as we're talking about us deciding our fate as we often talk about all these years, our colleagues on the right, but none of that. We play by the rules of the IMF, we play by the rules of the World Bank. But it's our job to try to minimize the damage to those rules. Because domestic employers, if you open them up a little bit or give them a little finger, they'll eat their whole hand, and the government, and especially this Parliament, has an obligation not to let that happen because it's been happening all these years. And for this reason we call for dialogue, for this reason we believe that the Parliament must not be the one to allow this to happen regardless of the bad confidence that citizens have towards the Parliament, but it must not allow it. And for you, Mr. Minister, and for the government we support. But in this matter, too sensitive and too important, we cannot allow it to end without dialogue, neither the IMF nor the World Bank can be a greater sacred letter than the rights of people and the right to work in our country. He can't! If we let that happen, then we'll have rules. It's often said, so Germany did. Well, we can't compare to Germany. What is the state of capital in Germany, what is the state of capital in Croatia. How much capital in Germany is active and how much capital in Croatia is active? By reducing workers' rights and flexibility, we will not activate capital, and it would have to withdraw economic processes, and it does not. For this reason, Mr. Minister, we do not doubt your intentions, we do not doubt the government's intentions to try to get the country out of the state it is in. But further increasing social injustice, further increasing and reducing labour prices and reducing workers' rights, I don't think we're going to do that. It hasn't been achieved in the last 10 years or in the last 15 years, and it's been happening all the time, so it's not going to happen today either. For this reason, let us keep the minimum political stability we need and ensure this dialogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u64239	Thank you very much. Now, because of the Croatian public and all those who asked for a break in order to discuss the Labour Act, I must say the following. So, only the procedural stuff, not the essential thing. The labour law has been in the procedure of the Croatian Parliament for 4 weeks. 3 weeks was included in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, plenary session. We postponed the debate at the union's request so that we could conduct further talks, agreements and persuasions with representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament in the meantime. Afterwards, on Friday, February 22nd, we announced a debate today on the Labour Law. And according to this first reading of the Labour Act in the Croatian Parliament is certainly the best public debate on the law of each and every one, including the Labour Act. And finally, no less important in order to do so, and I welcome the representatives of the union at the gallery of the Croatian Parliament. This is a public space. Here, social interests are brawned and determined, and it is good to have a debate in the Croatian Parliament. This is the first reading and everything is still open. Now we will cross according to the established agenda, the announced point, that is - Proposal for a Labour Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 606 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 183 to 188. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership. Reports from these working bodies, boards of the Croatian Parliament were received at the session. Does the proposing representative, this is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, want to further explain the bill? Yeah. Dear Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic. Here you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72022	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. You today have a law that represents clear rules of conduct, both employers and workers and their representatives in working industrial relations. We spent the talks with the unions over 100 hours, we had thousands of pages of text and what we talked about, we discussed changes in Croatian legislation, changes in the Croatian Labour Act. And in all these changes we wanted to go through the law together and in the law then see what and how the law should be changed. With this law, we prescribe minimum standards in the system of working relations that are in line with EU standards and prescribe solutions that are on the trail of good practice and large majority of EU members. This law is a turning point as much as we are as a society and as political parties ready for reform and exit from the crisis. This is a turning point that says that as a society, are we ready to build a consensus and are we as a society as regards political parties ready to sit at the table and agree on the necessary changes that Croatia will make from the crisis? We offered the trade unions a social agreement, we offered a social pact, all with the aim of reaching a social agreement on getting out of the crisis together. But that didn't happen, we were rejected immediately at the beginning. I note that we talked since last year, so we've been talking about the Labour Act for almost two years. And what changed between those times when we agreed to amend the Work Act in the first reading and now? I note that the representatives of the union were with us and agreed that amendments to the Labour Act should go in two steps and we respected that. What happened between that first step and step two? We haven't changed, we've talked the same way, and that's what burdens all relationships and what now shows us in some way that some of us weren't willing to take responsibility for the changes and that they kept the fig in their pocket the whole time. The labour law that we are going to discuss today is the product of the time in which the product of relations currently prevailing in the system of industrial relations, but clearly also the product of practice that exists in labour relations and in the labour market. Why the product of time? Gentlemen of the Parliaments currently Croatia, as you yourself know, is relieving huge losses in the budget. The skeletons from the closet drop out Croatia has been counted by the Croatian government as you know they are public. Who created those skeletons? It's not us, it's someone else who's created it, and I'm sorry that there are no others in the Assembly Hall at the moment, which tells us about them how and how they ran the state. Croatia is in an economic and financial crisis and the debate on this law and the adoption of this law will be part of our way out of the crisis and we must bear all our part of our responsibility. The easiest thing to say is I won't do it, I don't want it, and if it doesn't, it won't be the other way around. How ready are we for these changes? We are ready to change, and we want the social partners to be ready for change. It's not the government that came out of the negotiations, it's not the government that cut off the negotiations, it's not the government that stepped on their backs and said it doesn't go on like this anymore. It is the trade unions who have come out of the negotiations because they have ultimatically asked for certain provisions to enter the law without wanting to listen to the talks, that they wanted to listen to arguments on the one hand and try to find a common language, and I certainly believe that we can find a common language. And as you know from the moment the unions came out of the negotiations, we've called hundreds of times for what was public and what was written for us to sit at the table and see how we should resolve the points of opposition. We're like the government ready to talk, we've always been ready. We're not the ones who got out of the negotiations, we're not the ones who broke up the negotiations. You have to wonder why they're interrupting the negotiations. And I take this debate in the House as a public debate and it is a public debate until the moment we raise our hands for the final draft of the Labour Act, and we have said it many times and we will insist and call on it and I hope that the other side will have understanding and come to negotiations and talk about those points that we can and should reach a consensus. Under the circumstances of a high unemployment rate, low employment rates, black work in all its phenomena must be a priority for all of us and for those who are now here in Mark's square and for us in the Parliament and in the Government, keeping the workplace is priorities and keeping us from poverty. We are aware of the fact that the Labour Act will not create jobs on its own but will be part of those reform measures that will boost Croatia's competitiveness, which will change the picture of Croatia as a country with extremely rigid legislation. I note that these amendments to the law don't touch severance, we don't touch cancellation deadlines, which is the most important protection of workers. And with this law, we dynamic the labour market, we allow the labour market to operate, we allow investment to come and finally start investing in Croatia, we finally get a positive business climate. Because the key right of every worker is the right to work and the right to pay. We are the ones who introduced in the Penal Code that failure to pay is a criminal offence, we are the ones who are going to change the work of the State Inspectorate to make it the repressive apparatus and the apparatus that will monitor the work, or that will follow the very application of the law. but everyone in society must be equally responsible for the measures that should enable workers to work and work. This law is a measure that allows this because the right of workers is the right to work, the right to work, the right to pay. This law protects jobs, and that is the guideline that should be on everyone's mind. At the point where the job is lost, that job is very difficult to get back. Keeping jobs is the main mission of this law and amending this law. What are we doing with the law? By law, we simplify some procedures and respect the legality of the labour market. The law shortens and simplifies the collective management process of extra workers with the aim of making it difficult for those employers to do business to be short and clear and that a healthy part of the business is quick to keep up their jobs. The aim of this law is to preserve jobs. Therefore, the collective care process itself is simplified, but what I am not saying is that we are not cutting cancellation deadlines, we are not reducing severances, we are not abolishing protection from the cancellations of protected categories of workers, we are not reducing the powers of the worker representatives both in the process of collectively taking care of excess workers and in the process of individual cancellation of work contracts, we are not reducing workers' rights. However, I need to look back at what countries in the environment have been doing, which is what our competitors in the European market are doing. Reform of labour legislation in these countries such as Spain, Portugal, Slovenia implemented precisely with the aim of firing workers. It wasn't our goal, nor is it foreseen by this Law. Our goal is not to fire workers, our goal is to preserve jobs, our goal is to improve the business climate, our goal is to start investments and finally that number of 380 thousand unemployed begins to fall in the Republic of Croatia. Because we are responsible for them, we are responsible for those who are looking for work at this time in Croatia, want to work, want to work, want to stay in Croatia. I said at the beginning that this law is the product of the time in which it is brought and those relationships that currently rule in the system... relationships. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The conditions of the fall of the union membership must ensure equal operating conditions for all employers, whether or not there is an employer of the union-organised membership. The role of the state is to create conditions for strengthening trade unions and employers' associations in order to strengthen the system of industrial relations, in order to foster collective bargaining and strengthen the partnership between employers and workers' representatives, both with trade unions and with working councils. The working council needs to be further strengthened, the working council needs to be further strengthened because it is a direct participation of workers in the labour system. However, the role of the state and the role of the government is not to favour one interested group in relation to the other and we did not act that way. We didn't trade, we didn't negotiate under the table, there were no night arrivals and deals like in earlier amendments to the Labour Act. The role of the state is not to create such a business environment that will endanger the freedom of union association and freedom of collective bargaining. The requirement to regulate individual rights only by collective agreements is a violation of the freedom of union association and freedom of collective bargaining. With these changes, we allow the business climate in Croatia to be better, to arrange work relations and we do not want to favour either side, nor trade unions, nor employers. We do not want to build industrial relations on bad foundations, but on full respect for fundamental social rights and freedoms which are crucial to the right and freedom to collective bargaining and trade unions. The promoters of these freedoms should be unions but not legally conditioned that trade unions are established by the employer, the freedom of association is guaranteed by the constitution, and that is what unions should work on more. Why is this Law a product of practice that today rules in the system of working relationships? Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the laws are not written by the government, neither by employers nor by workers or by their representatives, the practice has shown that they are good laws written by life. The laws cannot exist in an airspace separated from life, needs, and circumstances in which they are expected to react to the relations of actors. This Law is based on good solutions that already exist in practice today, based on judicial practice, is based on the talks we had in the government again, we negotiate over a year and a half on the Labour Act and no one can tell us that we are not and do not insist on social dialogue. This Law is based on the experience of good relations between workers and employers, among employers who meet all the obligations towards workers as is the vast majority of employers in the country. We do not want to pass a law that sanctions what bad employers do, we want to pass a law that will allow good employers to do even better business and bad employers will be sanctioned and drastically seen from the criminal provisions of this Law. Finally, this Law is based on the good experiences of other Member States of the European Union, in particular in the part of which the working time is regulated. Of course, the government has the greatest responsibility to create better labour market conditions for all participants because that is why we have received citizens' trust in the elections. Yes, we are aware of the fact that there are abuses, we are aware of the fact that the provisions on working time are being violated by certain employers, that workers are being denied for vacations, holidays, breaks, paid overtime. Is that why the law should be changed to place even more restrictions on good employers who do not, and that is the majority of employers in the Republic of Croatia? We must also be aware of the fact that the laws themselves, whatever they may be, cannot prevent abuse, but only the quality of the relations between the industrial relations of the employers and workers and their representatives can do so. And here lies the key responsibility of employers and trade unions for the flexibility of the labour system that is necessary and recognised by Europe. It also does not involve reducing the rights of workers because it is not and must not be. The responsibility of the state is to provide institutions that will help employers comply with regulations that will sanction employers who violate regulations. And it will help workers protect their rights from the court. Our wish is for labour inspectors to be afraid of all those who violate the rights of workers and workers and, as you know, we have increased and expanded the ability to collect data. The labour inspectorate starts working differently, it will also be a preventive and repressive institution. There will be no more going to individual companies, individual companies will be protected, we will sanction all those who hire on black, we will sanction all those who do not pay overtime, we will sanction all those who violate working time because new amendments to labour inspectors are given much greater powers and different ways of determining the situation. In the context of the reforms already mentioned in the working legislation implemented by other countries, the law may not seem revolutionary, but the law is crucial to creating a more favourable climate and everything that needs to be changed in Croatia, and above all the appropriate circumstances in which Croatia is present and the circumstances in which workers in Croatia live today. The law allows for a simpler and more transparent organisation of working time. In doing so, it should be stressed that it is not left on its own initiative to organise working hours as it could be heard in public because the employer will do so only if the organisation of working time is not otherwise determined by another regulation, collective agreement or agreement with the working council. Therefore, everything that unions require is already contained in the law. The redistribution of working hours does not mean that workers will be disbursed, redistribution of working hours allows jobs to be preserved and what needs to be done by the company according to market requirements. We reject all claims that in this way we promote bad practice in the country, so that no work hours are paid, that overtime is not paid, that workers are not given what needs to be made possible, which is a vacation after work is carried out. This law allows good employers to redistribute their working hours, to respond to labour market requirements, and we will sanction bad employers and therefore the labour inspectorate will work differently. A simpler organisation of working hours will not mean excessive work by workers. I note that at this point in Croatia construction and catering workers also work 60 hours a week, 6 months every day and it is arranged by collective agreement. So we allow these changes to be made in a shorter period of four months, not 60 hours, but 56 hours can be redistributed, but that doesn't mean that they will work 56 hours 4 months but will work in one period when it is necessary to carry out the order longer, and then in another period it will work shorter. Every overtime will be paid. It is a clear limit set by law, which means a maximum of 56 hours a week, but compared to the total fund hours in 4 months at a maximum of 48 hours, 40 on a regular basis and 8 overtime. Every hour of workers will have to be recorded, every hour of work above full-time will have to be paid as overtime. It is an incorrect claim that only after 4 months will overtime be established because those who claim it should read the bill well or deliberately lie. The law facilitates employment not part-time, literally by applying the pro war tempora, we enable work with 4 hours, we enable work from home, we enable work for more employers. All of this is aimed at making that number of 385 grand we now have at the office smaller and making it possible for these people to work. We improve the arrangement of work through temporary employment agencies and those who say that the employer's dismissal will be able to replace the employee through the agency, a lie. Because the law makes it clear that if the employer gave a business conditioned notice that a worker could not be employed by the agency. And when we talk about agencies, Croatia is there in the bandages. All 0.3% of the workers work through the agency. Europe is about 4% now. But what Europe's experience shows, it shows that about 20% of agency workers eventually remain permanently employed in a company where they worked through the agency, and that's one way to move from unemployment to employment. It is clear that the application of each institute can lead to abuse, that it can lead to irregularities. The law therefore provides for individual sanctioning and labour inspectorate to pay particular attention to those companies employing workers through agencies. Therefore, we will sanction all those who are trying to hunt in the blur, and on the other hand we want to ensure that workers through agencies have a permanent job, that they have salaries like those workers who are employed in companies where they work through agencies, all with the aim of keeping the worker as safe as possible. The law strengthens the safety of workers, extends the period of limitation for claims from 3 to 5 years, enables a strike for non-payment of salaries immediately after maturity of pay, strengthens the working council, introduces a definition of business secrets that should facilitate the work of union representatives in the work of the employer. We set clear rules for collective bargaining and strike rights. By law, we do not reduce the rights of workers and workers who use maternity and parental rights. It is a lie that when a person who has completed maternity leave has completed maternity leave when he returns to work that he will not have his job. The truth is that the current law loses her job, because under the current law, if the employer cancels that job, and there is no possibility of hiring her elsewhere she automatically loses her job. So, according to current law, women who return from maternity leave under the current law lose jobs. This law prevents it, because workers and workers who return to work after the use of maternity and parental rights, so they can go back to a new workplace and this law guarantees them that. And final. The law is freely relieved, normably relieved, it is easier to read and easier to apply. And what I want to send this way and a message to all workers in Croatia. Workers and workers The Labour Act is a framework of your rights guaranteed by the state. This law guarantees minimum rights and it is clear that these minimum rights can be increased by negotiations with employers. And we will protect those minimum rights in all ways that we are allowed to do. Bad employers will be sanctioned, good employers will, we will allow them to create new jobs. This Law will not open new jobs it is clear to all and it is not aimed at it, but it will preserve existing jobs. This Law will not solve all the problems that exist on the labour market, but will allow you minimum security, will affect the reduction of work on black and will protect workers and workers of your right to work. Every worker and worker in Croatia deserves a job, deserves security and dignity. This law is one of the measures that will allow Croatia to move forward, and the dignity of workers will not be compromised even though we hear different messages from the union. We'll protect workers' rights and that's the role of the state. It's the law that provides minimum standards. The state institutions will be guaranteed by each worker to respect the rights laid down by the Labour Act, but workers and their representatives and clear employers should work together. The Republic of Croatia is now in a situation where joint action by all of us is necessary to ensure conditions for rapid and effective economic recovery. In doing so, progress cannot be expected unless we are all for change. This way again, I call on us to sit at the table between the two readings, solve the problems and start talking about the social pact to get out of the crisis. We suggested this to you a year ago, you didn't accept it. Maybe this is the time to accept it. Changes are necessary, but to understand that fact we do not need any professional analysis but it confirms the number of 375 unemployed thousands at the Employment Office. The number of workers who remain unemployed every day, the number of workers working and not receiving salaries, employers who cannot adapt to the labour market circumstances, which impose competition from other countries. There is no time for analysis but quick and targeted action is needed in all areas as well as in the system of working relations. Any change will be positive if there is a social consensus in it, if we want to achieve that consensus or have other agendas rather than reach consensus. Unfortunately, at this point, we haven't been able to do it, but we are working and we want to continue working on this consensus to succeed. The implementation of the social consensus implies a certain degree of responsibility for the state of affairs, seriousness, consistency and responsibility of all those in the system and trade unions and employers and all those currently acting on a political stage. The reforms carried out by other Member States in this area show that the interests of stakeholders do not have to be as conflicted as in Croatia, because the interest of all parties should be the same, which is to ensure work. The experiences of other countries in our neighbouring Slovenia show that changes in labour legislation can reach consensus if there is understanding and seriousness on all sides, if the parties are respected and if they take responsibility for future generations to come. We, on one side, unfortunately had no understanding. Since we and our social partners agreed on a change of the Labour Act in two phases, we believed that there was an understanding and seriousness of the social partners in Croatia, and that we would succeed in implementing a reform of labour legislation that is always difficult, but at which it confirms how much a society is ready for change. We're ready for change. We think the other side is ready for change, because it's the only way out of the crisis. Here I go. [[The incursion president: Thank you very much.]] Unfortunately, union resistance, change confirms that we have made a mistake in our assessment. I use this opportunity once again to invite trade unions to respond to countless calls from the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, to re-establish social partners' communication because only together can we come up with those solutions that will be most applicable Better Croatia, better tomorrow, we will not achieve the ultimatums and threats than by respecting the second opinion and achieving a common consensus on the necessity of change in order to achieve society, order, work and growth. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72023	Thank you, too. Now we have a set of replicas, so let's go in order. Dear Representative Zeljko Reiner, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72024	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. First of all, it is very clear that it is not true as it says it is about the law required by the EU. That's not true. This is a law passed exclusively by the current government, the law passed in 2009 was fully in line with the EU acquis and such a superficial breach of the Labour Act can, of course, result only in further collapse of labour market relations and will by no means lead to quality and long-term solutions. In a current situation where there is no professionally developed platform for the overall reform of the labour market in which there is unfortunately no agreement at all between social partners, it is irresponsible and ultimately irresponsible to end the Labour Act and it will be afraid to end as another failed experiment of the current government with far-reaching and long-term consequences for workers and for employers and the economy as a whole. Without the maximum consent of social partners in such a difficult economic situation, it is harmful, it calls for social unrest and thus a violation of political stability. What we need to say very clearly is that we are amazed by the fact that and bizarrely, in fact, such a law is proposed by a government led by a party called the Social Democratic and actually implemented in real life by a policy that is directly contrary to the ideas of social democracy, does not respect workers and work and instead works for them continuously against them. As far as duality is concerned, the fact that 2010 was signed against the amendments to the Labour Act, when minimal changes were made and now nothing has changed and this law is changed in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72025	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Nada Turina-Djuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72026	Your Honor, Mr. President, I don't know which article the Rules of Procedure would be invited to, but it's not definitive. So I think it's an injury because I don't understand how Mr. Reiner, who wasn't present at the opening presentation, gave a replica to the opening presentation and talked about a subject he didn't listen to and was present at all. [[How do you know it's an injury then?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72027	Comrade Turin, allow the representative not to be constantly in the hall between reporting replicas and giving replicas. Don't be impatient. A colleague reported it and went out. It's his right. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Replica response, Honored Representative Mirano Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72028	Your Honor, I see there's been a written replica, so it's been prepared before. I didn't say anywhere in my statement that the EU is asking us to do this. So, this requires us the 385 thousand unemployed who are in Croatia at the moment and you can only look at the number we have at the Employment Office and this is our and your and my obligation to reduce that number. The way you discussed it was the way it was written, so if you listened to my discussion, you would say very clearly that a national consensus should be reached, we achieved it with part of the social partners in the first amendments to the Labour Act we had a consensus of all three, both social partners, now unfortunately we did not have any further open to discussions with them. Therefore, you cannot impute a lack of social dialogue, but what is absolutely certain is that Croatia should take steps to get out of the crisis and labour legislation reform is one of these steps. Again, look at the Employment Service and it is your duty and my duty to hire these people in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72029	It was a response to the replica, respected labour minister and pension system of Miranda Mrsic. He is now a replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72030	Thank you very much. Mr. Mrsic, Minister Mrssic, you heard what the unions told you before you started speaking. Almost every sentence of yours actually comes out. In fact, you said that this law stems from the request of 385 thousand unemployed and in your speech you say that the main objective is to preserve existing jobs and that the number of unemployed will not change by this law and will not change and that is correct. Furthermore, the objective of preserving your government's existing jobs is to completely deny 70,000 lost jobs during your two-year term. That's what's denying you, too. Furthermore, you talked about the crime of not paying wages and about 15 thousand workers in the Republic of Croatia in companies whose owner of the state doesn't get paid, so who's going to be in charge, you're going to go to jail for not paying in Lipik's wages to employees? Who's responsible, like for cars, doesn't know who ordered them. Furthermore, the skeletons you're talking about, for two years you've been in power, the HDZ had a 15 billion kuna skeleton of government budget deficits. You have nearly 20 billion, two years in a row, whose skeletons are, who will take those skeletons when your government leaves, then take care of those skeletons. Furthermore, whether your way of dealing with workers is the closure of union leaders, is your way of working, as your colleague Minister Ostojić did, whether your way of doing shift work in health when it's an impossible mission, when it's a mirage organ, when it's perpetum mobile, it's your way of doing it. So the application of force, the application of haughtiness, and the life you're talking about without writing the laws, so you don't actually see that life. You guys are actually...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72031	Thank you, Your Honor. Time's up. Replica response, Labour Minister and Pension System Miranda Mrsic,
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72032	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I hope you haven't slept through my speech. So I made it very clear that the goal is to preserve jobs, that means that this number of 385 thousand jobs is not increasing. And on the other hand, create a business climate that will create new jobs to make that very clear, so that these people who are now at the Employment Service could be hired. And again, I note very clearly, you can look at the scene and see that you need to create a positive climate that will attract investment in Croatia and create jobs. So the law is one part of this creation of a positive climate and when we talk about consensus we talked about for a year and a half, you can't impute me that there's no social dialogue, social dialogue and now there's no, there's no state level, tripartitely, so at the level of the Economic and Social Council, but there's local GSFs, there's also between individual trade unions and government. Therefore, social dialogue exists, now clearly that the social part should be done, but we are not the ones who have interrupted the negotiations and we will never be the ones who will say, but now we will always make an additional effort to reach a consensus and if you have listened well to me, I have called on you to once and for more if necessary, sit down at the table and try to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72033	Dear Representative Josip Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72034	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Mr. Minister, so who told you that yesterday when you had the reception of the Club of Representatives of the SDP invite once more social partners, employers and even all representatives of the Clubs of Representatives and that this debate about this law was not going so smoothly and you were wrong. You've said it a few times today, it's a lie, it's a lie, it's not us, it's them. What does that look like to you? The three of you here today, I sincerely regret it, are not you who should take responsibility for what you received from your Prime Minister, which is that you have to open this in the House today. You are politicians, behind your good intentions, behind these two professional people sitting here with you, standing politics and apparently Mr Milanovic gave you orders to talk about it today and as funny as it is, sometimes it turns out stupid. You said today that some people are reading their lines, and you've done it beautifully, 32 minutes of prepared speech of what you've been reading, while people are out there talking to you and the workers don't understand what you're talking about. First of all, it's absolutely justified to talk about changing the law in the context of some other obligations, but you've forgotten one very important thing, it's about workers, employees who don't get paid, those unemployed who can't get a job, and you've been reading for 32 minutes and saying no one understands you, and you're talking like there's no protesters out there, union representatives, like workers are happy, like there's a state course of honey and milk. I said the most honest thing is to admit that it is difficult, that the crisis is great, that in two years you have failed what you have promised, that someone might understand what you are saying, and you have spoken as if everything is nice and as if Croatia is a European country where unemployment does not grow, but we should look up to Germany. God forbid, by law, but by work we can look up to Germany, but you didn't make it, even in wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72035	Replica response, respected Labour and Pension System Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72036	I'm sorry you didn't listen to my speech, so I didn't say at any point that we were going to look up to Germany, or I was talking about Germany, as you yourself heard. On the other hand, when we talk about consensus, we have also called the trade unions to negotiations and verbally, we have already had meetings with the inspectorate where we called them for a meeting, so we have called and called and we will always call for everything that should be sitting at the table, but unfortunately at this point we have no answers from the other side. And when we're talking about who's lying, who's telling the truth, I just wanted to point out which part of the law is wrongly interpreted, so again I'm mentioning the agency worker, so the employee who's working and getting the job can't be replaced by the agency worker, the one who's coming back from the pregnancy can't get fired, now he can get fired by this law and work time and negotiate with the unions as we've agreed and so far, we want to expand it to places where there's no union organisation because all employers need to have a fair match on the market. I'm sorry you didn't listen to my speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72037	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72038	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you have publicly accused the law critics of lying on purpose three times. I repay you with the same measure and publicly tell you that you deliberately lie when you explain this bill. Secondly, you call for consensus, how? Take it or leave it, you have to accept this proposal and it's in your opinion a consensus. With who? You can't with the unions because they don't want you, they don't accept your arguments, we don't accept us from the opposition, so you don't have a partner for consensus. But I offer you a consensus, go, call a referendum on this law, and it will surely come up with 385 thousand unemployed who offer false hope that easier dismissal will bring about greater employability that has never been proven anywhere in Europe, never, no one has proved it. Furthermore, that 70,000 people who work and do not receive wages, 180 thousand people per minimum, 16.5 kuna per hour, the only guarantee of the state to employees in financial terms and to those you offer to work 16 hours a year for 4 months a year, and most of them, and that will develop, you will see and we will quickly get to those 4, 5 percent of agency employment. They will surely support you in a referendum and accept such a law and then you will have a consensus. You're angry at the opposition, you're angry at the unions, so go get a consensus on those people I told you. You have spoken the greatest truth and confirmed the greatest error, best practice and best law writing life. You don't understand, and you'll never understand. The role of the state is not to accept market laws unnecessarily, but to prevent their mistakes and correct when they come to them. Only an incompetent government accepts all market laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72039	Thank you very much. Replication by the respected Labour and Pension System Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72040	Your Honor, I'm sorry you didn't commend the government that all your 2009 amendments were introduced into this law. If you look at it then you will see that what you have proposed to the amendments in 2009 is in this law. I'm sorry you didn't look back on that in your replica. Therefore, there is also appreciation, so there is a possibility of change. What we said in the law can change things. And when we talk about respecting the market and living clearly that we need to listen to the labour market and the law to adapt the labour market and create jobs and allow those who are unemployed at this point to have 385 thousand of them to get a job and that is our responsibility. It's yours and mine and all of us to do everything we can to hire those 385 thousand people and we don't need any analysis of what we have to do. We simply need to get things started and Croatia needs to get out of the crisis. When we talk about the law, the law makes it very clear what things are allowed that aren't. No one's gonna work 16 hours a day for four months. The law makes it very clear when it can, how much, who needs to give permission. Where there's a union is negotiating with the union. Where he's gone, there's a negotiation with the working council, where our working council is also a deal with the workers. And yet I note that workers should be those who need to correct not only employers but also correct the state, and that means that all those irregularities that are happening can be reported and... sanctioned with their system of labour inspectors.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72041	I'd ask the speakers not to disqualify each other. It is neither nice nor appropriate to contribute to the quality of the debate. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72042	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you said in the opening letter, among other things, that the unions had left the negotiations, the talks and that they had given up the dialogue. I said earlier that I heard one of the distinguished presidents of a union center this morning who said the unions were ready to talk again, so I'm asking you to suggest that the Prime Minister do it, get everything back together at the same table. Namely, the government can do the best things but the government is always at the end of the day responding and remains the only one in the deleted space when we talk about 384 almost 385 thousand unemployed, GDP decline, the fact that there is no growth etc. So it is in your interest to continue this dialogue. You said with the rest that this law would allow you to keep your jobs. We've heard it so far in all the debates we're not sure that's the case. But what is much more important, the law must in some way open a space for opening new jobs because today and in this debate, the 385 thousand unemployed are almost represented. So that must be the goal of every law and every measure in this system. The government has to insist on that. And I would certainly say even at the end since you mentioned some of the last governments and the practice of making arrangements under the table, I was in a long period of time the leader of the negotiating team of the government of the Republic of Croatia, it wasn't under the table and it wasn't in the night because the negotiations were often late in the night, they interrupted it, they were very often painful negotiations, but they lasted late in the night but I wouldn't say that in the night under the table something was being negotiated beyond the state's interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72043	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72044	Thank you very much. Very short. We are unions at the moment when the trade unions came out of the negotiating board of the tripartite group that worked on this law at 4 o'clock which officially, and I no longer know how many times and verbally invited the trade unions to come, to sit at the table, that this is still a public debate, that we can change the law both before and after and between the moment when the bill is final, unfortunately we didn't get an answer. Even in one letter to my written call to the unions came a reluctance from the unions where they didn't want to continue negotiations with us unless the Labour Act was withdrawn from the procedure. So again the ultimatum, so if that's the case then we'll continue negotiations and we've always negotiated in good faith, and that means we'll go sit at the table and see what we can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72045	Dear Representative Branko Hrg, new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72046	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you said in one part that this law is passed among other things because Croatia has to get out of the crisis. And I really don't see any elements of this law that could really guarantee Croatia's extraction from the crisis, or in that part of it, I would very much like to see here today the Minister of Economy, Minister of Defence and Entrepreneurship probably create some of their crisis exit programmes quite different reactions than this debate on the Labour Act. You're saying that you wanted to talk about all the changes, that you tried to make one compromise, one dialogue, and now I'm interested if you say that the law doesn't reduce workers' rights, that this law will make a lot of things better solved, I really don't understand, so I'm asking you for further clarifications, where is the dispute? Then why do those whom this law applies to most of them react so strongly, why are they protesting, why are they so rebelling? I just don't get it. We're obviously passing a law that's against the ones we bring it for. Every law we've passed and citizens rebelling against it is not a good law. We need to find a solution. And what my colleague Kosor said in her presentation if the prime minister doesn't mind talking to the workers and unions, if there's no nerve for it or if he has nerves it would be really okay to sit down with the workers' representatives. and employers and to do something about it.../ [[/Intruder: Thank you very much. Thank you.]] The speaker went off.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72047	The reply to the replica, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic. Well, Your Honor, the dispute is in the interests, so the opposition is very clear in the law in the interests, which means that it should be legal for the employer to change and adjust his working time to have to establish a union. So there's the only fight. Therefore, it is not a challenge for us to change our working hours, to adjust our working hours, but rather to make the opposition interesting, and that means that union organisation in this case would be in the interests of the employer rather than in the interests of the workers. And we don't think it should be, so union organization must be in the interests of workers and workers must be the ones who want to organize themselves interestingly, we don't want to impose it on them by law. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72049	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you've mentioned consensus many times today. And I also think that these amendments to the Labour Act must be made by consensus. When I say they have to, I just encourage us to do it, you can't just give up the negotiations, you can't tell them they wanted to, they didn't want to, so that's how it is. So it encourages you to keep talking at the highest level. It seems to me that this assembly debate has just been some form of pressure on the unions because I see no reason why this agenda item could not be delayed and the talks with the unions continued. So the consensus is needed. If the Slovenians could do it, so can we. If they could carry out a referendum on some forms of work, why couldn't Croatia do so too? It is not just the creation of job needs, it is also necessary to maintain the quality of jobs. Croatia today is the fifth country in the European Union to have poverty with a tendency to move towards the top. So it's not enough just to change the Labour Act, I'd rather have them here, if there was a united discussion of part of the Labour Act, areas that are related to it and to the economy and bankruptcy law, and I don't know tax policy. You can't just go with tax premiums on workers and employers and then put this kind of anxiety in the country when it comes to working relationships. I have read the Labour Act well, I have made one parallel and other legislation of the countries of the European Union, and especially of these countries close to our environment from the European Union, but I will discuss this later. However, what I would like to ask you and now to move on to concrete arguments are the Employment Agency, which has been given extremely high powers under this Act, you have introduced them to a large door and Germany and the Netherlands are giving up these agencies because jobs are very unquality and do not provide work. [[Intruder: Thank you very much for your time, unfortunately.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72050	The reply to the replica, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72051	So, we should not have carried out a referendum on mini jobs, Slovenia carried out a referendum, we said we would not introduce mini jobs in Croatia. When we talk about Slovenia, then you could look at what the Slovenian trade unions agreed with their government because they wanted to reach a consensus. Therefore, in Slovenia, cancellation deadlines, severances, were drastically reduced, made possible by several employers above full-time, were allowed to quit protected categories, so to trade union commissioners. So when a consensus is sought then a consensus can be reached. With us, it is a question of whether a consensus is being reached because there was also a view in the negotiations and talks that the Labour Act will not change and that it does not want to change. That's the attitude to the crisis whether we want the crisis to be resolved or we want to leave the status quo. As far as the agency is concerned, Germany is not giving up on the agencies she's giving up on mini jobs, so those mini jobs and they realize it's not good for them and we're not going to introduce these jobs in Croatia. We control agencies more, we control better. Now that we talk about it, our employers are starting to complain because they hire workers through agencies at the same time is an inspectorate of work in these companies and check how these workers work. So let's control and not kill an institute that allows workers, so 380 thousand unemployed have a chance to get a job.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72052	The Republic will now be presented by the respected Ivan Simunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72053	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, the story of keeping a job is just eye-smoothing to the citizens. If there's no money for a job, it can't be saved, it needs to be shut down. By trying to save jobs for which there is no money, we'll do damage to those jobs for which there are funds. Economic operators on the market must develop and grow so that they do not eat them larger. Stagnation on behalf of preserving jobs means failure. How devastating this policy is today. We've been listening for years about keeping jobs and, by some miracle, we have more than 380 thousand unemployed. This sounds ugly, but it's true, and somebody finally has to say it. We have to stop cheating on ourselves about keeping jobs. To this preservation of jobs, someone might pick up and talk about a pre-departure settlement that allegedly also keeps jobs. The answer to that is, it's not keeping jobs, it's throwing taxpayers' money away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72054	A new replica of the respected Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72055	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, we welcome your repeated call already, I don't know how many times, but that the trade unions approach the dialogue, that is, to give concrete proposals and arguments, but I think it is clear to say that this whole process and the time during which this law was created has been very much giving the opportunity for these concrete proposals and arguments to be incorporated into the bill and to reach consensus. And unfortunately time goes by, unfortunately every day we have that number of unemployed on that dial that goes up and I think that time factor is extremely important and that this law should have been put into practice. It was and is responsible for this government and this policy primarily to preserve jobs, and potentially to create new jobs, no matter what someone said about it, since everyone is telling us, and also those of the prominent and most respected financial institutions such as the IMF, which is to do to Croatia to achieve economic growth. One of the facts that we have not yet done, which we should have had is the flexibility of the labour market and it is certain that the effects on economic growth and on the stability of the economy of the Republic of Croatia will have this law, i.e. the proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72056	A new replica, respected Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72057	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, we are really in an unusual situation and you can see it from your debate. So here the opposition does not want to discuss organic law, the Labour Act in which labour relations are determined in the Republic of Croatia. The trade unions do not want the Croatian Parliament to discuss the Labour Act in first reading, meaning we are participating in a public debate. However, I welcome their memos and their remarks to us as parliamentary deputies and would be expected to discuss here the articles of the law, to justify and contribute to the public debate, better and better quality of the law, and to contribute here to this consensus, which is of course expected in the adoption of this law. And we are in a situation where we are prevented from discussing it, and those who should also discuss the law do not want to discuss it, but hide behind the union. And now unlisted in a certain way, except for a part of the opposition, the uninformed can understand that we, today-to-morrow, will bring the Labour Act to an end this week, and that this story is essentially about what you have called for, and I call on us on behalf of the club, that will be said by a colleague of Hope, that only the dialogue and the unions and employers continue, and that we are discussing today, by not talking about the general topics of the Labour Act rather than the concrete members of the Labour Act to flexibilize the labour market, but in any case and always protecting the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, those unemployed but also those who work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72058	The last replica, the esteemed Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72059	Dear Mr. Minister, you were talking about social dialogue at the beginning of your presentation, and then it seemed to me that there was not enough clear and loud call for unions and others to discuss because social dialogue needed. However, you denied me at the end when you very strongly and loudly called for a conversation and dialogue and really needed to be done. Almost the light motive of your debate ended up in that tone. For dialogue, it takes at least two people to talk, I hope that the other side, if not to a sufficient extent so far, will agree to a conversation, not an ultimatum. It needs to be shown who cares about the Labour Act, work and workers, who cares about it or maybe something else. Well, that's an enigma. We see here that today the leaders of the union left the hall when you started speaking. Okay, but it's symptomatic that their colleagues in HDZ did this with them. If we see any deal, alliance, coordinated action, I don't know, or consensus on that. If we know that HDZ is not up to any agreement, discussion and dialogue on anything in this House with the ruling but only to leave power to get them to power, I hope that the trade unions are not on the same track for HDZ to come to power. So, shout and call on the conversation, the noise is great, it can't be heard, it's too much noise, but still you insist on it, the noises will stop, and the conversation must never stop. So if there's no noise or consent to talk, if nothing will be seen, and that's no small thing, who's to talk, who's to talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72060	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected vice president of the House of Dragica Zgrebec will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72061	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Last week and today, we are discussing a set of laws that regulate labour legislation and these five laws that we are going to be discussing these days are actually going to have to be looked at in one single whole. The conditions for the development of entrepreneurship and the growth of the economy ensure through legislation that enables business stability, entrepreneurial freedom, a loyal match, but also takes other measures to carry out economic activities. The labour and capital ratio is governed by labour legislation defining the rights and obligations that ensure a fair relationship in the association of labour and capital, resulting in a newly created value that has market valorisation. When talking about work, it is necessary to meet three basic criteria. The primary organisation and implementation of the work process, safety and protection of the health of workers and the right to free union organisation of workers. The better labour and capital cooperation, i.e. workers and employers, results are more high quality. Although without both factors to create a newly created value there is no result work is always in a subordinate position against capital, so labour legislation must be to a greater extent in favour of work. In Croatia, we have a low employment rate and high unemployment which is due to a long-term crisis and economic structure based on territorial activities and subject to import. The share of the industrial sector is falling and unemployment is largely recruited. In such conditions, measures should be taken to raise competitiveness, invest and increase the export sector. One area of competitiveness is certainly working legislation that needs to be sufficiently flexible to be able to respond quickly to market changes. This part of EU legislation is governed by a series of directives that members enter into national legislation, which relate to changes to individual institutions that facilitate worker fluctuations, to achieve internal flexibility in employers, to reduce employment to a certain time. And we are introducing it into our legislation in the introduction of this law, and in the opening provision are all the directives that we put into the Labour Act. In our case, the new Labour Act should provide for the following objectives – rapid adjustment of the situation on the market, foster flexible forms of employment and make certain institutes clearer. Therefore, there are no radical changes to the damage to work, but the Law regulates the work process and thus enables the monitoring of working time and more effective supervision by the Labour Inspectorate. The biggest dispute in the union law proposal is the regulation of working time, stressing that the law's intensity is not in excessive work but a more flexible schedule of working hours. That's exactly what we've discussed with the representatives of our club in this preparation for the debate. Overtime work and redistribution of working hours assumes exceptional circumstances, cases of direct labour needs to increase the size of work in limited time, seasonal character of production, or business. The law imposes an obligation on the employer that the worker by written notice, i.e. imposes overtime and introduces restrictions on the work intensity of the week to a maximum of 56 hours, or 48 hours if it is working for 4 months consecutively. This makes it easier to monitor and monitor overtime, which is not the case so far. Similarly, the redistribution of working hours is limited to all employers, not just those who have shift jobs. It should be noted that the labour intensity must remain on an average of 40 hours a week, which is ensured by an unequal schedule per week and months. For overtime and redistribution, the law regulates minimum conditions, and more levels can be regulated by collective agreement and collective bargaining should actually be the basis for regulating the employment and capital ratios in companies. If the formulations relating to the Institute of Working Time Schedules are not clearly defined enough to cause different interpretations which we are actually aware of at this time need to be more clearly highlighted specific conditions when working 48 hours, or 56 hours, or limit daily working hours to a maximum of 12 hours. We advocate that the use of overtime and redistribution of working hours is carried out by the employer through consultation with the union, i.e. the Working Council, and the Labour Inspectorate controls such cases strictly on the basis of documentation, rather than on the testimony of workers who, in fear of their workplace, do not give the right picture how it works. On the basis of European directives, the law makes it more clear that the work of the Temporary Employment Agency is part of the work, i.e. the admission of workers. Our legislation introduces the definition of the employed worker, repeals certain labour bans through the Agency and lays down the procedure to regulate the level of wage compensation for agency workers. We believe that the employer can use the Agency's services but only for temporary employment in a limited period of time, so we suggest that this length of work be reassessed for as many as three years, not that the employed worker works on jobs that are a continuous part of the business process, i.e. for work on which a working relationship can be based for a certain or indefinite period of time. Also, an employer who has used the Institute of Technological Excess and fired a part of the worker must not use suspended workers for a longer period of time, so this should be more clearly defined in the law itself. We also point out the newspaper that an employer can make a contract with a pregnant woman, or a woman who is breastfeeding a child under more favourable conditions, especially under conditions of work that do not harm the health of a woman and child, as well as the right to strike for non-payment of wages immediately at the maturity of pay, and not with a 30-day departure which is very important in today's situation where almost 70,000 workers do not receive or receive paid irregularly. Social partners voice dissatisfaction with the bill's proposal, trade unions warn that it favours employers especially in the part of regulation of working time schedules. The debate in the Croatian Parliament is part of a public debate until the adoption of the law. This is the most public debate because it can listen to the general public, unlike the debate that is being held between social partners. We call on the social partners, especially the unions, to use the debate in the coming time to further agree the disputed institutes in both the government and the Croatian Parliament. The SDP club is open to such a debate and the activities of the union are seen as a legitimate struggle for workers' rights. However, the Croatian Parliament must find an optimal relationship between labour and capital in times of crisis and high unemployment. The SDP club advocates that Croatian workers should not be in a worse position than workers in EU member states. Croatia's economy needs investments that raise competitiveness and create new jobs in view of high unemployment. In the absence of domestic battery, we are forced to use other people's funds or to ensure conditions for foreign and domestic investments. In this respect, under other conditions and the labour market must be consistent with our environment but always bearing in mind the dignity of workers and workers. We believe we can do this together. Croatian citizens deserve to exercise constitutional right to work and to pay fair wages for fair work. The Croatian Parliament and we and their representatives sitting here can do so and we must ensure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72062	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first one came forward, the esteemed Dragutin Lesar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72063	Dear Mrs. Zgrebec, you mentioned the redistribution of working time and its normative regulation but as if all the time you forget that those who have a contract for a certain time and in the private sector such people have a problem that when they just arrive on time to work, it takes seven years to redistribute the contract for a certain time. This is true and the Labour Act should be read in the context of its enforceability. It stimulates and helps union organization. The main tool of union organization is a collective contract. When you touch the system and disrupt the system of freedom of collective bargaining in a way that empowers workers' councils to negotiate you create conditions for the establishment of yellow unions and factory collective agreements. But, behold, the working councils are suddenly given more powers but it is forgotten to say that the German model, this German model of labour law, cannot be introduced overtime after consulting the working council as it writes in our law but with the consent of the working council, so put in the Labour Act that overtime and redistribution can be introduced with the consent of the working council rather than consultation, after consultation. The labour inspection will be effective especially in Međimurje because the minister abolished the inspection service in Međimurje, Međimurje County and moved to Varazdin with his interior. There's no office, there's no office, there's nothing, and then the workers whose rights are denied in Međimurje will borrow money, get on a bus or train to go look for an inspector after Varazdin, and they'll be very successful with that new construction unit that the minister ran last week at the government, I don't know if you even knew that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72064	The replica matches the esteemed vice president of the House, Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72065	A worker on a fixed worker has the same rights when talking about the work process. Therefore, there is no difference between working and working part - time, however, in working part - time. Unlike you, I have experience, which means running the company, which means ensuring a job and what it means to appreciate a worker who does such a job and no employer who normally runs the company, and these are the majority in Croatia, will take great care to reach a consensus with the workers, the union, the working council when it is necessary to do a certain job so that the company can continuously and successfully do business.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72066	The Republic will now be presented by Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72067	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Madam Vice President, I'm not going to tell you, of course, as the minister has transferred to me that I used the notes you read upstairs, but I think it's a good thing that you're prepared for it, especially since the minister has been reading his speech for 32 minutes. What prompted me most is that you said correctly that the Croatian economy needs new investments. Unfortunately, this law, which introduces certain reductions in labour rights, will not boost neither the Croatian economy nor increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, nor will unemployment be reduced, nor will the same unemployment be maintained, best of all, let alone investment will attract. Speaking of investments, one research was made and it was done by the portal My job, followed by 91% of the employees of large companies believe that the amendments to this Act will not increase investment, so does 75% of respondents from medium-sized companies and 62 small company respondents. Therefore, employers also hold that this will not attract investment, and the fact is that business, employment, investment should be encouraged by economic measures and certainly not by cosmetic changes to larger or smaller ones, let alone by reducing labour rights. Unfortunately, therefore, no investment will be attracted, but there may be serious social earthquakes that will certainly happen because the social decomposition and poverty of workers will deepen, and of course I do not think it should be irrelevant to anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72068	On behalf of the Vice President of the House, the vice president of the House answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72069	My dear colleague, out of respect for the people I address, I wrote and read my discussion, precisely because it is a short time to improvise on such a subject. What reduction of rights? You're all talking about reducing rights, and no one's saying which rights are being reduced. On the contrary, today, when workers work to the point of unconsciousness in some activities where the Labour Inspector asks the worker how he works, will he say that he works 12 hours a day and it's unpaid? Half of it unpaid hours. That's exactly what this law says, the employer has to write a letter to the worker when he's going to work overtime, at what time. On the basis of this documentation, surveillance can be carried out in such a company. No one's naive to think any law will boost investment. He who has the capital, an entrepreneur who will invest, will invest when he sees that he will get the capital in fertilized as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72070	Now we're going to hear the replica of the esteemed colleague Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72071	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Vice President, here you are, and you said that the debate in the House is the best debate because citizens need to hear our thoughts and everything about the Labour Act, but this is exactly how we put these citizens, I mean in one big doubt because at the same address, and that's St. John's Square. Mark 6 we have a debate in Parliament about the Labour Act, and in front of the Assembly unions who also tell the story of the same law, but two totally different ways. We listen here today, when someone is speaking on behalf of the government, then we hear that the unions will not negotiate and negotiate, that those who avoid negotiations, then listen outside the unions, and they say that it is the government that will not negotiate, honor the agreements, and that is an extremely bad communication with the citizens, I would say from both sides, and from us perhaps hastily that we are discussing the Labour Act in Parliament, and that before that, the partners had not negotiated what they were supposed to negotiate. As far as your statement that work is fixed and indefinitely complete, that contract one or the other in exactly the same way protects the worker, does not protect it. A worker who has been employed for a certain period of time for two or three months, has no right to have a worker for a certain time. We can now discuss for those two or three months which he has rights and how much protection he is and there I will agree with you to protect him. However, work at a certain time is extremely bad and extremely devastating for those workers who are thus employed through agencies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72072	The replica matches Vice President Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72073	I still think that the debate in the Croatian Parliament is the most public debate because those who are in power are also heard by those who are in opposition. You will never fully experience the consensus of the partners because the interests of capital and labour are at least in two or three segments are incompatible. So you'll never have a full consensus, but it's up to us to get to the maximum agreement, what's going to be in favor of both. The government, unlike the unions, must look at both sides and look at the overall social development. Trade unions have their role and their role is to protect workers and workers, and they have to do so and we advocate that in every company, workers are free to organise the union, but not under any coercion and not to be organised by employers. That doesn't make sense. I will repeat again, my colleague Lesar said that, as far as overtime or redistribution is concerned, workers are in an unfavourable position if they are at a certain time. That is correct, I was only talking about this segment, when it comes to working hours, whether the worker is working on certain or indefinite working hours, his rights as regards the work done in regular or overtime are equal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72074	Now we'll hear the replica of the esteemed Brank Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72075	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Vice President, you said in your presentation I respect the attitude of labour and capital. Absolutely, who wouldn't agree with that, we only have one small problem with this law. The capital is silent, the workers are rebelling. As my colleague said earlier, we are discussing here in the assembly, the workers are arguing outside in the square, in front of the church, the only dear God can obviously help us, and in fact we should do something, just a little bit more. You, as a SDP representative club and a complete Kukuriku coalition, should force the prime minister and president of the SDP to invite representatives of the capital and workers to the same table. I am convinced that a solution could be found at that table.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72076	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Vice President, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72077	My colleague Hrg, does not keep his capital quiet, is very critical, even delegations go to Brussels to say that the Croatian government does not provide conditions for capital. So don't shut up. Maybe this law doesn't work out for them because this time, if the workers are exploited in a way that makes them do it overtime, they're going to have to pay for it because now they're going to have to record it, and they're going to be subject to surveillance, not that the store worker has to come an hour early, but they're going to start working hours later, and they're going to stay two hours later when they end up in the store itself and they're still working in the warehouse and no one can control it. So it's very loud for those who own capital.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72078	A new replica, the gnome of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72079	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, you have really done your debate peacefully and have said several times that you stand in front of the SDP club, and that is what it means in front of the government. Well, dear colleagues, this government, two years ago, has been stockpiling all the elements of the classic part of the fraud because in these two years, it has deceived both workers and unions and young people and everything. You promised in your pre-election campaign that you'd honor collective agreements, that you'd hire young people, that you wouldn't change the Labour Act, that you'd be in plus three salaries, and not to be paid, and believe the redness of those 25 thousand who don't even get paid, 380 who aren't able to even get to work, and therefore you see Mrs. Vice President, someone who has all the elements of the classic part of the fraud as this government has, in two years ago, all those who voted for them are willing to report it to the State's Attorney's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72080	The replica matches Vice President Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72081	My colleagues, the door is open for you. Do it, it's your duty. But in the fraud between the left and the right, the right is without competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72082	A new replica, a respected Vesna Scare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72083	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, you have mentioned several times that this Labour Act should be harmonised to comply with EU directives. I do not know if you have seen the European Commission report on unemployment and social movements in Europe for 2013. It cites the experience of countries that have coordinated legislation and experience and which are the consequences of this harmonisation. The reduction in wages, the atypical forms of work have increased poverty, increased the gap between rich and poor and endangering the EU's very foundations, the report said. Flexible forms of work, therefore, temporary and occasional employment, limited hours of work, low wages, employment can help people get out of poverty, but only in half of such cases in the other half. 60% of EU employees want a fixed or temporary job, but they cannot find a permanent job, and in this respect young people in the EU are threatened exactly the way they are threatened in Croatia, and in Croatia young people are even more threatened. Temporary and occasional work does not have the character of prominence where such a contract of work refers to training and internship. All countries now defending temporary employment agencies limit all countries in the EU to 25% of the stakes for creating uncertainty and falling standards. We are introducing it to a large door and I have not yet heard what percentage in Croatia will cover the agencies. So a significant reduction in social spending, an example of poor Bulgaria and Poland, which gave up supporting the unemployed and created major crises, and countries with a strong unemployment aid system have a far greater chance of reducing the unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72084	Your colleagues, Scissor Ossbolt, have run out of time. The reply to the replica of the esteemed Vice President, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72085	Well, that's exactly what you colleagues are saying. It's a public debate. I also said that it should be clearly established when a worker can work overtime, to what extent it can be a redistribution of working hours, and to where it can be employed by stipend workers. It's precisely because it's being exploited right now. It is not people who are employed when this business process or technological process requires it, but it forces workers to work overtime. Right now, we are laying down in law what conditions and when and how long a worker can work overtime and how much he can work through the redistribution of working hours. If some of these institutes are not clear or defined enough or cause doubt in the interpretation itself, they need to be read again and through discussion and through dialogue with the social partners so that they are clear and unequivocal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72086	The last replica, the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72087	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I think it is a great decision for your club to speak on behalf of the club on behalf of this bill because it is good that you spoke calmly, without too much passion and that you called for further dialogue so that you called for a dialogue. I'll repeat what I said earlier, I think it's very important if you can agree with the Prime Minister that he is the one who will call for a conversation that will call for a continuation of the dialogue, the one who will conduct that conversation or those talks until when it is necessary. By the second reading, you are certainly seeking to remove all these misunderstandings at the table or to try to remove them in the government because I repeat it was the Prime Minister who, by his signature, committed that the Labour Act would not change. So he, and he admitted a mistake here when I asked him about it and that's good. Therefore, he is responsible for his signature, to open the conversation, to continue the dialogue and to continue the talks and to try to reach such a consensus because without it, we will have absolute general cacophony. And even those good provisions of this law, which some say, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs will be absolutely and completely lost from sight. I repeat, the government is always the most responsible, the government is also responsible for the collapse of some law, the withdrawal of some law from the procedure. But only wise politicians try to remove difficulties and problems rather than create and build new ones. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72088	And this reply to the esteemed Vice President Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72089	Experience tells me you have to trust your associates. The most responsible for the adoption of the Law is the Croatian Parliament. The government may suggest something, the Croatian Parliament may and should not accept it. And I leave it to the most responsible for the proposal and for the talks is for the Ministry of Labour to propose to the Government what the proposal or draft of the Labour Act will look like and we are the most responsible in what form we will accept it. If the Prime Minister will assess that he too is involved in such talks, I leave it to him, neither the SDP club nor anyone else has the right to put such pressure on him.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72090	We're continuing the club debate. Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin were reported on behalf of the independent club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72091	Mr. Vice President, ministers with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. I have read the last few days of a thought that in some times and some days it is harder to live than to think. It's harder to live than to think. And I am convinced that today we will survive all this but whether we are responsible and critical about the debate in question is a whole other question. I think we should open a critical free debate when it comes to this law. I am glad that this is not the first and second reading and that no decision on the Labour Law is made on the shortcut. We have until the second reading of time to hear all the suggestions, to respect them, and to pass a quality labour law. My syntagma was "a man above all", today in Croatia is a syntagma "worker above all and work above all", it cannot be separated from one another, who is not for a man not for a man of workers and vice versa. Therefore, we welcome reading in two circles and discussion. And I recommend what most speakers have said and that I address trade unions and workers in the Square to accept a call for dialogue and then to open a debate in the Parliament. When the participants of that dialogue and let it be initiated by the Prime Minister why not, let him lead it and let them come with the final law and then it will be or will not be accepted by the MPs of the Parliament. It is clear to me that this debate, as well as all the discussions we have had so far, is hard to go because structural changes are needed for Croatia and without these structural changes, the effectiveness of any law that we will pass will not give the expected fruits. I'm afraid that there's someone present to question me and myself, that there's a lot of manipulation with workers, with a people discussing this law, and that's for sure to be avoided. Manipulation is regularly pounced on the head of those who use this manipulation. We are discussing the Labour Act here, we are privileged under the law as parliamentary representatives, we have good and regular salaries and those who are on the streets or in St. Mark's Square they are debilitating with everything and everything. That's why I'm not going to use this here as some promotion of my idea or political attitude, but I advocate the rights of the worker "man above all, worker above all" and the other part will have Mr. Cain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72092	Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72093	Mr. Vice President, Minister, MPs. Yes, as he said while Grubisic, it is good that this law goes in two readings. There are those who pollomize with whether we need one law at this time but in any case good to go in two readings. I'm sure the hardest neighborhood since 2000 is behind us. In 90 days in this country 74 865 jobs have disappeared, in my Istria over 3000, the Arena Tricotage now confirms it. In 90 days, 4741 turns were closed, about 300 in Istria. In 90 days, the number of blocked citizens increased by 15 000 and blocked bills from 26 billion kuna grew somewhere to 28. The total number of employees fell to a million and 400,000 or 5 years ago, Croatia had 216 000 employees more than it has today. Who's to blame? Nobody's doing well today, not even good to the banks, "not good". They have achieved probably the lowest profit in history, about 70% less than the year 2012 and that is Croatian indeed. And it certainly is one thing that workers can't be blamed for this situation in any way. I understand normally those who were here in the square until a while ago, and I understand those who follow us as well. The labour law, this working "biblia" so as not to get me wrong, is dominantly related to these large privatized companies and where, to whom, public administration, municipal companies, public services. A small sector, I dare say almost no one asks a question, which is an entirely different extreme. In fact, I'd dare say that today is harder for that little craftsman than he is for a worker. He's simply fighting for a naked survival in the market, for a naked survival, feeding the upgrade, and since it's primarily a small craftsman, a small employer, he knows it himself. And sometimes we don't understand them, sometimes they're not understood by the government or the resolute minister, sometimes they're not understood by employees in them, or can be understood by trade unions. And clearly, those who don't understand them are actually responsible for passing these laws. Here we are now threatened with a general or general strike. What's it gonna look like, some other time. But what I'm going to say is, the budget hole is about 6.6 billion kuna right now, and we have the Labour Act. Is he a priority at this point, maybe he isn't. I repeat, a clear worker can't do anything to him, a small sector, a craftsman, the question is what can the state, government or government at this point not have to buy cars, but something must try. The visa investment of this law itself, we're all aware, hardly possible. I'm looking at my Istria too, investing mainly in states, roads, water, here elsewhere when I look at this private sector, something outside of tourism almost doesn't have an investment. The whole state, in some ways, might need to be reorganized. Why, because at this point we say we have up to 100,000 more people in upgrades than in the upgrades worked in 1990, which costs taxpayers about 15 billion kunas at the annual level. You know what, I dare say that the worker will start protecting himself only when unemployment falls on that period we may have had until the '90s. A year. This will happen when, it will never happen again in Croatia, and even until then, I dare say that unemployment determines these workers' rights as well. People just agree to everything, logically, just to work, to have kids for marenda, to have kids to buy shoes, shoes or I don't know what. The higher the employment, let's be aware that the greater the rights, the higher unemployment, the less the right will be in this country. Now that we're talking and it's an interesting text that's also recently come out, the World Bank of Labour has flexible your laws and now you're in a group with Germany. It says or their experts in Croatia that Croatia has finally, I quote, "has made a shift in reducing labour market rigidity which is one of the key obstacles to investment and growth in the economy". According to their calculation, I quote "the index of the rigidity of the labour legislation of Croatia was 2.67, now it is 2.33, these people say, and Croatia is now classified as a group of countries such as Belgium and Germany. Now is that possible to believe, of some other occasion? But how did that set go, let's say, harmonising under the allegations of labour law in the last two years. First, the unlimited duration of collective agreements in public companies and the state administration was lifted. The government can break down collectively since 2012, even if the trade unions disagree or disagree with it, in exceptional circumstances such as this one is now a recession. Second, the Employment Encouragement Act 2013 introduced a new category of seasonal worker performing certain seasonal jobs in agriculture. The voucher system has increased the chances of heavily employed groups such as less educated workers. Third, the first amendments to the Labour Act that took place with us in 2013, abolished the labour limit indefinitely. Until then, only three years could be worked on, and now we know there are no limits. And now we come to these laws, so new changes that haven't been clearly voted yet, when we see, there's a greater flexibility of working time. Employers will be able to extend the working week to 56 hours without the union's consent, but workers must or must be compensated for it during another period when they work less than 40 hours. It simplifies and there may be the biggest problem with the law of layoffs. Employers will not have to allow the worker to move or move to another place of work before canceling. The procedure for collective termination of 20 people and more people is simpler, there is no need to work on a program for the Employment Office, etc. etc. What's for sure, Mr. Schucker, the most important thing when we talk about these provisions, that a man, not a man, a woman, is not important, is being paid anyway. People will work under these circumstances if they get paid and that's actually the point. It'll work if it takes 50 and 56 and 60 hours but they have to be paid. Be assured that those workers or those workers in the Arena in Pula would work only if someone paid them that work and would be grateful to those who would make it clear to them. Where do our unions mostly work? Absolutely legitimate is their protest and no one can stand between them, the Parliament, the Government, etc. But they mostly work where? In the upgrade, in public services, it works where wages are guaranteed. But you know who's in trouble? First of all, the biggest problems are these little craftsmen. And to finish, or small craftsmen, work in these privatized large companies that usually have this kind of monopoly. In the case of young people, whatever someone thinks is almost under quotes, this Labour Act applies as it applies or does not apply. And as Don Grubisic said or initially began, man above all, worker above all, street not, but if he encourages the debate it is as legitimate as it is to those themselves. That street doesn't use. It means power in the service of the people, not the people in the service of power. And that's where Parliament normally appears, and that's probably our best, most primary position. It is true what the minister said that this law is the minimum right, that collective agreements can extend it. But under these circumstances, I doubt it's simply possible. Perhaps it is possible to expand these rights somewhere in Canada, somewhere in Australia or New Zealand, where every day more and more of our citizens leave and seek the opportunity to earn bread and some new chance they unfortunately couldn't find here. All in all, it is certainly good that the law goes into another reading, and it might be opportunised to consider re-establishing the government's dialogue, the unions, I don't know the politics, the MPs, however, that if the law is required, there goes the third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72094	Thank you. At the exhibition of the respected Ivan Grubisic we have two replicas, and on Damir Kajin one. So first we will hear the replicas of the first part of the presentation on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club and will be presented by Vice President Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72095	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Grubisic, I must admit that I am actually surprised to hear you and my colleague Kajin say that you are thrilled that this law goes into another reading because it seems to me that we should all have to imagine ourselves so much over the fact that we can even express our happiness that some law goes into another reading. That should be normal. Unfortunately, two-thirds of the laws are voted by emergency procedure by pushing them headlessly and then of course they have to change, etc. So it's just bizarre that we're agents here who are satisfied that the government has allowed us to have two readings of some law. You have called on us to be responsible and critical today, however, whether responsible and critical was meant when this proposal was made. In fact, the Government did not present any single analytical basis, data, figures that would actually support the claim, or explain the reason for the revision of certain institutions in the Labour Act. Therefore, none of this guarantees more or less, nor maintaining the same employment, guarantees greater competitiveness, guarantees less labour costs, and certainly does not guarantee attracting investment. So the question arises, then, why are we even discussing it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72096	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Ivan Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72097	Mr. Reiner's notes. I think they're standing. I'm not thrilled with the laws being passed by emergency procedure, but here we are fortunate that it is determined, that this is the first reading and yet I wouldn't mind having a third reading until different opinions are matched. So here is not a commendation of this bill but simply an open opportunity to take all the options to the table and discuss them. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72098	Another replica respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72099	Dear Mr. Ivan Grubisic, you said exactly in your debate how sad it is to manipulate and often by the troubles of man, by the troubles of workers. And here you can see that this manipulation always breaks into the heads of those who serve that manipulation. Unfortunately, history teaches us and it's recent how those who have been manipulated have just been more affected by the new composed protectors of workers and workers who have now been solidarity with workers, these same ones who have taken away not only the workplace but the factory, the place where their workplace was, those who have taken away not only their work but who have taken away their name, and then, in the 1990s, when the Labour Act was passed, this worker no longer should have called himself a worker, but was called a trafficker. So, you, the last time they came to power, they banned them from gathering in Mark's square, so they wouldn't listen to them. Here are those who are now newly composed of the protection of workers and workers and have always filled those who are full of glasses with profits. However, what you are particularly saying is something that Croatia needs, so structural changes but not just those that we and we can spend in Croatia, but we have the opportunity to decide and that the position of workers will be in Europe at all and then in Croatia. Yes, that is what the European Left is preparing and it is in its programme, its economic policies, and that is mandatory co-decision of workers in the process of production. Unlike the 51st year when he was 12th, which is exactly what we see as the finger of the wicked, we are fortunate to have now the ally of Pope Francis who sees the finger of God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72100	Thank you. The replica corresponds to the respected Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72101	To express gratitude for the thought and extension of Mrs. Anticevic's thesis, although my view of some problems is somewhat different from what the lady presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72102	The presentation of Damir Kajina's replica includes Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72103	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Cain, I find it hard to hunt you down a little while while I've been following you for a long time, but I've noticed an allegation where you said the vouchers helped with seasonal employment in agriculture, and thank God that if someone got a job in agriculture, but unfortunately, it didn't help the survival of agriculture, but we're witnessing a rapid collapse. And I repeat this time in this place that I have said several times that in agriculture, quality moves and those who should have, there was potential, potential for high-end jobs and there would not have been a loss of certainly tens of thousands of jobs because all these opgs that have failed, in that part, a large number of jobs have been lost and what you have finally said is that these 90 worst days you are witnessing. You were talking about all those indicators. And then you ask who's to blame? So you're not going to say that it's those workers who are out of a job and you're also calling for the worker to be first, to have respect, so it's always for dialogue and reason that it takes two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72104	On behalf of the Croatian Labourers' Club, the parties of work will speak for the respected Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72105	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I consider this content of the Labour Act a new well on neoliberal capitalism, without the fence of the protective feedback valve, which will cause the dirty water of the neoliberal market model to destroy social justice and indeed hide the demands to re-quote Prime Minister Milanovic's neoliberal analysts, employers, who have for years demanded that the labour market be flexible but only in their first wheel, which is a relief of layoff. The other 14 were apparently translated into Croatian. We were bombed by the government by a call for consensus and unions and we were even accused this morning of not wanting to discuss the law, but good liberals have the right to that, too, mirage. So if the problem is opposition in the Parliament and unions, the ruling majority of the consensus can always ask for support in the referendum. If we are the culprits of not agreeing to the agreement and the changes and in the delusion of content, if we oppose the changes that are so necessary and remain clean, I call on the ruling Kukurik coalition to issue a referendum after the first reading of the Labour Act. The referendum decision is mandatory, and if the citizens in the referendum support this law, it will be proof that everyone who warned about the 5.6 weak points, we were wrong, that we were protecting our interests and not their interests, and then the story of the consensus ceases, the opponents of the change ceases and the finding of the guilty ceases. If you're sure you're right, go to the public. But when we evaluate the quality of the Labour Act, then we must not forget that its quality and way and the possibility of implementation must be evaluated through three rebel points, whether there are or not collective agreements after the Labour Act, how many employees are covered by collective agreements and where that coverage is less than 50% will always be required for the Labour Act to be stronger, tighter, where collective agreements are something that includes, there and the weak Labour Act. The second point of control is the inspection system and control. I responsibly argue that the existing inspection control system in Croatia is none, neither is there sufficient inspectors nor have sufficient material conditions to do their job. That's what people who can't reach an inspector testify to for days, and 50% of the answer is to sue the employer. And the third point of control is a trial. Whether there are special working courts or within the framework of regular courts. The speed of decision-making and judgment is the third control point of the good, weak, strong or poor Labour Act. And for years we've been dealing with amendments to the Labour Act, and that nothing of quality or too little, here I am correcting myself, we're doing too little work on these two, three checkpoints. Moreover, systematic collective agreements are further destroyed in Croatia. When I spoke about employers' social responsibility this morning, I thought first of all about the following. 50% of Croatian capitalists came to their entrepreneurship property in conversion and privatisation for one tenth of the value. They've got donated property most of the time. And that's why they have social responsibility. But that's not all. The Croatian state gives incentives to agriculture, production and food processing and when they take state, public money is then social entities. When the state wants to regulate the rights of their employees, they are called for private property. The employment programmes of the various measures that the ministry implemented, if I have the correct information, some 50,000 people in the last year came to work in the private sector, the benefited terms of the state budget. So they were not private capitalists, but social entities significant to Croatia, when they were getting cheaper labour, as well as third volunteers for 1600 kuna who were doing the same for those same ones who seek and accuse labour legislation of being rigid. These same capitalists seek to write off their debts through pre-emptive settlements, decide for themselves whom and how much they will pay, they are social entities, not private capitalists who should have social responsibility. And when a billion, two, three tax debts are written off, the next day they are private capitalists again, doing whatever they want and demanding that the Croatian Parliament pass a law by which only they decide in the rights of workers. The Croatian Bank often gives them loans cheaper, with a lower price of capital, that's good, but that's taxpayers' money. And yet they forget that it's the public money that the citizens of this country give them to help them develop, invest, work. Public private partnership, agency guarantees for loans they receive, state and local, imprecisely strategic projects, for private investment that receives a trademark of a strategic project, the state works to expropriate private property to build a factory, and then the social entity will be important to the Republic of Croatia, but when asked about labour rights and behaviour towards workers, it is a private matter. And finally, state guarantees for private investment. Should I remind you of the disintegration of Dina's situation in Krk? Do I need to remind myself of the takeover of state guarantees both in shipbuilding and in privatisation? All of these were examples when the public money of taxpayers was in the function of enriching, creating private capital. But they forget it all. Who is the legal norm, the Labour Act? Good, fair, fair and responsible, socially responsible employers have not yet had great objections to the Labour Law because they have, for the most part, regulated... the debts. And we don't get a lot of complaints from them, complaints, complaints. But in Croatia, as in every country, there are poor, unfair, unfair and irresponsible employers, and for them the Labour Act is passed. So it's the only classification of employers we can agree to. These are those whom Milanovic, in his statement, called neoliberal employers who see only the interest of profit and nothing else, and will demand from each government such conditions that the profit is as high as possible and that employees' rights are asked as little as possible. He has this law of secret intentions. Whether the songwriters are aware of it or not, I don't know it and I don't even care, but the Law of Labour was read through the way it was implemented and the experience of manipulation. These changes and these changes, particularly through the distribution of working time, agency employment and the reduction of the importance of trade unions and collective agreements, will enable employers to get rid of those workers who are in the category of spent, older, powerless, sick and who do not give them what they expect of them anymore. There will be a drop in labour prices, agency employment, which will be more and more because they will soon understand this possibility of manipulation and will not hire him at the same workplace where he quit business conditions, but will invent a second job. After all, why are we expanding the powers of the Workers' Councils to strengthen their role where there are no unions, and not to spread where the key is when it comes to decisions, so as I pointed out earlier, not after consultations, but only with the consent of the Working Council. And the fate of collective agreements is becoming more uncertain and we are the only state that has unfortunately retained the system and regulations on work and collective contracts. If we really want to encourage collective agreements as an instrument for the negotiation and expansion of rights and the legislative framework, then the Labour Rules have nothing to do on the labour market, then collective agreements. In addition to the severance of state employees in such a way as to guarantee 1/3 of the salary per year of the internship, only minimum salaries are guaranteed by employees of material rights. And that's true. Of course, through the redistribution of working hours up to 56 hours per law, and up to 60 if regulated by a collective agreement, there will be a new point of manipulation especially for those employees who have a contract for a specified time. In the public sector in the state and public administration, contracts are dominated indefinitely, the private sector is dominated by the contract for a specified period of time. And the living truth is, I don't know if those things come to you, all those who have a contract at a certain time at a time when they should use some of their rights and even the right to redistribute the working time contract points out and they don't have any more possibilities to regain that right. Someone said that people would only work to get paid, so the slaves always worked only if they got at least one meal a day. Is that the goal we need to achieve? Proving the rights that workers seek in Croatia is an impossible mission because of fear. Because of the fear that has prevailed so wide and strong that people do not dare to submit to the work inspector, let alone go to court because the vengeful hand of those behind it is too far away. And often in this assembly there was a debate about family, position, importance, nationality, so tell me what kind of care we have about family and Natalie if we say that the employer can prescribe everyone to work on Saturdays and Sundays 56 hours a week for women employed in days when there are no kindergartens or social services, taking care of anything. And of course there will be a new layoff because the labour market offer is still too large to be corrected in such a way as to correct supply and demand. If you don't believe go talk to the people who are working on the contract on a certain, at 4 o'clock and work 8 o'clock, so where and there are whistle cards come to work at 6:00 but at the order of the card they have to whistle at 7.00 they work until 6:00 p.m. and the cards are clinking at 4:00 if they want to keep the job. Now tell me I'm making it up, that you don't know it's true, that you don't know that it's working overtime and that it doesn't get registered and doesn't pay. The Labour Act knows two categories of employers by number of employees, 20 and more and 1 to 19. What rules of the Labour Act don't apply to these by 19? They should not have a collective contract, they should not have a labour code, they should not bring in an extra programme or respect those three safeguard criteria when firing, length of work, age, and whether or not the worker is holding someone back, so for all of them, these safeguards are not worth it. And how many such employers are in Croatia? 104 thousand employers employ 359 thousand 587 workers to whom these protection mechanisms under the Labour Act are not applied because they are individually 1 to 19 employees. That's a third in the private sector. And that's the fact that we immediately remove any suspicion that so far the Labour Act has been any problem. Businessly conditioned quits, personally conditioned cancellations, cancellations conditional on workers' behaviour, and say that after the cancellation of the business-conditional cancellation, no new employment will be possible. Such a norm existed until now, so have employers, in a similar way, not such forgiveness, abused that possibility? They did. What are we opening it with now? The agencies, and the public sector outsourcing will therefore replace public sector agency employment in the private sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72106	Now we move on to replicas. The first came from the respected Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72107	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Lesar, in the first part of your presentation, you said it would be good to call a referendum after this first reading to see what the citizens think about this law. Well, I'm sure 70,000 unpaid salaries would be paid if we asked if you wanted the employer to pay you 70 grand would be for it. If you ask 384 thousand unemployed people if you're willing not to be unemployed anymore, we'd all be in favor. If you ask 280 thousand citizens with blocked accounts if you want the bank to block your account, 280 thousand votes for it. Unfortunately, the current legal formulations of the constitutional and legal round of the referendum allow for a referendum to be called on about anything. I prefer, I understood your intention to return the dialogue to the table between the unions, the social partners, the employers and all those who wish well first of all to the workers. We are in favour of establishing a balance between public sector employees, private sector employees, among employers who are honest and work in very difficult conditions, too, and some are unfair and take advantage of their position, exploit their country and simply try to do what is necessary with one normal conversation with everyone, which is a quality labour law or labour legislation. The truth is that reform is necessary and necessary but the way this is started and how it cares, it's politically bad. The policy behind this law is the rule of law behind the ruling coalition, behind the way it is presented, there is a political blow, above all, to those who are currently in power but also to any other policy and government that will come because you are careful, it is easier to say that someone is against it, but when power is taken over, it must not be forgotten that many have made promises and have done nothing. There's a key problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72108	The replica matches Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72109	Comrade Salapic, fortunately you are wrong to call a referendum on everything in Croatia, I would like to refer you to the Constitutional Court documents from which it clearly comes out on the topics referred to in Articles 1 and 3. The Constitution is not allowed referendums in Croatia. Secondly, when I proposed a referendum, I proposed a referendum on whether or not you are in favour of or against the draft Act on Labour, which is in accordance with the existing constitutional provision, because a referendum on the bill can be called. And while you are and I repeat that proposal again, it is very simple, are you in favour or against the Proposal for a Labour Act. Without the demagogy that was present in your replica. And since you have already mentioned pre-price settlements, it would be interesting to see if the Parliament would also accept my proposal that the Institute of Pre-departure Agreements also enable citizens who are in debt to anyone and that each citizen as a debtor will independently decide which trustee will recognise the claims and how much credit will be paid when we are already talking about the same position and equal application of justice to everyone in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72110	A new replica of Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, in one part I can agree with you in your debate especially when you spoke about capitalists, Croatian capitalists, I will add to the tycoons and tycoons who acquired their property at the time of conversion, and by law, we probably all agree together. But what was not often in accordance with the law is their line with the public sector and they built on it their property. Of course their profits are above all else. However, you will agree, they have in the meantime stepped up and strengthened and they are capable even of the competition and they are still operating in accordance with the law. What about them now? And on the other hand, I don't care about them, and on the other hand we have employers, there have been very few words about them here today, small, medium, entrepreneurship, craftsmanship that should also be helped, and this law is, in my opinion, a bill of law and a trail of exactly those and such. We can't do that kind of discourse. And these too, and they need them, such a situation of flexicurity is very much so. And I see that I'm running out of time very quickly and this is exactly what you said about both working for a certain time and for four hours and for labour rights violations. But I wonder, I'm sorry there's no union there. It's most often in the real sector in the primary and secondary branches, is it, tertiary we're covered. So why aren't there any unions? But I'll discuss it later in my debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72112	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72113	My dear colleague, I did not use the word Croatian capitalists, but capitalists, because those who came to Croatia either from Europe or beyond that behave just as badly as those who got rich in the '90s, which is a little surprising because they came from orderly countries and at home behave according to social responsibility and when they come to Croatia, they go wild. You're asking what to do with them? Time is too short, since your president is also talking about employers' social responsibility, I cannot elaborate it now, so I suggest that he explain to you what is meant by the socially responsible behaviour of employers. Why aren't there any unions with small employers in the private sector? You don't know, I'll tell you. Because one of the questions when asking for a job is that you gave a union member if he says he's sure he won't get a job because union representatives are forbidden to enter such businesses, shops, whatever you want to say, do everything they can to avoid unions, so there are no collective agreements. The blame is on the legislation because it did not follow the trend, it was for the poor state of collective agreements, a poorly developed system of collective agreements that existed in Croatia, and always the guilty authorities and employers were destroyed. Because this other side is always weaker that without a strong fight and what you call a damage production such as yesterday's strike and collective agreements can only be made by strong, general strikes that must always force someone to step down. But instead, you introduce work obligations when someone organizes a strike.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72114	We continue with the replicas of the esteemed vice president of the House, Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Lesar, you have made this very interesting proposal to call a referendum. It is clear to you and to us that it will unfortunately not come true because the referendum is also citizens who are just outside the Assembly now who are clearly saying what they think. However, the problem with this Law is that, and that has already been said, it was even said by those who advocate this Law that not only unions are unhappy with it but also that employers are dissatisfied with it. So now if we have some law that the employers and unions are unhappy with, then you're really a man of reason asking a question and why is it then... that such a law, which everyone is dissatisfied with, is forced into force. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also quite clear that the Labour Act is not the cause of the crisis in the Croatian economy, nor will the change of the Labour Act improve anything in the Croatian economy. The problems, of course, are completely different. The government did not implement all those promised total measures that should have resulted in the economic development of Croatia and that is why Croatia is economic at this time where the Labour Act is and it will not, unfortunately, fix any changes to the Labour Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72116	The replica matches the esteemed Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72117	Comrade Reiner, I am more optimistic than you and I am firmly convinced that the ruling will remain consistent in seeking consensus since apparently with the unions they do not want it, and with us they cannot... achieve that consensus to seek it in a referendum on the draft labour law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72118	A new replica and a respected Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You focused most of your exposure on the explanation that all Croatian entrepreneurs, businessmen, farmers get or get from this country and you want to create an impression, as I understand it, that indeed Croatia's country of entrepreneurship, well-being and so desirable for investors, for investment and for development and entrepreneurship and craftsmanship that this is the only thing that entrepreneurs and businessmen cannot understand. In fact, you two obviously have such an agenda together, and obviously today when you speak and present this about the Labour Act that your whole focus will be that it is all your fault that this Croatian economicist, who, along with this policy, has robbed the Croatian state. I don't just know why we don't see any more serious investment in Croatia in the last two years, why there are tens of thousands of declines in long-term crafts, why thousands of OPGs have gone missing, why thousands of entrepreneurs either leave their entrepreneurial activities or leave this country so desirable for the development of entrepreneurship and why 70,000 people have lost their jobs right in the private sector. You didn't answer that and you didn't share that information. And you presented one completely incorrect fact, that the largest part of Croatia's contract is for a certain time. It's simply not true, that people will confirm from the ministry that has that data. I think that over 90% of the contract is currently on indefinitely, but the truth is that most of the contract for first-time employment happens at a certain time. So it's a twist of facts and it's just not like that and also in the private sector prevailing contracts indefinitely and at this point. Check that information and then come out with the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72120	The replica matches the esteemed Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72121	Dear colleague, all I've stated is that the state has been helping private investors and employers is correct. You didn't challenge that, so yes. If that was enough, it could be more, it needed more, it was a matter of discussion. And I didn't accuse the employers of stealing the state, but on that basis I made a clear request, and you as a former minister would have to know, especially because of the resources you covered, that in the regulated states every government asks employers to do so and that I was talking about this social responsibility and that when deciding to fire a particular number of people, it must be in a way that the state of social aspect can accept it because it's a burden for the state. If you do not know why there are no more investments in Croatia as a former minister, I am sorry but the other day I saw that people employers, investors regret that there is no electricity in the entrepreneurship zone, that every minute they run out of electricity so they can't develop production, that those who process honey have a problem because honey producers are waiting for six months to be enrolled in some ministry register, that they wait six months for banal permits and just when they bring it all in, they come out, then the references tell them that in the meantime the change and the law have to re-provide half of these permits in accordance with the new law. For example, a large number of employers warned. And when I was talking about contracts for a certain time, I was clear, talking about the private sector, and I stressed that in the public sector, the state service and public enterprises are dominated by contracts indefinitely.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72122	The last replica, the esteemed Damir Roman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72123	Dear colleague Lesar, you referred to one detail in the debate that I had to react to, which is the most intelligent policy. So you touched on the fact that the proposal for a new law is neither stimulating to women nor to mothers at all. Let me remind you that you are still coming from a region where the business climate is much better than where I come from, and that is Slavonia. There's women, there's mothers, there's servants, there's maids, there's cooks, they're eager to work, but there's someone to pay them. They are ready to go out and work both on Sundays and on a day off and on holidays, but the problem is that these women, these mothers, these cashiers don't get paid for that work. For this very reason, this law is for the first time seriously affected by the gray economy, working on black and trying to sort it out in a certain way. I ask you to really look at the situation at the level of the entire country, not just from the part where we come from. I could always mention only Slavonia in my discussions and replicas, but I don't, I see the state as one whole environment. I repeat, cashiers, clerks, maids, cooks in Slavonia want to work both on a day and Sunday, only asking them to be paid fairly for their work, for honest work, and that has been the biggest problem so far, employers have not done so.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72124	The replica matches the esteemed Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72125	I did not mention or use words stimulating or destimulating in terms of natal politics but also warned that the schedule of working time also affects the quality of family life, especially in the case of employees of women, and also affects the decision of young families in particular on the first child. I spoke not of examples of a tight community in the territory of the Republic of Croatia but of the whole. I agree with you, not just women, not just young people, everyone will accept access to honest work, a fair salary paid for that job. But it's not like that. Because these women and these employees, these workers don't work that fund hours that they're signed on, but they do and almost double that. They don't just work on Sundays for those families who are without children or with adults, but those who have nowhere to go with their children on Sundays and Saturdays. And I said the state didn't develop accompanying social services like those countries that make such shifts in the flexibility of the labour market to public transport. How people who work when there's no public transport, and he's been suspended ten or fifteen years ago, come to work, have a new cost of travel that no longer refunds to anyone in the private sector. So that's the aspect we have to see that those miserable salaries they get go for babysitting and travel expenses. And if they have half their salary, they're very happy and happy. This is how the Labour Act is read and the labour market is seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72126	I thank Dragutin Lesar and invite the respected Josip Salapic to introduce us to the positions of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72127	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal of the Labour Act or the first reading of the Labour Act by us today should not have been the subject of this debate primarily because of the sensitivity of life in Croatia. I don't need to answer briefly to Mr. Lesar why I replicated what Mr. Lesar said was demagogy about the referendum. So I wanted to remind Mr. Minister and Government that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in Article 184 paragraph 3 of the first reading, the legislator may withdraw the bill until the debate is concluded. With my good intentions, I wanted to save the Croatian state 50 million kuna for an unnecessary referendum. Because we're 100% sure that everyone who would go, if we asked them if you were up to this kind of labour law or against everyone would be against it. So we need to think about that the referendum should be the right for direct democracy and people's decision-making but with purpose and purpose, but here unnecessary spending can avoid the ruling coalition that we think would be wise and wise not to wait for the end of the debate but to withdraw this for one single reason and that is dialogue, the conversation with those most concerned and these are workers. You can't get paid by a working person, the one who's on the Bureau as unemployed, the one who's having a hard time living in Croatia today, and let's face it, that's the truth, that's how we can't say that this is the protection of workers' rights. What we all need to agree on, and unfortunately this situation has taken place, I will speak a little more politically than as a lawyer. But with good intentions, I will make my contribution to what you have proposed as a bill in the first reading. What all of you need to be reminded of, which is that you promised a commitment to the rights of workers to the Croatian people after you received the trust after the election. And it's a little crazy, I'd say even rude and irresponsible to say someone's lying. It wasn't us, they were, we didn't know, someone was stealing, we're not stealing, we're honest, we're like this, we're like this. No one can judge that your government is the most successful government because that's not the case. That should be said by someone else, and that other should be the Croatian people, the citizens who follow your work. It's been two years. You had a convention that I would rather call a party on Saturday, where there was a lot of laughter, optimism about something that really has no purpose, which is that those messages that are spoken are not real and have no real contact with the workers and the Labour Act. And I also welcome the fact that Mrs. Zgrebec spoke for your club, because she has what it takes and that's reality and calmness. And it should be returned primarily without insulting anyone personally in those parties and coalitions that take over. Because if someone signs something, and it concerns the rights of the workers, when it is in opposition, and it comes to power and says that he is sorry that he signed it because he shouldn't have thought, then that's the person, and that's the prime minister of our government, the government of your majority that you chose honestly, the most honest one shouldn't have the confidence of the citizens, but that's the opinion of us who are currently in opposition. You have brought us to the wall with such a bill that in a debate that should be constructive we must be against for one single reason why we do not want to salt the wounds of those who live hard in Croatia today. You had the opportunity, Mr. Minister, from the 11th month of last year until today to show good will and invite everyone to the table, and even those you think I can't contribute to the quality of your work, that's your personal assessment. But if you had tried to at least humanly transfer responsibility for the national problem, which is a great unemployment and a difficult situation in the economy to all parties, you would see who would have responded to you, who would have come and who would have said what was useful that would have contributed to the quality of the Labour Law. But that didn't happen. And that constant calling for peace, peace, peace from here, and we're currently having protests on the street, we'll unfortunately have more and more of that. Because people, people are unhappy with your politics. You have no real contact with reality. Your prime minister, when it comes to the situation in Croatia, said and gave a message to your ministers, to you, I don't know who you can't go to amongst people, to return what you may have lost, and that's the heart of good intentions from good change. You can't say it wasn't said. It's a message from your meeting. So the heart of good change is to understand those who find it difficult, and it is certainly the most difficult for those who do not work, for those who do not receive wages and for those who have difficulty living. But let's face it, the truth is that the law needs to be revised, that there is a need to make a comprehensive change of working legislation, but above all by protecting the interests of those workers who work fairly and there is no figure in their pocket. There are systems primarily of state, where there are too many employees and that some workers do not do their job fairly. The law should make it possible for one who does not do his job in accordance with the obligations of the Labour Act to be fired but should also be prevented by law from being able to allow for the dismissal that is illegal, to protect workers in that work so that those who work get paid for their work and those who do not work to leave the system. Also, every serious government so that every serious and opposition that gives the public notice that they want to come to power needs to be said reasonably, we will have to not run from our people and people but to make a full reform of the Republic of Croatia and public administration and employees in public services but local ones. We're in favour of that, it's been a while, in the 1990s, of creating a Croatian state to finally see how much money was spent in a territorial structure of Croatia that had this national enthusiasm of the 1990s, 91st when we created a state but imagine how many people were employed in jobs in a large number of municipalities, 460s and more cities, the county, how much money from the state register flows into these jobs where people honestly and realistically have nothing to do. These are some painful messages but the painful truth for our country that we will have to together responsibly promise that what we are saying today is what we are thinking tomorrow. Then you will restore trust in politics, trust in social partners, return what is and the message you said today but it has not been realized and it is a dialogue with all who want to participate in good intentions, which is to protect the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What happened today is we believe that the political blow that you have done to yourself above all, your Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic who could yesterday and you had the Club of Representatives of your party to say that this is being withdrawn for the sake of the talks, because the situation in Croatia is out there, among people who are normal, honest, so open that everyone in one general depression is in pessimism because there is no hope for a better life in our country and two years has passed since you took power. It would have been fair and fair if you had said what you had come across in this year, and you haven't ruled in Croatia for so long, and you haven't ruled in Croatia for so long, you've had twice a chance, so it would have been fair to say, yes, it's hard for us, we haven't succeeded in our reforms because of that and that. It is a growing number of unemployed, unfortunately, but you can't say that everything is beautiful, wonderful and wonderful, that everything goes to the point of getting trust in another term, and this Labour Act is a bible for all workers and employees and perhaps an opportunity for a new start to someone who doesn't work today, and therefore it's not good that, without a reasonable reason, you first maneuvered everything in the Croatian Parliament when it comes to debate or not, but what you need to listen to is the voice of the people and those who were in front of the Croatian Parliament today or on the streets. If you tried to change the name of the law in this way, one letter, then you were wrong because you didn't listen to what people think. And why don't you go amongst the people and give your heart back to the good changes. That doesn't make any sense to me. Furthermore, you said today that you called for dialogue several times. You said this law protects workers. We believe that the bill hides certain traps and those traps should be prevented if you are truly in good interest first of all to return to the table and then to be honest and realistic when to look at what unions suggest and social partners, it is also necessary to say that it is true that the system needs to be revised but that it should be put into balance and employers and those we hope that it will be a larger number, and today it is small that in the private sector employs people, giving wages in a difficult way because it is much harder to be on the private market, on the labour market when you are with a private person or on another market when you are on the state budget. Protecting and saying that this is the Law to preserve jobs, preserving jobs is a noble intention but preserving jobs should have a basis, a basis in where these people work, what they do, in which systems, how, why and in what way and whether they pay for their fair and just work. What is not good for us, the proposed degmentation of the law, or the tendency to spread more and more existing solutions to several laws and not to one of the central main laws, the Labour Act, is, above all, challenging legal security or increasing legal uncertainty and creating a riot in the existing forest of disorder. We saw the Law of Representativeship, where in an indirect way it wanted to affect the Labour Act. In our opinion, we have to strive or at least we should strive for you who are currently ruling, you have a ruling majority on the adoption of a law that will be in one, so to avoid further fragmentation of the law and the spread of regulations into more laws than bring one concrete and quality law that will have the purpose of truly preserving all those labour rights that are our constitutional and fundamental value until it returns to where it belongs, you will not be able to do so. As for working through temporary employment agencies and sending workers to such jobs, we believe and there is a potential danger that this will go to the expense of workers and in favour of further decline to living standard in Croatia because it is possible that the solutions that will result in the destruction of the labour price will have that maneuvering space that the labour price will not be the same for all. So there is a potential danger that this will first of all burden the worker and his salary and what you and your government should have sought and that is to reduce the tax press and tax burdens at the labour price. The reduction of tax premiums and tax burdens at the labour price would greatly contribute to the quality of work, as well as the quality and life of workers, of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This today's way of performing both unions and social partners here in the Croatian Parliament, expressing justifiable dissatisfaction in front of the Croatian Parliament, it should not be taken as a call for revolution, but a call for revolution for what is happening and I will repeat what your president said and I am sure that he could have prevented this. He is, however, a person who has been educated abroad, who has lived a different life than most of us are here and who, as a diplomat, should have more civil sensitivity, which is that no one would blame him for being honest and taking some steps at the beginning of his term of office that might be insane but justifiable. If there were then a reduction in the salaries of officials, high government officials and 30%, 40, so who would blame him because he took power when Croatia was already in the economic crisis, but this dissection of every little bit, from doctors, from defence pensions, from teachers, from scientists to take money from the budget of their own university incomes and not from the back of science, we seek excellence that should increase jobs in the economy, and science and the economy are connected and these are your jobs. So what does a scientist who is now doing, perhaps up to 6, 7, 8 p.m. and has double classes, various university classes, speak English and French, teach our students and students some kind of European law and legal gain of the EU. So who's crazy working for someone not to pay for it? And what do you think will happen? It will not be a consequence that own income will be left in the state register that will provide jobs, but science will fall by 5 steps lower and those who need to learn something, and not stupid will not have that opportunity. There is no money, there will be less work and less contribution to science, and that is the only truth, and we seek perfection, excellence, we seek the European country. What in this law, once again rationally, you needed to be different and no one would object to you, you should have, no matter what you might think that someone would say no to you, invited everyone. Once again, 11 months, it's February, the prime minister has only met with the unions twice, and it's all said at your rally, and those are the words of the prime minister, we don't like pulsism, shallow emotions followed by anger. There are results, there will be other results, we've chosen the hard way, but walk upright, don't crawl. If skating is a dialogue and a conversation with everyone, then it is a missed policy, and then it is something that you are an opposition to in the Croatian Parliament, and I think that some opposition should also be the need to be constructive, that it should contribute to the quality of the laws we bring and to the benefit of those who should live from this work. The truth is next, and this is respected Vice President Zgrebec said, and I greatly appreciate what she said today, that there is a possibility that the parliamentary majority would refuse some law proposed by the government. I believe, and I am sure that, in the history of the Croatian state, this has not happened since independence. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, until we change the system of parliamentaryism of the Croatian Parliament, the way the government, the prime minister, the president of the parties function, until we change the powers of the President of the Republic, if you will, we will do nothing, all of us will consider us to be unserious, irresponsible to what we should do. We will not support this because we think it is not good for workers, for all those who work and who do not get paid and who are waiting for work in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72128	Thank you. Replica's 12, we won't be able to absorb them all until the break, but we'll hear something. First came the esteemed Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Salapic, we often and very, very often agree, but this time not exactly in some parts of your speech. First of all, I'm going to start by your qualification of Saturday's SDP rally, and you said that it was all about laughter and optimism. My impression was different, that it was one chamber atmosphere, and the fact that the finance minister, the most popular person in the government, was sitting in the back row and actually picking up the whole atmosphere and all the comments from it together, and the moment we bring the budget rebalancing that is still here, this week won't even be on the agenda. You mentioned a referendum, that it would be good if this law changed in a referendum. I think it would be very bad for us to go the way the laws change in the referendum because then we won't need the government either, but we won't need Parliament either, so the laws should be passed in the Croatian Parliament, which should be proposed by the Government, should be passed by the majority. About such important laws should seek consensus if possible. But I think you've mentioned something else very well, from the whole of the exposure, it's visible, consistency of politics and politicians. So, when you're in opposition, you have to say what will wait for you if you come to power because if you speak to one in opposition, the other in power, or vice versa, one while you're in power, and then the other completely when you're in opposition, one day you get caught up, absolutely like a boomerang. And finally, I remind you that when we withdrew the Labour Law in 2010 that a sufficient number of signatures were collected for the referendum, that we then signed a union agreement on this, if I remember well that the referendum nevertheless, i.e. to set out on the road to being held together with the EU referendum, but that did not happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72130	The replica corresponds to Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72131	Dear Mrs. Kosor, we don't have to agree on everything, it's human, sometimes we have to think differently, it's important that our intentions are the same. I did not mean to offend my fellow ruling coalition when I mentioned that laugh and the name I gave, it was merely a conveyed meaning of what was said there, and it was said that everything in Croatia was nice and one statement by the Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister was that this was a failed government, but the most successful in Croatia's history. Yes, Mr. Greek said that 74 billion investments will come this year, no one is trying to stop him from saying that, and what if that doesn't happen? Where's that credibility? Optimism is positive, but real optimism. I just called for reason and I said it would be much more honest and humane to say what happened two years ago, that we came to that and that we couldn't do it anymore, that we'd finally have to do what you were supposed to do at the beginning of your term. There has been no message that we have come to the wall, that the economic crisis is growing, that the deficit is growing, that there is an increasing number of unemployed, that even those measures that have been for temporary employment for 1600 kuna are positive, we have supported it, so they cannot be considered globally for all unemployed because unfortunately, from day to day, the number of unemployed is growing. So, I just suggested you be realistic. It's going, it's not going, we can, we can't. But I've given an emphasis on the need for dialogue and that everyone can say what they think. If anyone's offended by it, it's a matter of each of us personally, as he understands. What happened there happened was that in the middle of our mandate, when protests are on the streets, when social unrest is getting closer, there is talk of honey and milk in Croatia as if everything was wonderful and great, and we see the forecasts of both the international community and the European Commission, which is asking us for excessive deficits to take certain steps, that nothing is good. And it was actually a message in the debate, a call to dialogue, nothing malicious.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72132	We still have time to hear the replica of the esteemed Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72133	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Salapic, first of all, I should thank you on behalf of the SDP for advertising the SDP convention last year, and now I listen to you like this, and then I'm thinking to myself, it's not like you were there when you said in detail what was going on. But unfortunately, I'm sorry, and I'm going to say in my debate on behalf of the club you can say anything you want but I'm sorry that from your debate there's nothing concrete about the proposed Labour Act and what it is in that law that you disagree with and what it is where you think what article of the law is that so humiliating the rights of workers and all the other criticisms that are being heard. You keep repeating the call for dialogue, call for consensus, dialogue, dialogue, dialogue. This bill has been negotiated for more than a year. Somewhere in the 11th month, one party in this case, the unions went and left those negotiations and the ultimately firm, and we all talked on behalf of our clubs with all representatives of the union centres, they don't want to step down. Even those remarks that have discussed these remarks are not possible, they do not want a constructive solution. And I'm going to say one more thing, there was a protest here today at Mark's square, a big wall was set up to make it sound, and we're all so informed about what the bill means by MPs, constituencies, maybe individual debates. As far as I know, at 11:19 minutes before the club debate started in the first place, everyone split up nicely. They didn't care to hear what even the club representatives thought about the Labour Act. So much for being ready for dialogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72134	Time. The replica corresponds to Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72135	Madam representative, first of all, I respect that you can understand how you want what I'm saying. I was also talking about the law, I was talking about... certain legal norms, this is the first reading of the law, I was talking about the Agency for Temporary Employment, I was talking about the protection of workers' rights and possible legal uncertainty because of certain solutions, but obviously only one thought touched you, and that's that I was talking about your party president and the government in my debate. So where did we get the information? So, Mrs. Sobol, every responsible politician doesn't cool his feet at home on Saturdays, but follow what's going on in the country. You had a convention where you were supposed to give key messages to the public, and that if it bothers you personally when someone calls your party president who used to say to himself that the statesman who is responsible, to the dialogue, I see no reason for your anxiety that this is an evil intention. It is a very good intention Mrs. Sobol is that if Mr. Milanovic wanted to talk to his people then he would go peacefully to Vukovar, he would go to doctors, he would not only meet with unionists twice and avoid going out on the street. So if it's all so beautiful and wonderful and you see some evil intention in my debate why today based on your president's recommendation, don't go out among people if it's what you're saying? My intention towards you was absolutely not malicious but merely a call for dialogue. And why didn't I specifically talk about the articles of the law? Well, I'm not crazy, for one reason. No partners support, no employers' support, no people's support. So who would argue here, make a contribution to you, the quality of your law when it's all upside down. Well, that's true. You can be mad by tomorrow. I don't care at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72136	I'm setting a break until 3:00. Bon appetit. It's 13,29 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72137	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We're moving on with the replicas. Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72138	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Salapic, here, I'll try to replicate now that it's past the break, so maybe we forgot. What you said in the introduction of your statement, you would speak as a politician, not as a lawyer. Personally I think, I'm sorry, you better say as a lawyer, and less as a politician because of everything you've said, but it's not the subject of my replica, but I'm sure as a lawyer you know that, I'm not a lawyer, to point out right now, that labour law belongs to one of the more complex decisions of law and that working relationships are both formal and indeed one of the complex issues of national policy and determine rights from the economic and social structure of the nation and they are the foundations of another generation of human rights. Here in the law, you said it yourself, there are certain good provisions, there are those that you personally disagree with, and your club, and I think it would be better if you had directed your debate in that direction because this is the first reading, and I particularly disagree with the part where you warned the minister that it was the one who avoided dialogue, which is not true, the minister said it here and called for dialogue today. The problem is then, you cannot establish a dialogue with someone who will not and who refuses to discuss it. And today's debate is to discuss this subject and that all the things that aren't good, and probably there are in this law, try to change them for the better. And I just wanted one more part, when you are, I don't think that's right when you said that there are a lot of municipalities in Croatia where people have nothing to do. Personally, I believe that every municipality in the Republic of Croatia has accomplished its task from the moment of its establishment to today. The fact that some of the municipalities because of the laws that exist, you are in your club seeking decentralisation, constitutional changes are going, we are talking about regionalisation, and it is not good that you as a club from regionalization, decentralisation are extracting what is right for you at the moment, and you are neglecting everything else. I think that, therefore, the systems of approach, I say those municipalities have fulfilled their task, in which people have worked, of course, as much as they could with those means they had, and in the future we will see how things will continue to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72139	Replication response, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72140	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, you've been pulled out in your replica for what you thought you should pull. I disagree with you. We're a regional party, but we're national awareness, you understand? And I said in the context of not insulting any municipality or mayor or mayor or mayor, that it was time to do a review of how the system of local administration and self-government works and how much resources from the state budget must be channelled to the units of local self-government in order for them to survive at all. So everyone loves their community, their city, their local board, their place of residence, but it has proved in certain places that the municipality does not have or does not even have any functionality because all administrative and other activities are performed in the centres as it used to be. There is a municipality that can be a municipality still, but will, should the chiefs and those who work there be volunteers and if you will give money from the state budget just so that someone gets paid, to have an official car, driver, secretary, head of the office who can't issue anything except those most minimal certificates and permits, and for everything else goes to a bigger city or centre, we have to be aware regardless, I just said it on purpose, regardless of whose party the head comes from, we need to be aware that in that system big money is spent from the state budget. That's the part where you looked back. As for the necessary reforms of labour legislation, I did not speak to myself, I consulted with some departments of labour and social law at the Faculty of Law in Croatia and took what I thought should be highlighted in the debate. It was my political assessment, and all of what we're doing, we're doing as politicians. We don't do this as people who do something else, we do politics and consciously, and I'm responsible for saying what I think it is, and I'm going to be the first to stand up for it. In our county, the government belongs to our party, that such a system is abolished, that regions are introduced into the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72141	Boris Kovacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72142	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Representative, young sir, you almost pissed me off. Excuse me. [[Don't talk young or old, pal.]] Mr. Representative, you almost pissed me off in your argument when you called my party's party meeting. I tend to listen very carefully to you, too, but more so, at least so far, you've always embossed one academic restraint, rhetoric, and I've had it all worked out for me, and here I was very careful. And so much more that I could now replicate a lot of things that you said in your debate, yet this kind of hit me. Believe me, so far absolutely at all the conventions I've been present with, the '90 SDP conventions. until this last one. Please nice, it's not a pity, it's a pride. And I'll also tell you that this kind of serious atmosphere that was now ruled at that convention rarely seen and you call it a party. Maybe you've been to some similar gatherings, similar conventions, you've changed a few parties, maybe there's been a party, I assure you there's never been, especially not now at this really serious moment. And so here I was, feeling this little hurt, almost ashamed after that yours, I'd say, maybe it's irresponsible, I'm not going to say an unthinkable term of such a serious combination with a very serious topic where speakers gave themselves a lot of tones that were in agreement with the seriousness of the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72143	Reply to the replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72144	Here I am not going to give an assessment of the old bride, I'll tell the honourable Mr. Representative. I didn't say party but I said it looked like a party because Mrs. Pusic and Mr. Milanovic all the time in a big smile from ear to ear talking about serious topics seemed a little unserious. And believe me when someone says at a difficult moment that this is the most successful government it should say someone else rather than someone for itself. If I wanted to offend someone, I'd say drunk, but I didn't say it, but I followed the messages well, and I made an effort to write down the statements that were made there. For me, it is unserious if someone is the Deputy Prime Minister and at a crucial moment for Croatia does not want to admit that there are difficulties and to tell himself that this is one of the most successful governments in the history of the Republic of Croatia. The successes of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are assessed in the elections and citizens, i.e. the people of the Republic of Croatia, all citizens assess who is successful and who is unsuccessful. I am personally and allow that my own assessment expected that at your convention only an intelligent person could understand if someone wanted to compare something that was inappropriate for me and that was a laugh at your convention not you but certain colleagues. I said there are wonderful people among you who understand the situation first and foremost as humans. Your prime minister is educated abroad, he's a diplomat, speaks several languages and his childhood, allow and some of us are not equal. When you live in poverty and you live with 1,000 or 1500 kunas rarely how can you understand someone who is without enough anger at it, God forbid we can all be so educated and so written, speak several languages, I have seen it as a social insensitivity and as an unreal misunderstanding of a people who find it difficult. It has nothing to do with the insult, that I wanted to offend, I could have used a completely different syntagma, but I well assessed what I should have said as a politician and a responsible person. So you have no reason to insult yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72145	Let's drop the conventions and get back to the law. Vanya Posavac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72146	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear fellow Salapic. So here I am going to refer to the law, you said one sentence that I have to comment on, you said, the people are on the street. The people are on the street but I wonder which people, under whose leadership, were primarily unions employed by state and public services. I'd like to hear what they're thinking, and I see it on the portals and over Facebook and Twitter that the private sector workers are commenting on, so you'll see that they express mainly, not 100%, but mostly a very large dissatisfaction with such a way both yesterday and today's protest. In fact, even when we're looking at data yesterday from 12 to 14 hours they're very, you could say they're not exactly the right information because we don't have the data that are all schools, they're just emphasising Karlovac and Osijek, what about the others. I'm sorry that the media and I didn't really see it yesterday I watched both the third diary and the shows of people working in the private sector haven't asked what they think about the unions, what they think about this law and you'll see that maybe some of the remarks have had the law in the first reading and some of my colleague Dragica Zgrebec said that some things will actually be discussed by the second reading. Also, unions are still invited to dialogue, called by a colleague. And I also have to tell you about the dialogue, when we had the thematic session, it was all on their side except the honor of two union representatives other than the dialogue, it was not a dialogue that was shouting and screaming.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72147	Reply to the replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72148	Dear colleagues, I would always be careful in assessing what the definition of the people is. If yesterday there were about 270 thousand people on the alert strike, that's already enough indicator. As for the amendments to the Labour Law and its needs, I also highlighted the private sector in my debate. But let me know from the experiences I know that some private employers who employ 100 and more workers have to wait one month for certain ministers from your government to get in touch at all. And it happens in Croatia. I also personally worked in a company that has 10,000 and 800 employees and workers who were primarily on the state budget, that is, a state-owned company where there was a need for certain changes in labour rights, because let the interests represented by unions on the one hand that are justified and represent workers, on the other hand, the interests represented by employers and they are diametrically opposite of each other, which is democracy and it is normal for employers to support the employers sector and labour unions. I told everyone at the table together and especially to highlight the difficult situation in the private sector. It is precisely in this Law that the Agency for Temporary Employment is in danger of falling the price on the labour market while increasing tax premiums on work and on workers’ salaries are burdened directly by workers. And let me do something else, taking money, it has to do with work, from the college's own income register, I started working as a science recruit with 5 grand, 4 and something, and 30% paid us college on our salaries because we were burdened not with 100 students but 200 and 300 on exams, lectures for extraordinary students, legal clinics, university follow-up, election classes. And I don't care what it's gonna be... and what money will be saved if colleges stop being productive and work hard enough and good enough for their students. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is a danger of not saving, but a lack of quality of Croatian science, which is what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72149	Damir Tomic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72150	Thank you very much. I have to admit, and I was just as angry as my colleague Kovacic, but the anger went a little bit because we had a long break, so fortunately I wrote down some things that made me angry. First of all, I was surprised by my colleague Salapic for taking over the rhetoric of the party he entered. He mentioned the national enthusiasm of the '90s, under the auspices of the national enthusiasm of the '90s, the biggest robbery in Croatian history took place. I wish my colleague had mentioned it. Furthermore, he mentioned the political blow that we did to ourselves, and I'll say no, we're responsible for power. We can also be courting workers, adding to all the structures of society, but this Labour Act is only part of a strategy that this government has to pull out of a crisis where we're 20 years of bad policy. Also, counterpart Salapic mentioned that he found it funny that someone at the SDP convention said this was the most successful government. Yes, this is the most successful government. There are countless indicators, I'll only give you one. IPA has withdrawn 823.9m euros in these two years, which is 114% more than the former government did in its four years. Not to mention the Swiss and bank strikes we gave the former government cooked up. Let me mention the transportation of high school students that this government has provided to everyone, to mention free schooling to everyone who is regular and good students, as far as college and money are concerned. You mentioned your college. I never thought it fair that colleges from their own resources pay 40%. That's what the cleaning lady in law and economy got. Which is why she was cleaning up a bigger square than a cleaning lady on a teacher's or philosophical level. That's not fair. And finally, I have to tell you, what is the credibility when you talk about anything and you do not recognise the decisions of the Croatian court? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72151	Replication response, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72152	First of all, my dear colleague, whether I confess or not to recognise the decision of Croatian courts, this will be the case in which you were likely to say the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, and then the European Court of Human Rights, because we are a member of the European Union country and any one who considers that his fundamental human right can protect his right in Croatian courts. And I support anyone looking for protection based on their legitimate demands. I was surprised by your replica and there was a break an hour and a half, there was lunch, there was probably a lot to say in the meantime. You see, rhetoric is chosen the way we are. I'm a good judge of how to speak. I didn't want to offend any colleagues in the Croatian Parliament from your ruling coalition, but I'm sure your party president, the prime minister, had enough time and enough to have any wisdom, I said that you gave yourself a political blow, so yes. You know why, you could have prevented it in a way that you just showed, the delay in the debate of this law wouldn't have changed anything at this point towards those who lost their jobs today, but would have contributed to trying to pass a law that would have the consensus of all social partners, employers and those who do, and also those who don't, if you want the best. And what I think is most honest, I was only honest, when it comes to the national interests of the Republic of Croatia then responsibility should be transferred to everything because if you are not sure or perhaps you are, I am not, that your government will continue to lead this country because I am not giving exclusive rights to anyone, or even out of opposition to promise something that is not realistic because it has proved insane. And your president, the prime minister, said in 2010, he signed one, and today he signed another. Some of them signed a lot of stuff, so they played one thing at night, and the next morning something else. Now that casts credibility on politics, politicians and the Croatian Parliament and why this parliamentaryism when we know how it works, and we are not, you are not aware and ready to admit it. Well, that's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72153	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72154	Thank you. Comrade Salapic, it's been an hour and a half of this break, so I've lost a bit of a thread, but I'll tell you. In fact, Minister Pusic must have mocked herself and her government when she declared the government the most successful government, and the people were the poorest people in three points since the beginning of the Croatian state. Even in wartime, the standard was better than it was today. This is also understandable when we have the head of the government of a liberal conservative or probably a tough liberal as he might have wanted to say Croatian. So inventing internal enemies from peasants, workers, fishermen, doctors, teachers, I guess they're opposed to this Labour Act. It turns out that the government, according to the foreign minister who leveled the blame, is the Serbian and Croatian authorities of the '90s, so for events, which will still be discussed in this House. I guess that's why she's the most successful. And today we're listening on the radio, this morning, when a professor of labour legislation, and in relation to a single widow who was held by the court in Croatia, and didn't extradite him to Germany, defends him in this way almost the same way as the minister defends this Labour Act, and I don't know in what way, but only later, it became clear to me and why.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72155	Replication response, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72156	Dear counterpart Grubisic, I deliberately mentioned Mrs Pusic because I think she was completely unrealistic in her statement when she estimated the government's success. I think the success of every government should be that it is supported by at least most citizens who have given their trust in the elections. We are aware that Plan 21, which was like some kind of new political platform on which the coalition got power completely changed or we can say completely disappeared. And what has been an emphasis on this Labour Act, however, none of us, if we are to be honest, is against going into the reform of labour legislation that is necessary in view of the circumstances in which we live, given the responsibility we have as a Member State of the European Union, the adoption of a directive of common law and in this area, but you should allow it because I do not know why this is prohibited, if there is a possibility of abuse and there is a possibility in... legal institutes that are, they need to be regulated and settled and it is true that this is discussed in the Croatian Parliament. If the departments of labour and social law where experts are slightly divided around some institutes, where there are possible emphasis on individual institutes that need to be aligned with to prevent any abuse. Why not fire someone who's unemployed and doesn't do anything, but why fire someone who doesn't deserve it? So in that section we should protect a working worker, and the unemployed should be punished because someone is waiting for work at home with both colleges and without colleges and with four children and with five and with loans and no credit and all kinds of life situations. Here is the emphasis on the lack of dialogue. And I repeat, none of you three, nor your ministers, nor your associates consider these enemies number one. You're just obliged to represent your government's policy. But if you were ministers or Prime Minister Milanovic invited all of us yesterday and whoever he thought he should call, he could have prevented the voice of the people that took place in Zagreb today in Mark's square. And who guarantees if this condition continues, the misunderstanding that it will be in other cities. Who can guarantee that? No one. That's what we're afraid of.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72157	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72158	You dedicated a good part of your discussion to the SDP convention. In my case, unlike some other colleagues, it was a pleasure to say that you were in such one, and at a time when we were bombed every day by a lot of information that caused your attention, and I'm very glad. You speak in your debate about how workers really need to have a salary that should be the goal. And that is why it should be agreed, however, that your finding should also be complemented, that this bill, which is precisely what it is, tends and comes to investment, to bring those who will hire and not those who will fire workers. Let's remember when we introduced the crime of default, that was still a long time ago in 2003. That's when HDZ wouldn't vote for the law. It's the famous 2003 Penal Code novel. When we came to the opportunity of non-payment of wages, it became a felony. We have had a situation to pay those who do not work, and those who work do not receive wages. But without employment, no investment, no job, no pay. There's nothing. Therefore, what this bill also needs to concentrate our debate is precisely that this flexibility of working time distribution is done so that the employer is obliged, that there is evidence that these workers have been working since they are working overtime today. And private sector workers are weakened. There's no union life there. And that's why intensity is, we also need to talk to the unions, because unions need to be solid with those and help those who are unionally organised especially in the private sector. It is our joint work, that in this conflict if there can be no dialogue between work and capital be at...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72159	Thank you. Reply to the replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72160	And you... knows what he's saying at least when it comes to that part of law, justice, fundamental human rights, and together we've worked on it many times. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] But I'm also sure on the basis of your experience that you know very well how politics and political power work. Well, I wouldn't say now that you have to agree with me, but if 2010 is the prime minister of the current, and then the president of the opposition and club in the Assembly signed a request that is very similar to these demands they have today and then they say here in the Croatian Parliament that he is sorry that he did it because he didn't evaluate it well. There is a policy behind all the good intentions of each government, and a certain policy unfortunately through the tradition of Croatian statehood and politics is generally seen through those who lead the policy. It's in your case the president of your party and government. And I followed your convention closely for one reason only to see if a healthy human message from your president would finally come. And I'm sure of it, and you don't have to say that in the mass of situations that have needlessly happened in Croatia in the past year, there's only been one social dialogue, one reasonable human attitude to prevent a lot of things where he's been giving himself political blows from this Labour Act, from the Perkovic case, from defenders, from Vukovar, and even if he was well-intentioned and that he had this sensitivity, there would be no need to collect signatures around bilingual inscriptions in the town of Vukovar. It's about the personality of one person, it's about a certain fear of him for himself and his ego that he can't control, and everything else is politics, and I don't doubt your good intentions for the private sector or the state sector or for the workers. I'm sure of your well-meaning towards the common worker and the man. I don't doubt that for a moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72161	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72162	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. counterpart Salapic, you have in fact expressed a surprise that the prime minister who sends out the party's message that he should go amongst the people did not find the strength to gather partners around social dialogue. And I ask you a question do you really believe in the honesty of such words of a man who on the one hand Mark's square goes to the other building in an official escort car, instead of walking for a minute and a half across the street. It's a message that's been given, and that's the credibility of the words being made public like this. So, I don't believe that message of his, because if he wanted to, he would surely gather social partners and negotiate, negotiate until we reach a common solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72163	Replication response, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72164	Thank you, colleague Hrg. I also heard your statement the other day that you personally witnessed it, and that only says that he is aware that he has made a mistake and is aware that he is leading Croatia in the wrong direction. These statements have been made lately where he argues with himself, where he explains for three days why he bought vehicles for state officials, for the Republic of Croatia, where he has a need to comment on what is the real price, which is excise duty, which is tax, which is not. This has nothing to do with the leadership of the state or the responsible statesman. It has more to do with some kind of day-to-day political joke where no one can understand it alive. And it's really about something that we need to change. The Croatian Parliament functions as a parliamentary, so the House of Representatives, where laws are passed in such a way that the Parliament can, under quotes, reject the law passed by the government. So what kind of representative of the ruling coalition dares to say that the law proposed by the government is not right. That's crazy for us. And while all of us together, so now the ruling have a chance to say that they are not guilty, that someone else is guilty, that others are lying, that others have robbed Croatia and so on, it will best be assessed by those who are unemployed today, those who are sitting at home and this is all followed up and think that no one else is normal anymore and that they are talking and talking to each other. The messages at the SDP Convention that anyone involved in politics was supposed to follow, are actually messages to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in which this government is experiencing their real life problems, and this looked like my own personal assessment and let the public not blame me if I was wrong, that it has to do with two planets. One planet is outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, and the other is real life and the problems of our citizens, and I am concerned about the future of politics in general because the credibility of the Croatian Parliament and of us here today who are discussing this is falling to the lowest levels, if there were dialogue, we would all be able to comment on exactly where there are potential dangers for our workers because good intentions are looking for a national consensus that is justifiable and expected when it comes to the crisis problems of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72165	Thank you very much. Forgive me for saying this, but perhaps our citizens would be more interested in discussing the law specifically than to analyze the character of a man here. A colleague of Nancy Tyrelli's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72166	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow Salapic, here I am going back to the Labour Act, which is here on our agenda. You talked about agency employment and the concern that such a proposal for agencies will reduce the shift of work, we don't need to talk about the future, we have a situation where we have to work through agencies and now in legislation, and all the time today we listen to how good it is that this law goes into two readings, precisely because we have to warn about some failures and mistakes, so here I would use it to ask the legislator so that it would be extremely good to have data on how many agencies in the Republic of Croatia, how many employees in those agencies are doing, and how much difference in the salaries of those workers who are employed in agencies compared to workers in the same workplace who do the same job in certain companies. If the ministry doesn't know, I can give them one, three agencies that operate and operate in Istria to warn them about them and here's to say that a certain tokarian machine is operated by a worker through an agency and is employed by a company worker, one in the first shift, one in the second shift, and that the pay gap is almost double. We are talking about this problem about agency work and it would be extremely good, useful for all of us together, especially for workers, that we have these data until the second reading so that we can qualityly compare them with the arguments to say what is good and what is not well related to agency work and the extension of agency work from two to three years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72167	Reply to the replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72168	I agree with you, MP Tyrelli, but with you vice presidents, don't blame the Parliament for having to discuss it, always come back to the subject when it comes to this law, the Labour Act. And imagine what a well-intentioned or over-intentioned politician or a lawyer who understands and understands what this is about while there are protests out there, while the people don't support what we're talking about today is standing down there or here and briefing something that no one alive will understand because the situation isn't like that for such a debate. Well, here's what I'm going to do for your rep on agency employment. I said that there is a risk that the labour price will fall and that there may be major irregularities, that the work in Croatia will become underpaid, that the standard of living of citizens or workers will fall, and that at the same time the increasing tax premiums on salaries are increasingly burdened by the individual worker. If we're going to improve the quality of work, the worker needs to be stimulated, so, okay. Agency employment but reducing the tax press to work if possible, but when you say something about the law, when you say something that's professional, when someone settles in because you're saying it, I never thought when I was in the judiciary for myself that my statement was the smartest. I've always liked to discuss that someone has an argumentable attitude to say something that's better and the one who suggested better should be given a hand. In this case, it is said that there is a lack of lawyer Tyrelli's dialogue and when there is no dialogue and whenever there is anyone outside and representatives of the union, workers' representatives, employers, we cannot pass quality laws unless we have the support of the public and the support of union partners and social partners and all others. There is a problem today why this debate looks like this and why I mentioned the president of the SDP and the prime minister personally because we know how politics works. You should say where the problem came from, I personally think it's there, in the Ban Courts, over the point, and here's the point, b is there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72169	Thank you. Miss twilight replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72170	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Salapic, with the greatest part of your debate, I agree. You spoke with argument, but fellow Salapic, you see it very difficult and the minister and I must say to the government at all understand this real world that is around us because whoever in his life was not supposed to get up at six, at seven or eight he shouldn't have done his full-time, who hasn't met in life with any of the problems but there's all the political similarities he's come to some positions, he can hardly understand what it means when he takes a lady who's 40 years of saving in a register of mutual assistance, money, she cries, to them it's not clear. You're a professional lawyer, and today when I said that you really cheat or deceive that it's really classic, the elements are classic acts of fraud, it's a criminal act, because how to interpret, simply in a pre-election campaign, all the passwords we've read, so here it is, among other things, an octopus underneath the peck and not in politics. Comrade Salapic, you are the very witnesses of this bureaucratic octopus who have even let the tentacles go huge, it is indestructible, it is indestructible. How to say and how we're going to export ideas, not brains, 25 thousand young people are hopeless, they have no hope anymore, they're leaving. They said a long life, not a long life. What are they doing to this people? Life on the line, and why? They're not in the real world, it's easy to go skiing every week for 3 days, it's easy to get on a plane, go from place A to place B and that government plane, not any one. It's easy to sit in a luxury car, let them turn around in their neighborhoods and neighborhoods and see what this means then.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72171	Thank you. Reply to the replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72172	... The twilight, it wouldn't be a problem even if the prime minister was driving, he could drive a Pontiac if he wanted to, should go rest if he got tired of real work, should be with his family and with his party members. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] You see when you repeat what's being said in public somewhere, so it's not just said for members of the SDP and the coalition, it's said for all of us. So, the prime minister is the president of all, so he is the prime minister of the Croatian government, he is the institution, as well as the president of the state, the president of the parliament. Then those statements must have a foothold in real life. If he is there in his address to his members and most of us, and he has told us that there are in a year and a half internal enemies, who are intolerant, intolerant, and who interfere with the work of this government, then the logical question is what are internal enemies. Are the enemies recognized in workers, in defenders, in doctors, in teachers, in teachers, where are these enemies? They're your enemies. If it's an enemy of the state, or government, then the Prime Minister is on the wrong track. That's why I said he better go than say what doesn't stand. Realistically, we can't beat up empty straw here and pretend that you sitting there are responsible for anything. You are representatives selected on the list of SDP, HNS, Kukuriku coalition and each of you is responsible for what he is doing here in the Croatian Parliament, all decisions are made in the Banski dvori, SDP, coalition and in the office of the Prime Minister. If he were reasonable, in my opinion, he would have called the minister yesterday, let's all sit down, invite all the representatives of the social partners and these and those, all the presidents or presidents of the parties or clubs, I want to tell them that I can't do this and that I've had enough of these protests and that we need something different. He didn't do it, and he can't say that someone banned him. It's his decision, it depends on his personality. That's why I commented on it like that. Don't be angry. It has nothing to do with you. And you vice presidents spoke well, but you're reasonable, but I don't think the other one did. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72173	Everyone has a right to their own opinion, but I'd rather discuss the law. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, colleague Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72174	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. When things start the way they go, a man can go down the water or he can still try to hold on and swim by the water. The government decided to go down the water. It's been in my blood for the last 20 years to keep swimming by the water, and in other questions, so I'm going to do this. Why? Well, because it is necessary to keep the minimum of what is clearly wanted to be destroyed, and these are labour rights and labour rights. Because it's a trend coming from the world that we little people who join the world think we should respect. And we think there's no other way and there's no alternative. That's how it works with flexibility. Ten years ago, in the European Parliament, some of my fellow Social Democrats, although they said they were right-wing Social Democrats, I didn't know there was one, right-wing Social Democrats, but he explained to me that they exist in one of the European countries, he told me everything is now flexible and it's very trendy. That's how it came to us today and it's thought that there's no other option but flexibility. And those of us who are a little older know, we remember a time when we also thought there was no other option but just the one and only who existed at that time. But we have plenty of time, experience, and some knowledge that we know that time passes and brings new solutions. I know it's gotta be cheap work with us, but the labour law can't regulate the labour market, it can't. It cannot be done by this law what should be done by other means. And for that reason, I'm afraid of flexibility that won't be under control. I'm afraid we're thinking there's no other alternative, or there's no other option, and that's all we can do. I understand that there are small businesses in the Republic of Croatia that mentioned the prime minister last time, the minister now mentions here, who need help, who, if they want to survive in their export campaigns, must have flexibility for more realistic employment opportunities. Let's see what these options are, but we need to save the workers from turning it into a general tool that will be abused by those who are more powerful than the state, and we know very well that our country is still weak, except in the story. But when it comes to functioning, it is too weak to perform the functions of the state, the protection of legality, the protection of rights and everything that goes with it. That's why we're terrified. As far as concrete, controversial places in this bill that we think is necessary, another conversation between the union and the government is needed, so that we can make a decision in the Parliament, first of all, on the working week and on general working time. All options that still exist for those who carefully analyse and read the proposed provisions of the law in the proposed law should be reviewed once more and see if it does not bear the possibility of abuse by the employer when it comes to working week and when it is due to the payment of overtime, when it is accompanied by early work records, when due to the payment of what the worker has to pay. So this is the first disputed place we believe should be improved in this law. As far as I understand it, the vice president who is chairing this House right now, we may only differ in terms of how problematic it is. The second question is the agency, if we introduce agencies as intermediaries for certain types of jobs, it is absolutely certain that we are introducing another actor who will need to be taken from workers and for which the worker will need to earn. It will need to be earned for its employer, it will need to be earned for the agency, it will need to be earned for the state, and it may still need to be earned by the Employment Office. And we're not sure if this agency in this complex relationship between her and the employer, her and the state, her and the workers will do their job right so that we can control it,...it's not safe. And as far as we're concerned, we'll focus when the time comes for a second reading, we'll focus on that part. On the question of justification, the question of rationality and the question of overall supervision when it comes to the functioning of agencies or agencies. The third thing we think is a question of working councils. We used to have work advice. In the working councils, key people were members of the party in companies, those who were slightly older who had that kind of role-playing know about the role. In the working councils, as far as we hear the key role of company directors or people who are the main managers of companies. It's a power ratio and we know it. But then two things should be avoided when the power ratio is in place, then two things should be avoided, one should increase the autonomy of the working councils, and the other is not taken away by unions what belongs to the unions, not passed on to the working council. And if there is a dispute between the union and the legislator of the laws on the powers of the working councils and unions themselves, it should be settled, Mr. Minister, through a conversation or how otherwise but it should be resolved. We can talk about unions as bad as we can about our parties, but so far there's no better. There may be some newer party and maybe some new union but there are no better instruments of working democracy than unionism. There are some forms of self-management, but we pushed it, we said it was constraint, it's Yugoslav, it's titoistic, and I don't know what kind of not communist, so now we're fighting for crumbs so-called. working councils. But they'll come back for discussion. I hope we won't wait very long because in light of the survival of human species and human societies and their elemental humanity, we're not talking about rights. And finally, that we will participate in helping both trade unions and government achieve dialogue and we will try to contribute to the improvement of these disputed places in order to ultimately have a law that could be adopted. However, one thing cannot be kidnapped, Mr. Minister, nor colleagues, which is that in Croatia is not really a problem of work but of capital, that in Croatia it is not actually a problem of workers but of capitalists. Where's our capital? We know where our workers are, more and more on the stock market, more and more among the unemployed, and where is our capital? He's gone. Where'd he go? Is it in banks, is it in citizens' savings, is it in bank deposits, in which places, who will start to deal with it, as long as what can't be squeezed can't be expected, as long as economic prosperity is expected, what? I keep cutting the law. Well, we're going to destroy this moral society in a demographic sense. The flexibility of working time will destroy the demographic assumptions of society. What status will women be under such a working policy? When people start making marriages under such opportunities to have more and more, to have more and more work for a certain time. And that as many as possible work with five employers at once. I am therefore in favour of helping those in the economy and society to survive, so not only with subsidies, not only with different types of relief but also to allow them not to have the price of work and working conditions as a noose in terms of development. And above all, it is about smaller or medium-sized enterprises, as far as I understand in Croatia. But only under the assumption of tight surveillance. But I'm also not about the general value of it all. And I am not about to call on trade unionism in Croatia and I am not about to take flexibility as the only alternative and the only option to save the Croatian economy and the Croatian economy that will fall on the burden of workers. And that means today, tomorrow on the burden of our children. We often call for Europe here. If it is judged by the reports that we can read by the European Commission on the review of non-employment and on social developments in 2013 the results are disastrous when this flexibility is on Wednesday. Up to 90% of people work for a certain time in Spain. In European countries up to 60%. If that's the trend, then we don't need any wars on the side. Then it's a process that absolutely leads towards very, very risky social trends. And we in Croatia not only should we not compare to Germany because we belong to a line of countries such as Greece, such as Portugal, such as Italy, such as Spain, as we have historically fallen. We'd have to worry about what that means. But it won't be enough to settle the Labour Act. If the Labour Act were to be a magic wand that would solve our economic difficulties, we would all vote for it regardless of all the differences we can have but that's not it. That's not it. No living capital market, no active capital, no capital that won't be zycherarian, who won't only deal with the state, who won't be protected from the state unlike the workers who won't be, and without that, it won't be possible to do what you want the ministers to do. But we will participate in the fact that this law is such that it can be adopted tomorrow but not without the union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72175	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72176	I am pleased to see that in your debate you have made it clear that, with a large number of Friedmans in this Chamber, there are Chinese people in economic terms of school and economy, I am glad to hear it. But you really gave me a thought when you said you heard how the flexibility became in. For a good ad for this bill would be maybe a good spot of flexibility is sexy. Why did that flexibility become in? Because he's very simple and easy to realize. You remove certain restrictions, rights, rules, structures and don't replace them with anything if you don't care about anyone. But those who started with the flashes always ended up in nasty problems and those who were smart knew that they followed the sequel to English flexicurity safely. Because the model, the transition of the labour market, which rests only on short-term or liberalisation, does not realise that it must follow changes in pre-school education, education, housing policy, health system, tax, employment services and the provision of territorial migration, which due to the tradition of Croatia, because of property ownership, has been made quite difficult, they have always fallen into the trap, thinking that by deregulation itself, by removing certain fences or rules, they will allow easier employment. In one place you liberalize, give in, but for not long months the impact begins elsewhere. Because the state must prepare for increased unemployment benefits or reduce rights, height or duration. It must be prepared for the payment of a health contribution to the burden of the state budget and the loss of pension insurance which will have to be compensated from the state budget. [[Thank you very much.]] That's why the flexibility is dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72177	The answer to the replica Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72178	Yes, as I didn't understand until the end 10 years ago what flexibility means today I understand very well. I understand that I could say and I don't want to and I don't believe that any of my colleagues here and I don't believe that the minister wants the flexibility to be the same as privatisation because it would be a disaster. It would be a disaster for my SDP friends, it would be a disaster for Croatia. And there's potential for those enthusiasts who don't understand all the dangers of flexibility when it comes to health care, when it's schooling, when it's social, when it's due to demographics and when it's under surveillance and control. So we have come to a point where there is no doubt, we need to think about the dangers that come from that side and the advantages that exist then carefully install them where they can be installed and where they bring certain benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72179	Boris Kovacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72180	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Representative, so you were talking about the characteristics of this law here most often you used today in your presentation the word flexibility, of course I didn't count and certainly in a negative context, because when we talk about mechanisms for the protection of workers' rights then I never fully understand it. But on the other hand, I think that in this text and in this first reading of this law, and this is still being reached and I am sure of the other, including the social partners, it's a matter of security. That's why I think maybe we should use the term "flexicurity" and already this text of the law, I think it can be recognized here through this new term, and through further social dialogue, why not come up with improved solutions. The more you cited examples of agency employment, overtime, and even then you mentioned that there are possible abuses, even though through Article 65, I can see that even the employers are limited because there are also criminal provisions, you have noticed through those three articles, through some 75 approximately sub-items and are quite easily worked out, more severe and severe injuries to employers, and I will also complete them in my individual debate. But I agree, there must be room for additional social dialogue, especially when it comes to overtime and agency work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72181	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72182	Well, first of all, when it comes to agency work, we already have one experience. A few years ago, I think even at the time of the former government's term of office, a newspaper house faced a strike of a significant part of its employees and the strike lasted quite a while and was quite serious, unusually serious about our union opportunities. What happened? This same publishing house, a daily newspaper, has formed an agency and employees who have lost their jobs transferred to their agency who probably will not get the opportunity to work indefinitely for the rest of their lives but will constantly remain employed within that agency or through that agency in the same house they worked in until yesterday. Therefore, they are possible dangers. And with what has already been said, as Mr. Lesar said today, what we talked about earlier days about how in Croatia, newly employed in the private sector are generally received for a certain time. Mostly or too heavy. Will we, with agency work, only further improve such a employment policy and on whose burden and on whose account? That's the question when it's after the agency. And when it comes to the envisaged models of work for a certain period of time it simply needs to be reviewed again because there are serious traps in those three years, cumulative and ways how these three years can become five years, but it is necessary to sit down and talk. The quarrel and stubbornness of this species when the social partners are not going to help anything. The law will not be passed or will be adopted in a way that will cause social conflicts and will not achieve what is necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72183	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72184	Thank you. Here I will refer to the two thesis that you presented in your presentation. The first is that flexibility will destroy the demographic potential of society. I would remind you that the demographic potential of society has already been effectively destroyed or significantly damaged even before flexibility because Croatia already has negative demographic trends and practically at the bottom of demographic results among the Member States of the European Union, so even before flexibility. So I won't doubt at all whether or not they will, but here's the only reason why the demographic potential of society is practically already ugly before this law at all. And the second question that was interesting to me, which you mentioned, was the question that you asked where our capital was. The last few days have mentioned a survey carrying out data in the Republic of Croatia with 280 multi-million people, with 190 multi-million people in BiH and Serbia combined. Maybe the answer to the question where our capital would primarily be to target those 280 people so from them move down in search of the answer where our capital is. Our capital is certainly somewhere, but our capital where it is not, is not safe in politics and is no longer state-owned, and where it is, I think, should be sought among those people who today own capital and especially in the fact that today Croatia, given its GDP, the real economy has an enormously disproportionate number of obvious millionaires in any company.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72185	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72186	Well, this thing certainly is not in the immediate domain of responsibility or responsibility of the Minister of Labour Mrsic, but it certainly is in the jurisdiction of other ministries and other state bodies. If what we have said here on at least two or three occasions is that saving citizens in the Republic of Croatia amounts to around 180 billion kuna and if one small percentage of it is, or if most of it is in the hands of a small percentage of the savings, what is the state doing? We are not asking to check what is going on with it, but if that capital is solely orientational then the question of the meaning of it is raised, then the question is as far as can be expected that this type of legislation will change something if nothing is done on the other side. And when it comes to where the capital is, then the constitutional changes since 2010, when we said there was no obsolescence in the conversion of crime into conversion and privatisation, and when the new justice came, we expected that something would happen. But nothing happened. I won't say that new righteousness remained old righteousness, but the paper was gone. So don't ask me where the capital is. Ask those who know more about it, and I'll be with you if you need to ask a question. Because what was the point of changing the Constitution, now we're probably going to change the Constitution now because we're going to have a new social justice. For what? Because there's an election nearby. And the thing is, we want to know what really happened and what's really going on. It's not a lesson to colleagues from the SDP, it's a lesson to those who want something done, and then when it's done, it doesn't. So either bitch or don't suck your pants. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72187	Vice President Milorad Batinic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72188	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Pupovac, you mentioned several thesis that I honestly didn't understand whether you agree with part of the bill or you have only some dilemmas so that some things should be done. Namely, article 65, you mentioned it, overtime. I'll show you the practice. The woodworking company got an extra job, 50 workers, 60, 70 no matter how much work it takes for the next 15 days for 3 hours extra overtime to say so. What then? The employer will lose his job, there's a potential risk of losing part of the market. Who's the loser? First of all, I think we need to divide, or separate this law. I consider myself to be a deep social agreement, but who is it? We have a few participants in that? The state here must give a clear framework. But who's making the deal? We're not in the system we were in until we were nineties. We're in a brand-new social arrangement. First of all, we have two types, two categories to say so. We've got a job and we've got a worker. Who creates jobs? Who? I think we need to make it very clear. As far as article 65 is concerned, I'm going to take advantage of the opportunity, and I believe it's the same dilemma with you as I said in the Labour Protection Act. Sometimes the text of the law must be the same as the military order to express itself – clear, understandable, unequivocal so that no speakers, interpreters of this law read from the fact that they will work 16 hours a day. There you go, Minister. I think there's also been a debate between fellow buds. Here I am asking you to make it a little bit simpler anyway, make it more understandable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72189	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72190	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Batinich. Let's be clear first. I'm against this system because it's exploitable, because it produces inequality and there's probably a difference between you and me. I'm an advocate of social justice, and I think it's possible for an economy where social justice is going to be, and I think it's possible to be progressive and marketable. That's what we said back in the '80s and '90s. Academic and Professor Branko Horvat assured many that it was possible. Today, it is seen that those who have said that it is not possible that they are wrong, because this kind of liberal concept is simply destructive and destructive. But let's let it go now. When it comes to overtime or when it comes to overtime, first if you admit overtime is not a problem, and you know well not to admit it. You know how merchants come and when they count and what time. If they start working an hour before they go out after the register and work with the merchants that first hour is not recognised. If they stay an hour after they lock the register, they're not admitted. So that's it, but two hours. The problem is not whether to work overtime, but to admit it and the problem is not to force them if they can't work, if they have children, if they have sick at home, if they have obligations, school or anything else. That's what I'm talking about. But that law probably provides only a matter of how to control it. Yes, but there is no control, Mr. Secretary. I'm not telling you this because...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72191	Thank you very much. Boro Grubisic, replica. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72192	Mr. Pupovac, I've listened very carefully to your presentation and I'm assessing it as though, although I'm not the one who evaluates a very comprehensive and profound thought that will happen with this proposal of the Labour Act or what I would call it, and you will understand me. So, the law of use, of exploitation, that's what you said before. So, the Croatian economy, which you wonder if there is more and in what quantities there is no new Labour Act, no new Labour Act at all. Work, labour and capital ratios that you have been talking about in this way through this new Labour Act or as I say about use will completely endanger the social and demographic opportunities in Croatia, lead to many consequences, so it will be in the end and boomerang for those who seek this Labour and Employers Act. It's on a longer track, for a longer time, but it's going to happen in Croatia and I say that because of it, and I think this Friedman flexibility, and then privatization creates a boomerang for those who think that way, which is precisely in this liberal conservative sense of this law, as expressed by a gentleman at the top of the government, the Kukuriku Coalition, a liberal conservative, interesting definition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72193	Miss twilight replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72194	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I agree in a great deal with your debate. Indeed, we have this Labour Act before us, and I don't know who's asking who's out here today, which is why we have a Labour Act when we have over 390,000 unemployed, when 70,000 people don't get paid for what they're doing, so they don't say it's been since before HDZ, right, but this one company is not getting 25 salaries, it's two years. But you spoke well of flexibility, that even the problem exists, the problem of this flexibility that you said on the other side was nothing done. We haven't opened any new jobs, we don't have any investments, and the real problem is still, maybe that flexibility would be good if we had a drop in unemployment, but unfortunately we have a growth in unemployment and with no tendency to improve, no tendency to open new jobs and it's really sad and even funny if the government wants to be socially fair with this law, to use this one in some pre-election campaign, really can't do it because this is all just not social justice, so maybe the government should wait a little while, I don't know, but I also agree with you that there are a lot of problems here and especially this article 66. But in my debate, of course, I'm going to talk about the category of persons with disabilities that I have to say very discriminate about here, and I think it's good for them in this House to talk too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72195	Jadranka Kosor replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72196	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I think my colleague Pupovac said in his debate one key sentence he said this morning, and I think she's the key in this whole debate, and that sentence is if this law were to guarantee that we would reverse trends. So if the Labour Act were a guarantee that we'd reverse trends to reduce the number of unemployed, create new jobs and so on. It is, of course, a question to all of us who are trying to look realistically and soberly at this law, and therefore precisely because we are not sure that this law is and of course the law should be looked at in the context and in many of the other laws that we have passed and that we need to pass. That is why it is wise, and therefore wise union policy does not push them on the opposite side, on the hostile side, but it is precisely why it tries to return them back to the table again, to discuss this open issue and I continue to argue that there are not many of them that have come to such agreement, and then, of course, it is easier to bring and raise hands for it, because at this moment there is a huge burden on MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament not only the ruling majority but all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72197	The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72198	Well, first of all, I would like to thank my colleagues Grubisic and my colleague, Sumrak, for supporting what I said and, of course, agreeing with the greatest part of what they said. Yes, the problem of this law and this bill is that it is attributed more than it can be attributed to, the problem of this law is that it is expected that what can't be realistically adopted while underestimating the negativity it carries with it and that's the problem and that's why we're cautious. Why is there so much debate about the Labour Act, again one question that has nothing to do with your ministry, Mr. Minister and your associates and your associates who are sitting and about the kuna course, and when we talk about it when we talk about it, because today, when we talk about the specialization and the fixed exchange rate and the consequences of this policy, we did not discuss it in this House, neither at the time when Mr. Schuker was Minister nor when Mrs. Dalic was, nor when Mr. Linic, and the consequences of this in the overall economy and in the overall economy, we do not discuss it. Why? Well, because workers do not have newspapers, television, capital and do not have such an impact on the Croatian Parliament and on the Croatian government as they have capital, media, banks and the like. And our duty and that's where you'll agree, and I know that you believe the same thing that I believe, Mrs. Kosor, it's our duty to make it possible to hear the voice of those who don't have any media, who don't have any banks, who don't have any capital and about which we here need to pass the laws, and we won't even ask them whether it's to their extent and according to their expectations or not, and that's why I'm talking today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72199	A proud Sobol replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72200	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Pupovac, I've come to the attention of only one part of your debate on the question, so possible flexibility of working time and their consequences of birth, of women, of harmonising family and business life. I want to actually talk here on the other side and warn that there are already several models in Croatia, more research that says there are very large numbers of women who want to work in this flexible working time. Women between the age of 30 and 45, mothers, are mostly highly educated personnel, so the women who have them have something like 55 grand according to the statistics they want to work on these models. And I'm not going to advertise them now, of course, but then it's the relationship of an employer who gets a high-quality educated employee on the one hand, and on the other hand, you have primarily right now talking about women, but it can also be applied to a male population that makes it much easier to coordinate their professional and family life. And all the research shows that women want to do it that way. But another advantage of these models is that, in a similar way, the issue of a large number of unemployed young highly educated men and women over 55 can also be solved. I'm sorry, in fact, that in Croatia there are too little talk, little knowledge and little hearing about such models. And I think it's worth hearing that part. And because of them, but also because of everyone else, I agree that this part of the law relating to the flexibility of working time should be read clearly and accurately so that there will be no misunderstandings tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72201	Thank you. The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72202	Dear fellow Sobol, I have listened very carefully to you and with great interest and what you say to me is unknown and I will be very happy to share it with you. And I belong to those who do not think that any model should be applied to a complex area such as labour legislation and such as the area of work. It is therefore possible that different models can be applied, but our fears are precisely that there is a trend of flexibility before the adoption of such a law and since the 2003 law that the coalition government opened and that allowed the release, so if we open that trend now, then unfortunately those 55 thousand who show a positive attitude towards possible flexibility of working time will be a collateral sacrifice in view of everything that can happen. But I agree with you that it is necessary to leave options and I agree that times have passed in which there is only one model but that one model should not be replaced by another single model, and that means that this model is once again dominant.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72203	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Representatives of Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72204	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll repeat that I believe on behalf of our club that indeed the Parliament carries a great burden. In the debate, there is a sense of what can be called the responsibility of all who have discussed it so far but we have one problem here, so we are not either club obviously nor clubs of ruling or opposition clubs, we cannot sit at a table with representatives and trade unions and employers again and open up all these issues that are ahead of us about which there are doubts and why we are not certain that all directions can go to law enforcement if accepted. It is therefore necessary to appeal continuously to the person most responsible, which is therefore the most responsible in the system, and also to the adoption of the law because the law will go to another reading or reading, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will have to accept it and will have to refer it back to the Parliament. So, pragmatically, it is important in the end it can only be good for the government of the Republic of Croatia to bring together representatives of the unions, all those who were at the gallery today, all who were out there protesting sharply, it will have to happen again or later. With full respect for the minister and his associates and the agreements and talks they have had or which they lead around the law the Prime Minister is one, he is the most responsible. Therefore, I am sure that if at that table at the Prime Minister's table all arguments for and against were brought to that table and discussed with a sovereign and reasoned no passion I am sure that this conversation would lead to agreement in that sense that we, too, here in the Croatian Parliament, would be able to raise our hands or hands against it. The atmosphere of the general strike in which this debate took place yesterday, we heard many and difficult solutions today, and here we hear that the unions are also organised to collect signatures for the referendum on early elections, so the matter has turned into quite political waters. It is an atmosphere in which one cannot speak sovereignly and soberly about such an important law, with me repeating what we have been particularly stressed several times in today's debate, this is of course not a law that can reverse trends or this could be a law, even if it were in full agreement and if all trade unions were to stand behind it and all employers could not be a law that would start opening jobs and this terrible trend of 385, and we are approaching 400 thousand unemployed. And as I said earlier today, there's actually no one to represent the unemployed in this debate. Trade unions represent employees, employers represent themselves and their companies, their companies, the government, of course, represents the interests of the state, but what about the unemployed? And I think in this debate we should turn to them more. For example, in general cacaphony about what is good is wrong with what this Law will bring, how good or how bad it will bring. If he's in the interest of large capital and capital in general or employers, I don't think he should agree to a debate where some good guys are, one's good guys and the other's bad guys. So, they're not and I dare say that, even though I know that there will certainly be those who will rise up and protest against what I say. But it's certain that every one of us and every one of you knows an employer, especially those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, that he knows, so he has them among us. So did they open up companies, did they open companies, did they start their own business just to enjoy firing workers? Probably not. A good employer who produces and exports and wants to survive on the market, of course, he cries out for good workers. And that's why it is necessary to provide a law that leaves space and the one who owns it, the employer was the state and government or it was some private as it is said in the jargon that he can hire good, that he can raise their wages, that he can reward the best but also that he can say goodbye to those who don't work, who do bad work, who steal etc. The same would be bad on the other hand to look at trade unions and trade unions as some who demand uninterrupted, governments change, ministers change, trade unions remain, trade unions mostly remain. And the union leaders who were here today and protested were both in my time and in our time, so the former government, the government before that, the government before that, we negotiated, the negotiations were always difficult and painful, of course the unions are looking for maximum but the government has to keep talking and bringing things back to the country's capabilities. So I'm sure that union representatives or union representatives can very well explain the difficult situation in the country, but they should have patience and be told the truth and should negotiate, talk without a fig in their pocket. So open with arguments and facts. So it wouldn't be good to talk about one or the other, or to put one or the other into those that are actually perceived as some kind of enemy. So the flexibility yes, the amendment of the Labour Act, yes, that is, the new law. This is what we end up in the past government and agree with representatives of unions or union centres to pass a new Labour Act. So it was an agreement in that kind of cacophony when the signatures were collected, when a referendum was sought for, or a referendum that would actually prohibit the amendment of the Labour Act. These are these amendments to the 2010 Labour Act. So only three articles, here's the lady and the lady on one page. Only three articles were changed and then these two remaining were actually transitional and final provisions, or what must be followed by each law. So only three provisions of the law were to be changed and we had protests and we had signatures. I don't know which one of you remembers there was then, and from politics, from the top of the policy, there was a proposal that went to bring a document, a resolution or a declaration that these articles of the law were, above all, a long-term application of the agreement, or a long-term application of collective agreements, so there was an idea and a document to be adopted in the House that would forever be prohibited from changing these provisions of the Labour Act. There was such an initiative in 2010. So that's when we said we need to change the Labour Act, so I keep repeating when you're in opposition and when you're in power, you have to say the same thing. And that's why the great burden is especially on the Prime Minister because he signed that these three articles should not be changed, he was for it, and so now he has more responsibility than anyone else, and he needs to talk. So I think there is, we think at the club that there's a lot of room for the deal and about the overtime and the redistribution of the working time, or the distribution of the working time, there's room for the deal. I certainly suggest on behalf of our club that this agreement be reached until the second reading of the law, I repeat, that it is being built into a second reading of the law that we do not have to go out with the amendments because opposition amendments and so no one will accept it and it would not be good for the government to come out with its amendments in the last seconds. So, Ministers, install it, try to arrange these things until the second reading of the law. And especially around this status after returning from maternity leave or parental leave. Because these provisions about having a worker or a worker who returns from such leave and can be redeployed to another more unfavourable workplace are primarily in the collapsing with the Constitution because the Constitution says that in a special way it protects family, motherhood and youth. And also in college with a lot of other laws, so here we have recently discussed the Law on protection at work. Therefore, we cannot in one law have perfect provisions on how we will protect first and foremost women as well as fathers who opt for such a kind of leave that is decided on such a kind of leave, and in the second, allow them to completely collapse that family strategy. Especially in families that live in cities, in municipalities where there are not enough infrastructures to follow young families, I mean kindergartens. We still don't have a perfect infrastructure that monitors, in general, young mothers, so that children can stay in kindergarten for up to 7-8 hours or in a manger while, for example, mother or father work. So there's room for a deal. Of course, there is also a fundamental question, whether we should have gone into two phases, means at one stage to amend the Labour Act only in those parts that have been harmonised because of the entry into the European Union, whether it was a wrong step, whether we should have gone to full amendments to labour legislation immediately. And finally, a fundamental issue that is extremely important in Croatia, we have in principle many good laws but they are not implemented, therefore amending and supplementing the law, especially labour legislation, which can further strengthen what is called uncertainty and for the end only from this proposal proposed by the trade unions today, we absolutely suggest that we try to supplement Mr. Minister that part of the law that says how many hours are allowed to work daily and then leave space as interpreted by trade unions and somewhere in some areas and up to 16 hours, how to reconcile life, how to reconcile real life, family, private life with what is called work, is that life just to work. If the unions misread this, then I think it's logical for them to work it out, but also for all of us at the negotiating table. It is also doubtful what colleagues have mentioned about the so-called so-called. An agency worker who can replace a fired worker. It's all questionable again and again from the position of the Constitution. Of course, as a woman, I support all those who have been discussing difficult sustainability from all those provisions of the law relating to maternity leave or parental leave and return from it. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, ultimately, negotiating is not easy, negotiating is difficult but only resulting in social peace. The social partnership, however often it seems like demagogy, has no alternative and there is no alternative because peace and only peace can lead to some steps that are still missing, to the real recovery of the economy and ultimately to the growth of the economy and to the reduction of the number of all of these people from 385 000 who have lost their jobs, who do not have a job for a long time, but also the fear of all those who follow this debate and fear that tomorrow and they will lose their jobs and their families without existence. Therefore, this debate in which we point out remarks is not a debate against anyone, it is actually a debate for Croatia. If changes to such a law bring a step closer to recovery then we will probably all be satisfied, whether we are in power or in opposition because this is the country of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72205	Thank you. Boris Kovacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72206	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here, Madam Representative, when you were talking about unions and that they represent employees, you certainly mentioned or expressed your concern about the unemployed of the 380 000 and 385 000, that there is no one to take care of. So I thank you both here and for your care and attention and trust me I know what it is because I know the situation from both my family and my wider family and the only and best protection for the unemployed is of course a job, and we are here to arrange a legal framework for this job to be a decent man, an employee. But when you were just saying that the union is protecting employees, I know that you are aware that it is not full of 500,000 workers or employees. We can place not only rhetorically, what about those almost 900,000 workers or employees. I keep saying it, and I'm really sorry why they're not, at least most, and especially that real sector, unionally organised. I know it can't be imposed, it's volunteering, but it's also a question and I'm asking you a nice maybe answer to a lot of challenges, and here are the questions that we've opened today with this debate when we talk about the Labour Act. And I hope you'll agree with me that this problem is not from today, not since yesterday, I mean the overall union scene in Croatia because I have a lot of confidence in good unions, I pray to good unions and trade unions and I believe it would be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72207	Thank you very much. Thank you. Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72208	Thank you very much. Well, there are no good and bad unions, the unions are there, people are unionally organised, those are not, but no government can, of course, ignore them because, of course, the unions have power with everything else, so they have what's very easy, and we've seen it today, spilling into political power, and we need every wise policy on it to take care of it. But today we've actually talked mostly about employees, so, because the Labour Law regulates the rights of mostly employees. So my question is anyone then talks about the unemployed. Of course, you should listen to employers, because they're the only ones who'll be opening jobs. So the government as an employer and others as employers. Only they can open new jobs. So, you don't have to look at them exclusively, and that's what I wanted to say as some exploiters who are going to lean over the workers and try to use them and then send them to the street. It is important for every good employer to have good workers and to have satisfied workers especially those who produce, especially those who export. So we need to talk about it so that no one or anyone who works feels used or feels under pressure. But on the other hand, our fundamental question is how to reduce the number of unemployed. You said it wasn't yesterday, right. But in 2011, as much as I remember 60, 70,000 less unemployed are facts. We've had two quarters of growth that's also a fact. And all the other macro economic indicators were better than they are today, but that doesn't mean that we all don't need to talk constructively about what should be done to make it better today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72209	Vice President Nenad Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72210	Dear colleagues, you call for an agreement and that's nice if that agreement could be reached. But let's think for a moment whether he's even theoretically possible. When is the best time to flexible work from the union's point of view or union leaders? Never, never. There's no time. When is the best time for a government to propose this law? Well, never either. Well, this isn't the law that gets someone's sympathy, so this is a bitter pill for every government. And when was that law to be passed again? Ten years ago. And if we brought it 10 years ago today, maybe the number of unemployed, not for sure, not maybe, but certainly wouldn't be like this. Well, it's not, it's not this law that's being proposed because someone doesn't like workers, it's because it's necessary. If we want foreign capital to come, if we want jobs to be opened here, then we have to flexible the labour market, there's no other, there's no other. There was no political power before. The difference between union leaders and some government, so you know it well because you've also led the government on responsibility. Union leaders don't have to be responsible. They must like their union membership to re-elected them, and one government must lead the country responsibly, must be responsible and at the cost of not liking them. It would be nice to reach an agreement, but we need to understand that this is an emergency. And if we want to be responsible for the country, if we want to be responsible for the workers, then let's try to explain to them that this is an emergency and that without this, there is no opening new jobs, that without this situation on the labour market will only get worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72211	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72212	My colleague, I would agree with everything you said absolutely that you and your entire party and the party president were against it. You say we changed that before. Well, yeah, I'm asking the same thing. Imagine if we changed that, those three articles that just talked about the lack of extended activities of collective agreements. It means you have to pay the same as the employer when GDP rises 7% and falls 7%. So that's what this is about. Yeah, you're talking about unions. And I'm talking about trade unions and employers and politics. So, you didn't want to support you as an opposition at the time from this point of view, and when I look at this Labour Act, I can say and dare say insignificant changes. You're talking about courtship. Well, I mean, of course, the signing of Mr. Zoran Milanovic, those petitions was anything, courting voters. And that was one of the reasons for winning the election because it was considered, even though we pulled the law, etc. Because why? Why did we pull? Because more than 700,000 signatures were collected. And personally, me and my colleagues didn't want to go break it in Parliament, change the law, and then go to the referendum and what? Change in the referendum, or the referendum, to decide that this law cannot be changed. You will remember what high official suggested even if in Parliament we make a decision that these provisions should never be changed. Can you imagine if that happened? So we're talking about the same thing, but from different perspectives on responsibility and policy, but also when it comes to social dialogue of all social partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72213	Joseph Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72214	Thank you, Vice President. I'll just continue a series of what you said, Mrs. Kosor, not only about responsibility but also about credibility. Because when there's no credibility in policymaking, let's say you're the former prime minister, Prime Minister. While you were speaking, some colleagues smiled, a general entertainment on such a difficult subject. What is lacking in Croatian politics and I will return to that thesis I spoke this morning in the debate, and perhaps today is a little quieter tone because those who are bored have gone away, some are all set boring and stupid and fun. We're not bored or stupid, and we need to talk. Credibility and humanity is something that is missing in Croatian politics in general. And it is unthinkable that Prime Minister Milanovic has not made little contact with you about the 2010 situation. And I remember, I was a member of some committees when we withdrew from the change of the Labour Act, because then the SDP was accommodating against it. What does not go well with the president, Prime Minister Milanovic, who signed the initiative, and also some colleagues. Today it was the Croatian Labourists who were driving the signatures in the dots, those wheelchairs to you there to the government. All together it was one fun performance while everything was done on the backs of ordinary workers, people, those who have difficulty living in Croatia. When you say today as an opposition representative that someone is having a hard time living and that you want everyone to say "demagogy," "pulsism," you're boring, what, what, what, what, what, what, what? And anyone who's in power thinks he's the smartest. Well, you know when you're speaking as former Prime Minister, when someone is grinning at you and laughing at you, and until yesterday, it may have been all your co-workers or rivals, it doesn't matter, it's all expensive to throw politics at the generals, and when there's no humanity or reason, there's no result. When that changes, it'll be different. I repeat, that Mr. Prime Minister had, and he had the opportunity to postpone this, and once again give his hand, and then tomorrow he can say who rejected him, that he didn't want to talk to him at a very difficult time for Croatia, then we go back to that whole story, which is why the role of such a representative body when it all comes down to nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72215	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72216	Thank you very much. Well, dear fellow Salapic, it doesn't offend me when I see someone in this assembly, and you mentioned some of them, and you allotted them when they laugh at me, or when they laugh at me or when they talk out loud when I speak, it doesn't offend me because everyone who doesn't respect anyone else, whoever he is, is either the former prime minister or he's the former minister or advocate, is actually smiling and laughing at themselves and mocking themselves especially when we talk about such important issues for the future of the state. So it's none of my business. However, what you repeat, and I, of course, that the Prime Minister is always the most responsible, is the Prime Minister who is responsible for everything bad, if something goes well and, for example, is responsible. The end of the negotiations then is at least responsible or least responsible, however, he should be aware of this. Therefore, it is necessary to keep an eye on it in advance and therefore it is important and therefore necessary. I'm even more sure now than I was yesterday. If the Prime Minister Mr. Milanovic would invite the unions and employers to talk again, it means a real conversation where he would open all the questions that are logical because now we're going to have a debate in the first reading, the second is waiting for us, to be sure that there are certain arrangements, I'm sure, because all these people respect the institution of the Prime Minister, I'm saying it out of my own experience, these are serious people, and after carrying out the arguments and the real situation in a country that is bad, I'm sure that things would improve to another reading, so I have the right to do so, given that I have a continuous experience and to repeat it to whoever it's funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72217	Drazen Djurovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72218	Thank you. You were talking about flexibility, I have a great example of pseudo-flexibilization, it's already been the health minister since before, since early February introduced into the medical system of doctors, that's what the pseudo-flexibilization model said. I can set a personal example of this, it's quite likable, it's not particularly likable but interesting so last night at 10:00 and 30 I sent my wife to the doctor's office. It starts last night from 23rd and works until today until 3:00, third and first shift in a piece, according to the work schedule set by the employer in the public sector. Now if this is the model by which the work in this society will normally be organised, the merger of third and first shifts, it is a model that is properly applied in that hospital according to the minister's instructions and not only in the others, and whether it is a model of how this flexibility will continue, that women will work 16 hours of night and first shifts in the package, and that this will thus start, 16, 12, 18, 15, 5, 9 without any regulations will put it into any frames at all, this will really show the time. I was, in principle, really a supporter, I am a supporter of opening up space so that people can work further, but these models of working time established as established in the public sector, so in the public not in the private sector, so under state supervision, that's practically amazing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72219	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72220	Dear fellow, you have now raised another important question which is the interpretation of the law, therefore, another important one, which is why it is unusually important that every article and every verse of this law should be well worked out, so it is clear in the first reading, so the interpretation of the law by the employer, for example, can lead to major misunderstandings and the worker to whom this interpretation can not spend time walking around and looking for his protection but must work if he does not want to lose his job, so the interpretation of the law is something extremely important and we must have such not only this law but also other laws that do not have much so. So I'm going to go to war, so I'm not going to get killed, so where do you put the decimal, it's exactly what it says at what point the provision applies, so that's why I think it's about the same trail and we're discussing this law that's right in front of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72221	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Martina Dalic. Excuse me, colleagues, Replic Ingrid, please welcome Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, but then give a sign if we don't see you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72222	What light signals, I think you should look here. My colleague Kosor, I generally agree with your assessment. You are talking about how it is not about important, so important changes but also about the necessity of establishing a dialogue and to remove any disputed situation. What's most important is that the war should be paid. We have people today especially in the private sector, especially with larger employers who are weak, who do not have union leaders, where people are afraid and where no one is working on it, I think it is a message to us, but also there, in those areas where union life is strong to do something and then it will be easier for all of us and come up with some concrete solutions because many who work in this sector and their owners who are foreigners certainly don't behave there as they do to us and what we do now, that work and that working time here does not increase, it is distributed but it is important to pay. The important thing is that the employer will have to have that list because today's controls we know what's going on are not effective. The worker himself is afraid to say that he worked here for 12 or 14 hours. You're also talking about 8 hours and work and rest. Once when we spoke in defense of the union victory of the 19th century, eight hours of work, eight hours of rest and cultural ascension, we were declared commies. Today it's normal, the worker has to work and he needs to rest. But what seems to me to be most important in all of what you're saying, but what's important is to point out that this kind of management model at European level and globally, it creates by the nature of things extra labour. And that's the big problem with such a model of economic policy changing at European level. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72223	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72224	So if we want to open up that investment cycle that's unfortunately not going to start. If we want foreign investors, then I think that the same is true for those who come to invest in their capital, our labour legislation must be fully clear, transparent to the end. It's also an important message. I've already said it's very bad that many laws are often changed, so here's the Labour Act, and we should really pass the Labour Act now, which should last, it would be ideal to 5 imagine that it lasts 10 years. That'd be good, that'd be a good message. It's a rock in the creation of an investment climate. But unfortunately, I'm not sure that's how it's gonna be. I think now that in the afternoon part of the debate is more casual, quieter, it seems to me perhaps with more arguments and it seems good to me, no matter how we eventually vote and who will raise a hand for what. But I agree with you that in everything else we must speak openly about what you have mentioned, which is the fear of many. The fear of many not being struck by the employer, not to dare speak, not only publicly, not only in the media, but not to dare say that to their parliamentary deputies. I know two cases like that. So even the MPs don't stand anonymously, and they don't end up openly and honestly telling them what's holding them back.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72225	My colleague Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72226	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Well, here's this whole day's debate is developing and it's, of course, taking place in light of the fact that it doesn't need to be particularly highlighted, which is that the labour law is one of the most important things in the market economy. Because the labour market isn't just any market. And because of that, for the assessment of the nature of this law and the suitability of its provisions, we have set out at least two essential criteria in light of which we have followed and analysed this law. The first of them is certainly whether there is and what the contribution of this law is to economic recovery. And the second is whether there is and how social dialogue between social partners has been achieved. In fact, at the beginning of the 6th year of the crisis in our country, many times today it has been said that 385 thousand people do not work. And it is clear and understandable that any legislative proposal can only be assessed in the context of how it contributes to economic recovery. In the case of the Labour Act, this is particularly pronounced. Given the social tensions, negative social energy which unfortunately opens the Law on Labour in the legislative procedure always opens and encourages us. Already, this tension and social energy itself has bad consequences for economic movements, especially if to some extent it is caused unnecessaryly and unwarrantedly, as we think the case is in this law. However, we believe that the Government, that the motionor did not in this whole debate and in the explanation of the whole of this law, showed, proved and clearly outlined how and how this new proposal of the Labour Act would contribute to economic recovery. The government has repeatedly reiterated that the proposed law is important, important, necessary. It has been mentioned many times today in Germany and that work relations in Germany have been arranged in the same way. However, for the sake of this similar rhetorical argument, the government has used almost all the laws adopted. The result is a decline in GDP and an increase in unemployment. The rhetorical arguments that something must, that something needs to be done, that something necessary unfortunately has not proved convincing and effective. We believe that this is due to one of the essential reasons why the government does not possess a complete, complete and credible plan of economic policy measures that will result in economic recovery. Germany, too, is not today a crisis resistant to Germany because at some point it only changed the Labour Act, but because it had a clear economic policy plan that was carried out in so consistently in such a social consensus. So today and after more than two years since the government's mandate began, we have been waiting for the complete plan of measures and a plan of economic policy that will result in economic recovery. In the meantime, while we're waiting, we have the Labour Act in front of us. We find such an ad hoc approach inadmissible. Inadmissible among other things and because the Labour Act is singled out from the overall context of economic policy, economic reforms and other measures, both for the promotion of the economy and the austerity measures, and for the reform measures, without this context, we cannot actually properly assess which possible, indeed, negative effects of this Act and which are possible positive effects if there are any. If we remember here the proposal to amend the 2010 Labour Act, then these changes were proposed in the context of the economic recovery plan, they were highlighted in the context of a specific economic plan, a plan of measures to reduce the crisis and how and how to take the country on the path of recovery. These changes were a very significant element of that plan at the time. Therefore, for us there has been an amendment to the Labour Act to the new Labour Act in the wider context of economic policy, in a broader reform and economic context a minimum prerequisite for any reasonable debate on the Labour Act. It is interesting to mention that last December the government adopted and presented to the public a document called "The Project Plan for the implementation of long-term fiscal consolidation reform measures", a rather complex title. The title, however, also mentions long-term and reformal. There's no mention of the Labour Act in that plan. For example, it seems to me, if the Labour Act does indeed have as the Government mentions and states, if it really has the potential to increase employment, increase creation, create new jobs, then surely such changes should be found in this plan. Because it certainly has a positive impact on employment ultimately has a positive impact on the budget. However, in this only reform plan that we have managed to obtain from the Government, the Labour Act is not mentioned. It shows this, in fact, the lack of coordination and lack of focus of the Government and the lack of economic policy connection that we are talking about and that is why we believe that this change is an ad hoc change, an amendment that cannot clearly explain either the way or the instruments or the path that will achieve the stated objectives. It is certain that no law itself, no measure in itself singled out has the potential to move the economy. Well, that doesn't even have an individual amendment to the Labour Act. Only in relation to other moves, positive developments can be expected with other economic policy measures. We believe, therefore, that the Government simply did not provide sufficient evidence to show how and how this Law would lead to greater employment and faster job creation. However, I think the government has provided enough strong evidence that unfavourable trends in the labour market are unable to manage. For example, let us remember the budget rebalance for 2013, three months ago a budget rebalance was adopted for 2013 in this House and one of the items on which significant savings were then made was an active employment policy. The funds for the active employment policy in 2013 were then reduced by 168 million kuna. This is one of the items on which savings were found in 2013. On that very occasion, the government showed that in a country of huge unemployment, an item worth saving is an active employment policy. And today we have a new Labour Act that says no, we are not going to encourage employment through an active employment policy, but we are going to do it through the Labour Act. It seems to me very sudden and very sudden changes. The question is therefore fundamentally why, how and how, after these changes, employers will want to have an account to employ a larger number of workers. In fact, I compared the old law and the new law a little bit. This new Law, in more than 80% of articles, is identical to the existing one, and today is still worth the Labour Act. If so, labour legislation has been recognised as a major obstacle to the creation of new jobs, I do not see a major obstacle to employers' work as to how it is possible that the law, which in the good part repeats the existing provisions of the law, will bring such necessary changes as the Government points out. And that these changes do not actually have a particularly great potential for increasing employment in some way can be read from the employers' association's statement. In fact, the Employers' Association says these changes open up the possibility for small and medium-sized enterprises to organise work more flexible in agreement with employees in line with today's labour market needs. The Employers’ Association itself is talking about today’s labour market needs. What's the situation today, we all know. However, we are interested in this tomorrow, we are interested in this future situation, we are interested in how to get into a higher number of jobs and how to get into a better job situation. Here the proposed changes do not have that potential and cannot have it because this better tomorrow depends on many other things and not exclusively on the Labour Act. This better tomorrow demands and moves in many other areas that should take place at least parallel to the amendments to the Labour Act if not before them. Those other moves, unfortunately, are gone. Meanwhile, the proposed amendments to the Labour Act have also done great social damage. Social dialogue has been interrupted and the only tangible result of this Law is in fact an additional rise in social tensions. Among the many issues that exist in the world of work in the modern European economy, social dialogue is one of the most important. It is therefore natural to ask the Government how it, and to what extent, uses social dialogue to manage social change and manage the challenges posed before workers and employers. Not only this Labour Act, which has caused great tensions in various segments of society, but also many other issues show that the government, unfortunately, is not able to constructively encourage or constructively lead. And if social dialogue is unable to lead on these fundamental issues such as the labour law issue, then how can the government expect to conduct an effective, effective and calm social dialogue and more difficult issues than this, and there are such issues as this? ageing population and globalisation, the impact of this on Croatian society in conditions and worsened economic and financial relations. I fear very little can be expected from the government in part of social dialogue and social dialogue. In the atmosphere today created in Croatia, the advocate of social dialogue seems almost unreal. However, pressure from any unfavourable economic circumstances, whether or not some pressure from the outside, is not an excuse that the government is acting unilaterally because only this situation can further worsen. Social partners are legitimate participants, not apricot opponents in this business. I therefore appeal to the Government to show an appropriate degree of political will and commitment to social dialogue in addressing these complex social and political issues. Without social dialogue, without dialogue with social partners, understanding and realizing that social dialogue is not a social blackmail, such changes cannot be made. And it is not good to put into labour legislation and generally social issues without making a lot of effort both in conducting social dialogue and in explaining and explaining what kind of economic policy this law is. Which, as well as how links are expected with other economic policy measures that will eventually result in everything together in the goal that we are all seeking, which is economic recovery. Therefore, given the unclear and unconfirmed economic effects of this law, given that it is being adopted and discussed and that it is proposed under the conditions of the suspended social dialogue, HDZ does not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72227	Igor Radjenović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72228	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here's Mrs. Dalic, in one I have to admit to a calm speech you've said a lot, in fact you've confirmed several times this thesis, so these two thesis that the government is offering nothing in its economic programme and that it offers nothing about social dialogue, and then later on, there are not so many changes to the existing law, so 80% of the law is the same in some way indirect and confirmed what the minister was introducing, that this law does not differ in any way in the protection of workers' rights in relation to the laws of the European Union and what we protect in the European Union. But I listened very carefully, you used almost all the time, you didn't suggest anything, you didn't look back at any of the articles of this law and say what it should be and how it should be changed in this bill. Only your second thesis, so there's no social dialogue. During the inaugural presentation, your club joined, unfortunately joined the unions that listened here, the minister said one or two sentences and for some unknown reason left this and such social dialogue. But if this and this assembly are no place for dialogue, social dialogue, public dialogue, let's call whatever you want, Mr. Shucker, so if this assembly isn't, then I don't know what other place that would be for such a dialogue. I say, listening to you carefully, I haven't heard any new solutions. You've talked a lot about the need to create an atmosphere for social dialogue, and then I have to ask if the atmosphere that is happening these days at HDZ meetings, at public gatherings, speech and style that your president is talking about is a very important issue, and there is no such thing as this again, whether it is a contribution to this social dialogue. At open and public gatherings. Which is just how you speak at closed gatherings where there aren't any journalists, that's all I can worry about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72229	Replication response, Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72230	Dear counterpart Radjenovic, this story you persistently repeat from the debate in the debate that there is no proposal, as far as I understand the democratic structure and structure of the government in the Republic of Croatia, the state government coalition that won the elections, which is a coalition led by the SDP, which runs the government and whose job description is to manage the state and solve its problems. It is in our job description that we discuss these proposals and these solutions. Well, you're not going to tell your colleague, Radjenovic, that and to agree that HDZ determines, conducts politics and writes laws, and you're just doing them. As far as social dialogue is concerned, social dialogue is the course of European democracy. Croatia is a Member State of the European Union and we here, colleague Radjenovic, have invested a lot of time and effort and work on this side of the assembly, and we believe in that and social dialogue. And I told you, social dialogue is not a social blackmail. So, understanding that social dialogue has certain limits that are sometimes exceeded in our country. And the power to exceed the limits of social dialogue I think has just generated your party which, when it was in opposition, signed the referendums, which called for the Labour Act never to change, that...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72231	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Time's up. Ingrid Anicevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72232	My colleagues, you say multiple times you've repeated and here and now and again about the necessity of dialogue. Your client, as soon as she came to power, banned a gathering at Mark's square. So she didn't want to hear or see the protesters or the dissatisfactions, let alone talk to them. And as discussed in the EU, it was talked there that you didn't hear the same thing, but you immediately signed it, so now our fisherman can't even get five kilos of fish out of the sea after the Italians have devastated us all. That's one thing. Likewise, the context in which we are discussing today, today we are discussing the conditions at all, what can be done in an impossible situation. And what is this impossible situation today? The BOOK holds the closing word in the Fimi-Medie case. There are interesting things about Croatia, about our society, about our reality what you did and how you did. Says such political corruption, the USKOK argues, and this one, your former prime minister who was responsible for the legal work of HDZ, and this party, using the fact that it favours Fimi-Medi in power, who thus drew money from public companies that became private companies of HDZ. And in this way says the long-term impoverished Croatia, said USKOK whose consequences are still felt today. So give me some self-criticity. At least come on, don't get the trade unions. We'll deal with them. Where's your responsibility? You say the great sin of the current prime minister for signing a petition or petition for a referendum. Yes, he signed his referendum. That's what you say is the greatest sin. And you have to know, and you're saying it's not working here, when it's working to concentrate on the bill itself. That it's not some big deal, it's that the worker won't work longer, and he'll have proof when he's working, how much he's done, and he'll get paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72233	Thank you. Replication response, Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72234	Mrs. Anticevic-Marinovic, whenever the SDP has no arguments and doesn't know what to say then you start discussing the story of the former prime minister who was your prime minister in the nature of things, and he was the president of the HDZ and as Prime Minister he was president of your government. Therefore, I do not think it deserves any more detailed and detailed comments, because these issues are discussed in detail. Regarding the EU, Mrs Anticevic-Marinovic, on the last day before Croatia's EU membership, we adopted a law in this assembly that the Prime Minister said was an instrument that wants to show that the EU is proving its own self. I don't need to tell you how embarrassing this law has embarrassed and damaged Croatia in the EU. Therefore, it is not good for you to teach me and remind me and tell me how and how we need to understand European values. I think I know it from this side and I understand it very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72235	If Mr. Sanader was also our Prime Minister, I agree and Mr. Milanovic is your Prime Minister. Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72236	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Dalic, I've come up with the impression from your debate that all the reasons for the amendments to this Labour Act lie right in the government itself, as if the government had come up with it all on its own, so there are no other circumstances. Although you were in the debate at the beginning talking about the problems that exist there is primarily a large number of unemployed, unacceptable share of the grey economy and work on black, too long a procedure to adapt employers quickly in the emerging circumstances on the market. You didn't mention that in the debate as one of the reasons why the government is moving into this amendment. You yourself said 80% of the law remains unchanged. You must know very well how difficult it is to be competitive on the market today. It is also this change of law that will allow employers to become more competitive in a difficult competition. The Republic of Croatia is a member of the EU. This proposal of the Labour Act, which regulates labour relations in the Republic of Croatia, corresponds individually and collectively to the principles, criteria and criteria of the social state and social justice, no less than the systems of Western and European states that we recognize today by developed socio-controlled market relations. This sentence actually gives rise to what we are saying today that we need to adapt to things that are happening in the EU not to commit terror or to put workers at risk, but to be competitive in these really difficult competitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72237	Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72238	My dear colleague, I'm actually very sorry if you haven't understood the meaning of my debate, because I've actually invested a lot of time in formulating that debate. Maybe it's actually because of an objection that usually tells me to speak too technically and too incomprehensible and not simple enough. I'll do it, of course I'm trying to correct it by getting experience in this House. And once again, I'm very sorry you didn't understand the meaning of this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72239	Ivan Shuker, more replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72240	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Dalic, when we withdraw the parallel between the main proposed amendments in 2010 and these, it is clear that the amendment of the Labour Act in 2010 was only one in a series of changes that were to take place. And we also knew how much fiscal resources and how much state-owned public-owned finance this amendment of the law is. So it wasn't about a billion, two, it was about 9, 10 billion of which were to open new negotiations. What was the reaction then of those who today do not know the argument that would confirm this lack of social dialogue we have seen. The result is that in the budget, we spent the last 4.5 years spending 7.8 billion kuna extra and that's true. If this law today were the consequence of a single overall reform measure of this government, then perhaps the trade unions would see it differently in the opposition, and eventually taught by a bad 2010 experience in a completely different way. But at times when we're struggling with excessive deficit measures, when we're fighting high unemployment, when we're fighting whether or not we're going to have some kind of growth this year, we're wasting a lot of energy on some changes in work that honestly speaking over the next two years won't have much more impact on anything. If we had economic growth of 2% or 3% at this time then it could be said that this will have a more significant impact on the labour market but if not only in Croatia but outside they say that as far as the number of unemployed in Croatia is concerned, the next two years nothing then it is clear that this change of the Labour Act that caused a lot of bad blood is pushing anyone out clearly why, but unfortunately it is not the only law that this government is pushing firstly led by the SDP, that it is not clear to anyone why and why, but unfortunately, one terrible bad atmosphere is created in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72241	Thank you. Replication response, Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72242	Thank you very much. So exactly what you're saying confirms and once again emphasizes the fundamental position of our club. It is not the Law of Labour that let me so express myself to the world of cows that the law should not be debated and that it should not be changed. However, precisely because of the sensitivity of the matter that this law deals with and these changes can be conducted only in context and other measures which, at the same time with some potential and potential labour law, will then provide some kind of stimulating measures to create new jobs and some kind of reform to remove obstacles to business and some kind of reform that will give savings in the budget, and then we will have this famous, whole, German package that we have been talking about these days, and then we will be able to tell ourselves, we have made one effort, we have made one, we have given one impulse from which, within some time period, economic recovery will arise. This mentioned attempt to amend the 2010 Labour Act was made precisely in such a context, in the context of the Economic Recovery Programme and had and aimed at some fiscal savings. It didn't work, too bad. At that moment, a major blow to the reform capacity of the Croatian society is being struck, which is, in fact, very well on its skin today, still being felt by the ruling party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72243	And now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, Col. Srdjan Gjurkovic and counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric if they carry out their obligation there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So we in HNS believe that this long-term dialogue and we believe that dialogue, social dialogue will continue after the debate and first reading in the Croatian Parliament. The dialogue and debates that take place today on the labour law are considered good and we believe that these discussions and we read that, by the opposition, the descent of tensions in a way that we hear about the metrics already, and that it is not so crucial in everything, in which Croatia is presently located but also in the HNS, we believe that it is extremely important because it is the Labour Act and because we are on, that is, our workers, entrepreneurs, on the EU market. And this is not a law that is in line with neither the EU directives, but rather a law that is in line with the government's proposal, with the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and the labour markets. He uses more experience in mentioning Germany but experience and other EU countries that have tried to adapt their laws to ensure greater competitiveness but take care in any case and we, as an absolute party, are also committed to strengthening the safety and protection of workers. Because the law that simplifies certain procedures and we know that so-called red tape procedures, administration is the problem not only of employers but of the problem and of citizens when they solve and certain problems are something we are obliged to speed up or improve. Easier employment through flexible forms of employment is something that certainly facilitates the ability not only to reduce the number of unemployed but what is crucial by increasing the share of labour-active employees in the working-active population, and we are below 50%, Europe is somewhere at 70%. This is one of the main criteria in terms of employment of the working-active population, quality of work and social development. Simplification of the organisation of working time, which led to the most doubts and discussions between trade unions and employers, or the government's promoter, is something that also through this debate, and through those discussions that will last again and open round tables and public debates and social dialogue between the government and trade unions and employers. I believe that there will be an optimum that ensures the progress of laws and conditions to make it easier for employers to be competitive, to send a message to foreign employers who have more flexible approaches in other countries to invest in Croatia and to find those options that are most qualitative and which satisfy that the consensus has already been said here several times and that, in fact, advanced labour legislation is in favour of new employment. New employment is crucial. Let's not forget the same thing that always has been and will be, and this has been visible politicization and part of the union, but what's bad and the policy when this law is being discussed is that we must be aware and always forget that we have set ourselves up for a social policy system of the market, protection of private ownership, competition, knowledge, skills and skills. And this law must also be implemented and complemented in its quality. This law also tries to modernise labour market relations, preserve jobs and open new ones, speed up procedures and facilitate. And it bothers me and us at the HNS that our entrepreneurs often get used to it, so I say it labels as those who are either bad, who are either thieves or those who take advantage of their employees. That's not true, of course. Sadly, bad examples are always being framed and shown as examples of those majority. But that's not true. Likewise, all good workers should be protected from those who do not work well, who do not work well, who do not ensure that this country and the economy can move forward which are the brakes in the process. And that is what this law is trying to ensure in its proposal, speed up certain processes for solving and such problems. And it is a law that, with its proposal, must be a good, good basis for finding the right solutions to the final proposal with a public debate. By reading the comments of the unions that they delivered to us in the club of MPs and all MPs, it is clear that they have been intensively involved, and it is clear that some of the proposals of the points of the law have even pointed out that there should be a clearer definition of some items, which means that they agree and that they are looking for even more detailed and clear to describe it, that some of the items are complemented and, of course, part of those proposals in which they are written to delete certain points, which means those are topics on which they should be sat down, discussed and I believe that a solution should be found. Most of the controversial things that she created were that her colleagues said evil blood, so the politicization started, so now the signings for the collapse of the government, most of them were actually consistent with the unions. The smaller part I think the minister will confirm, the very small part has remained disputed and is most concerned with this part regarding the restriction of the simplification of the organisation of working time. And that should be emphasized because the public has a picture that essentially there was no dialogue, that absolutely nothing was said and that everything that was proposed was not adopted, and that is not true. So the dialogue should continue and lead to the end and the smaller part, which is about a quarter of the debate that is open between the government and the unions, should primarily be discussed further. This dialogue, which is held at the first reading at the plenary session of this House of Commons, is only a good indicator of the possibilities and the need for legislators to discuss and get even better acquainted with the basic articles of the Labour Act, the basic Labour Act and to encourage trade unions and the government and employers to sit at the table once more, and that afterwards, it does not matter whether it is two months or four months but I believe by summer we get the final draft of the law and that we joint that law once we have it to be quality and to implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72245	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72246	Dear colleague Gjurkovic, you have now confused me in your debate. The minister all the time claims that there is not a single reduction in the rights of workers in this bill, nothing is diminishing, everything remains, not even more rights are increasing and you said that this law is needed to increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. It doesn't go together, some of it's a lie. How can we accept such a burden, so if there is no change for the workers up there and no rights are reduced, abolished and forgotten for the fact, especially those investors you mentioned coming from a country where the average net or gross salary is 3, 2.5 or 2 times higher than in Croatia? 5.7 euros per hour gross average salary, 2.17 euros gross minimum wage until a few months ago was the reason for the incompetence of the Croatian economy, and then we were able to prove that it was fraud and fraud that receiving workers in Croatia did not cause incompetence. You said today the Parliament is conducting social dialogue. Social dialogue means discussion and agreement between social partners, such as employers' associations, trade unions and governments, and not Parliament and Parliament have never been in social dialogue. And in the end, it's a good thing that you're the principles of whether the dialogue was. Yes, the unions, probably in your clubs, didn't give you that, gave you the written 9th point of the agreement with the ministry they agreed to change in the Labour Act and agreed to compromises and changes. which they considered necessary. [[Intruder: Time.]] But it is still said that unions don't agree to any changes, that's the difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72247	My colleague Gjurkovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72248	A respected colleague, of course, of course, does not have social dialogue here. Of course, there is a debate here on the bill. But in this way, I also trust the arrival of representatives of the union and democratic protest in Mark's Square and opens up additional space through my debate and debate of all colleagues for further social dialogue and finding those most qualitative solutions because we are all in favour. Of course, it also ensures the competitiveness of the Croatian labour market, adapting it to similar competitive countries in terms of employment, speed up procedures, flexibility. This is the part of the competitiveness that we as a government, the coalition should work with, of course, that social dialogue. Therefore, I do not see that there is anything particularly controversial and that it is not at all at all controversial that we are discussing here today, we are opening these topics, we are replicating each other, that the public is even better aware of what this Law is adopting, where the problem points that social partners cannot agree on are. And that's good to argue in this House. Opening these topics, the opening of this Law in this High House certainly helps to reduce tensions rather than increase tensions and make certain arguments on both sides and on both sides of each other clearer. And the most important thing is that such laws are not passed by emergency procedure and they are not, that they are not passed somewhere under the table, and no law as we know these governments is non-transparent, although it is very, very transparent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72249	Thank you. Nancy Tyrelli, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72250	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Gjurkovic, I would also refer to what you claim will increase Croatia's competitiveness in that part of the labour market. But now it would be extremely good to put some parameters in some kind of relationship. If we are talking about Croatia's competitiveness as a new destination for investors, then we must also consider firing, easier layoff of workers, or what you claim the employer will have the possibility of easier employment, but also easier layoff of workers. Is the Labour Act our priority, or is it something else? Did we do everything else and arrange it before we went to the Labour Act to attract foreign investors? We have investments that are extremely difficult, so I'm going to give you just one example of the Plomin thermal power plant that doesn't, for example, plan any new employee. It is unserious to talk about the Labour and Workers' Rights Act in the context of competitiveness or not the competitiveness of the Croatian market. Because I still think and I am convinced that the cost of costing Croatian workers is not the biggest obstacle to any foreign investor to come to invest in Croatia and to open its production in Croatia rather than to think that interference is elsewhere. And first of all, the large parafiscal and tax burdens that as such confuse not only confuse but also bother every investor. And that before this Labour Act, we had to settle a lot more laws that would strengthen that competitiveness before the labour price.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72251	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72252	Dear colleagues, the fact is that we have a problem with the education structure and the skills of certain categories of workers. By creating competition, we will also stimulate them to additional education, and these are the measures that encourage this ministry and through the Croatian Ministry and additional education and education, the acquisition of certain and new skills, so that is not all I will say in the Labour Act package, it is in the government's work package to ensure a better workforce, more educated, with greater skills needed by the labour market. Obviously, that's not what we've been working on so far, and overnight things aren't working out. The competitiveness and labour markets, i.e. labour market offers and the quality of competitiveness, also ensures this law because we will also ensure better employment, and with these other measures, when you mention them in the package, we will also ensure greater salaries and the possibility of ensuring that those who are employed have better income and skills.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72253	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Mirela Holly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72254	Thank you, Vice President. Well, at the very beginning of my debate, I would say that I'm afraid this proposal will not bring great benefits to workers or employers. In fact, regardless of the fact that it has been said here on several occasions that German labour law model, which is one of the best models of labour law in the world, has been used in the draft law, and we should bear in mind the fact that the current labour law has been modeled according to German labour legislation, it seems to me that we have not gone to the end of this model to say in the implementation of some of the solutions that would be more effective in protecting workers. Therefore, it can be assumed that the German model in the part where workers' rights and status are being threatened and appears to be insecure status of workers, and on the one hand it can be said whether it also suits employers in terms of easier layoff or employment of workers through these temporary employment agencies, and this is not actually a good approach. In fact, we should bear in mind the fact that opportunities in Croatia differ greatly from opportunities in Germany and that in Germany we do have a right labour market where flexibility is also possible in terms of changing jobs, and in the Croatian situation where we have almost 400,000 unemployed, where jobs are shut down almost daily, and with great slowness new ones are opened, this possibility of flexibility or transfer from one job to another is not in any case such as in Germany. It has not been done or at least the Croatian public has not been sufficiently presented by the Ministry of Labour in relation to the application of the German model to the current state of the economy and the labour market in the Republic of Croatia, and it was clearly thought that automation would produce the same effects as it was in Germany, which, of course, I mentioned earlier and did not expect. Because the model itself if the whole economy is not prepared for such a way of regulating labour relations can lead to disturbances, rather than repairing the situation on the labour market, which according to the current ZORs is arranged and has in some way established all control mechanisms to avoid possible market manipulation of workers. It is my impression that the key problem with labour relations in the Republic of Croatia is not so much of the private sector relations that are more of a problem with the public sector, and I am afraid only by reforming this part of the legislation will not achieve the desired effect, and this desired effect should be a thorough reform of public administration, an effective service of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore believe that key interventions should be made in the Law on State officials and tenants in terms of evaluation and generally valorisation of work on the basis of certain measurable criteria, and I do not think that this is a bad approach and in general because, unfortunately, in Croatia lately, it is my impression that this culture of work, i.e. the necessity of valorisation, is very slowly disappearing that if people work and work in quality, they are adequately and rewarded for this work. The proposed organisation of working time will lead to the absolute inability to control overtime, which is also a problem for the current ZOR, as employers would display the same on the accounting lists as stimulating work and by far more orderly provisions of the existing ZOR was impossible to put under the control of overtime. Over a period of long-term work and changing dynamics, there will be questions about the health and safety of workers, although the European Union directive states that man is not adapting to working time, but working time to man. But in the Republic of Croatia we will obviously create the practice of the first mentioned. Proposed employment through agency employers in the Republic of Croatia will be used as an ideal opportunity for the minimum number of employees to have a job for, indefinitely or indefinitely, because, according to the proposed changes, the employee will be able to work through the agency for a period of up to 3 years for naked wages without the right to other material rights. Of course, employers in the Republic of Croatia will benefit from such a form of employment because they also avoided the working council and union commissioners and trade unions active in employers and ultimately collective bargaining. In this regard, the expected result may be that workers through agencies will be paid less for the same jobs than permanent employees, and their work will rarely last on a continuous basis and not on a temporary or occasional basis. And I think that's exactly the situation we should avoid. Namely, as I said, it is extremely important that in Croatia we return a certain valorisation of work and culture of work, that people be motivated to work, work quality and value, and that on the basis of how they work and how they work, and if they work in quality, they are adequately and rewarded financially. The Ministry of Labour obviously wants to create a climate of a non-natalitic policy through the proposed ZOR draft. This has already been the case today, as a question is raised which women of childbearing age will decide on maternity leave if it is stated in the ZOR that after returning from maternity, parental, adoption leave, leave for the care and care of a child with severe developmental disturbances, and the rest of the employment relationship until the third year of a child's life, the employer will not be obliged to return such worker to her post but will be able to deploy her to other possible and more unfavourable working conditions. The expected result is that workers will be forced to give up the establishment or expansion of the family, because they will be afraid that they will be able to disrupt as secure as the current existence. So, for the sake of all the above, I believe that these solutions still need to be worked out and that much more needs to be discussed on this proposal. And that it would be good if the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with what was kind of based on the budget for this year, were to move more seriously towards a thorough public administration reform because my impression is that key problems are precisely related to the labour law and labour law sector are just located in the area of employment of civil servants and subsistence. In my opinion, it is not possible to make changes to the Labour Act, but primarily to adopt a new Law on civil servants and tenants and, of course, a whole series of other sublegal regulations, but also to show that we are really ready to move into this key reform, a reform that is a fundamental instrument for any other reform and ultimately a reform of this labour legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72255	Thank you. We move to replicas, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72256	Thank you, Vice President Batinic. Dear colleague Holly, I agree with your debate. You mentioned the need for a full reform of public administration and state administration. I am also in favour of reforming the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia because in that part we can find a lot of gaps so far. One is the creation in historical circumstances, the other is what we have today. And it's about working relationships, it's about people who, unfortunately, have and should have the right to work in some systems, but they really should. Without this whole reform, there will be no change, and there will be no possibility of anyone finding a job in future to be really paid for the work that he really did. I will once again emphasise the perilousness of this law, which is a fragmentation of certain provisions of the law because it is dangerous and destructive, because certain solutions so far are thrown into several laws. So it spreads this into several laws, and the right tendency should be to seek one codification of legal regulations in a quality labour code. Because what's going on with this? There is a possible, certain legal uncertainty. Unfortunately, we are also committed to reforming the judiciary and the judicial system, but in this part of protection of working relations, long-term procedures, compensation for damages, proof of whether or not the dismissal was legal or illegal, these proceedings can last for years. There's a judiciary I say, unfortunately, there's still a trom, there's legal uncertainty, there's jobs being lost. If we are really going to seek this complete reform, it is necessary and necessary. This government, in my opinion, needed, in that enthusiasm for winning the elections, and based on Plan 21 that no longer exists, to hit these key reforms that would then be understandable. Today, in half of the mandate, all that is said is to preserve another mandate of the current government. I don't think that's good. I support what you've said. You are a credible person about what you say. And that big reform is necessary and it will give sure to move if it really does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72257	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72258	Dear colleague, I'm sorry I won't be able to speak to you very much. Well, yeah, I think it's very important that we maybe go in the direction Denmark was headed at the beginning of this millennium when they went into a thorough public administration reform, as well as territorial administrations. It was related to what actually the clerks at different levels of government were doing. In fact, it was seen that the system was ineffective, that it was expensive, and then what did they do? They did a thorough analysis. On the basis of this analysis, they have made a particular proposal for a reduction and an exact definition of what level of government is doing which part of the work and which department powers do what types of work to avoid the fact that in Croatia you can go to another counter, go to another institution, and you can't really solve your problem. After that, I will not say short-term analyses and reforms have led to a system where you know exactly where who works, where officials are valorized based on their work, where in large numbers the number of local self-government units is reduced from about 200 to 90 and as far as regional self-government units are concerned from 15 to 5. The result of all this is much cheaper public administration with much more quality results. I don't think it's necessary to invent hot water, to apply those models that have proven good in practice and move in that direction, but that requires political will.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72259	Thank you. There you go, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72260	Comrade Holly, you have rightly indicated that occupying a model system from one country to another, one environment in the other is not good and indeed the labour legislation system in Croatia is resting on the German model. It was first implemented by this 1995 Labour Act and only for a reminder it came into effect on 1 June 1995, but it has in it a clause to enter into force and apply from 14 January 96, in order to make 7 months of adaptation to the new system and rest on the agreement of the social partners that this was the first step of the model, followed by the model of the establishment of the employment service according to the German model, the setting up of labour inspection as it is in Germany, the introduction of special working courts as it is in Germany and after five years of application to analyse the work of success, powers, functionality and potential conflicts of the competencies of the working councils and trade unions. So, in 2000, there was supposed to be an inventory of the model of partial copying of the powers of the working council from Germany into Croatian legislation. All of this is missing and this is now a hybrid model of the German Labour Act because the rest of us are no longer copied because of it and therefore it contains a series of dangers. I believe to the good and noble extent of the author that this can work, but because of the absence of these accompanying services, the formation of the model of the institution he bears in himself, and therefore it is good that you warned that copying an indig by only one segment cannot produce good results and that is now evidence simply of the experience in case we have failed with a copy system from a society that is yet different from us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72261	Thank you. Answer, there isn't. Marian Skvaric replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72262	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, my question is the same in this context at the beginning of your presentation you have indeed pointed out that this law is related to the bill of law and the law that is based on the German model in Germany. But at the same time, you said again, and I disagree that it is difficult to identify that part in some way because of the different cancers, the differences in economic growth, the freedom of the market in the different sources of the Captain. But let's ask the question of what you said to discover hot water, which is before chicken or egg, so I think that yet this law, the bill that came into Germany's German model, and that the example that in Germany today is in such an economic position in relation to this work, or we should wait in Croatia for it to be really big economic growth, full employment, so that we can then go with the amendment to this Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72263	Thank you. There's no replica. We continue to debate, Josip Boric, he is gone, losing his right to debate. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, gone, lost the right to debate. Nadica Jelash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72264	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the respected ministers with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. So in the previous discussions that we have heard today, very often the question has been raised and reiterated what actually happened since 2010 when the initiative was supported not to go into the amendments to the Labour Act, and now the Labour Act is changing. It turns out, in fact, that he wants to suggest that today's Labour Act is a kind of governmental claim to Croatian labour and it is really hard to listen today about how social Democrats reduce workers' rights. So let's repeat what happened compared to 2010, which are the changes. What's most likely changed the situation in the country, and the economic and the most drastic cumulative indicator of this change is precisely a huge number of unemployed. The worker knows that, and it has been said more than once today to the best protection when he works and when he receives adequate pay for his work. And this high unemployment is the result of a truly devastated Croatian economy, the Croatian economy fell by 12% compared to the pre-crisis year 2008 with industrial production as that economic activity that generates the largest number of new jobs and generates the most goods for export, so industrial production has dropped 20% in all of this. The next thing I know is that all the bills that the previous government kept pushing under the carpet and heavy billions of kuna came in. It's about shipbuilding, healthcare, etc. So, the budget deficit they showed in 2011 was 14 billion kuna, but EUROSTAT later last year found that the deficit was 24 billion, so 10 billion kuna is more than the previous government showed. All this has now come to the table, on the hands of the current government, the deficit has escalated especially in 2013 and Croatia is currently in the excessive deficit procedure that must be resolved in the next 3 years, so until 2016. Of course, the biggest problem in this financial consolidation is the revenue of the budget, so on the expenditure side will either be or has already been determined what will be cut, but the problem remains the revenue side and that is precisely because of the lack of economic growth. In fact, every percentage of economic growth, each point would bring a few billion new, fresh kunas. So it's not borrowed money, it's a new, earned money. So, the problem of all the problems right now is how to start economic growth in Croatia, and then economic growth should, of course, increase the number of jobs, i.e. employment. The growth will not be without investment, and the investor is not presently there, because the domestic business public and international business circles among other things resent exactly the rigid working economy. Finally, here in the Croatian Parliament, there were no objections that there is an anti-enterprise climate in Croatia, i.e. that the recent conditions make it difficult and slow for entrepreneurs to adapt more effectively to market conditions. It is the government's responsibility, therefore, to stress, that it is the government's responsibility to remove obstacles to investors, to ensure order and to ensure the entrepreneurial climate, so it is the primary task of the government. And this bill that we are talking about today, along with a number of other laws that we have already passed, is one of the tools in achieving this Government task. It is often mentioned that this bill has been accepted by positive German experiences. The workers answer, if you give us a law based on German experiences, then give us German salaries and give us German inspectors. Which government wouldn't want to do that if they could? Germany's salary cannot be paid, of course I can't give it to employers, let alone the Government because we don't have German productivity and because we don't have German competitiveness, and we can't, unfortunately, give it to German inspectors because we only have Croatian inspectors and they are who they are. The question is raised, and how do you ensure that the Labour Act is fully respected, so that it pleases the interests of both workers and employers, above all, in paying overtime? Because it is clear that the existing situation of exploitation of workers is not sustainable. This can be achieved by the incomparably more efficient work of inspection services on the ground, so what the Germans are doing. Since we do not have enough inspectors, therefore our government services cannot compare with the Germans, so inspectors cannot cover the ground in quality. Then, in some ways, workers themselves should be encouraged to change their behavior, so they protect themselves by reporting cases of violations of labour rights. Of course, the workers will answer that most often, we won't because we're afraid to quit. However, I argue that there is no need to be afraid to quit if it is registered collectively, if the employer is registered organised rather than individually. So the employer can't quit practically the entire collective and risk a long-term downturn in business and huge losses while he reassembles a team that will continue to do business. Business, therefore, must be in the interest of the employer in order to gain profits, but also for workers to receive adequate salaries. It must not be and it is inadmissible for an entrepreneur to make profits without paying workers wages and contributions, and for this purpose, the government has already passed adequate legislation. And it must not be that workers are paid small wages by the entrepreneur, while at the same time cutting and raking workers earning a great deal of profit. The majority of Croatian multimillionaires, and yesterday we heard that according to the number of multimillionaires in the region, we achieved our castles, its ergels of angry horses on four wheels, our yachts, our crafts and stuffed zoos exactly on the model of underpaid workers, and that is, of course, not only to rob workers, although it is primarily, but also to rob the state because the state or better to say taxpayers invest in the schooling of workers, workers of their skills and competences in the daily performance of their work in a product or service that the entrepreneur realises on the market, achieves an adequate profit and then does not pay the salary of the suitable value of the invested work, but much lower, and the difference actually benefits themselves. So, the damage is, as I said, primarily a worker, and then a state because the worker makes little money, spends little and a little bit of money on the state through the taxes paid, and that's, I'd say, one systemic, one systemic problem, the problem of social work and, at the same time, the private acquisition of the results of the work. Therefore, employers must be forced into socially responsible business because if we give them greater freedom, greater legal opportunities to edit working time, which is here in the Labour Law case, then it also implies greater responsibility for respecting and all other provisions of the law. I repeat, once again, that is why workers must be organised and can be organised, so if they can be organised for a general strike, then they can do so in cases and need it when the employer does not pay their wages, or when he violates labour rights. Therefore, workers, together with institutions, must assume part of the responsibility for establishing a labour market order and for socially responsible business. So the workers have to change, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72265	Thank you. We have a replica, Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72266	Dear Vice President, Ministers and esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you now because for the first time in this afternoon, it appears on the replica of Mrs. Nadici Jelas and her colleagues in the part where you speak of redistribution of working time in which you point out that just now the redistribution of working time will prevent the abuse of the employer from leaving workers to work longer than prescribed working hours by keeping records. And in the current law, the employer is obliged to keep a record that corresponds to the actual state of work of workers but also in accordance with the Labour Law, but some employers want to stress it, it will not and it is about abuse. It is hard to believe that workers will be organized and difficult to accept the fact that responsibility for it stands on the worker or that he can and must be organized and rebelled because just at a time when he has more and more work at a certain time and when he is preparing and agency work it will be almost impossible for colleagues. I also think that we should be legally but also with inspection work based on the responsible behaviour of employers because power is still in his hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72267	Thank you. My colleague Jelish's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The fact is, therefore, that this proposal of the Labour Act requires or obliges employers that overtime will have to be imposed by written means or by subsequent publication of a written order, and these orders will be subject to control. So the inspectors will be able to come into the company and seek insight into the orders that have been ordered to work overtime. And as for the socially responsible business, yes, I think our workers must change, too. So in the workers, of course, there was another spirit of socialism left in the employers, so she thought that someone else would take care of them. Therefore, workers themselves must be more guiding than themselves and carrying out their employer’s obligations to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72269	Thank you. Minister Miranda Mrsic called for the word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72270	Thank you very much, Vice President. Let me explain some things. So when we talk about German models of this change, it has nothing to do with German legislation, so they're based on those things that we had on the market, so with those examples that led us to make these changes. So the law is when it was written that the esteemed representative Lesar and noted he was written by example in German but had experienced so many changes and our adjustments. And these changes that we have now proposed have nothing to do with Germany and Germany were not our role models, but it was the fruit of what we had in the discussion with the social partners with the judges of labour law and with everyone else. I fully agree with you that it is necessary to reform the state administration and that the State Service Act will come very soon where we predict that the Labour Act will extend to both public and public services, so that all in Croatia will be settled with the Labour Act. As far as the fragmentation is concerned, the fragmentation is agreed with the social partners precisely with the aim of making the law legible and applicable and to be read by those who are not legal professionals. As regards pregnant women and parental leave, pregnant women are fully protected in Croatian legislation, so we have not reduced any rights, and as far as these changes are concerned, only maybe the problem with reading the law, so according to the current law of the person returning, the woman after parental leave if the employer has abolished the workplace, and this often happens, she has no place to go back and automatically gets fired after the current one. After our changes she returns if she does not have that job employer must offer her a second job. We also made it possible for women who remain pregnant and work in those places that are dangerous for pregnancy, for example If you work in the field of ionizing radiation due to the current legislation you could or may not stay in that workplace, you could only go to sick leave and have a lower salary. Now we have made it possible for the employer to give you a second job and continue to receive the same salary as you had in that pay in the field of ionizing radiation. Here's just those few clearings. So he's not our model German system. As for the German system, to strengthen the Croatian Employment Service, labour inspectors become inspectors as well as in Germany you have Aribeitsamt in Germany. As far as working courts are concerned, we have established a Labour Court in Zagreb, and I hope that we will also establish the system we had in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72271	I thank the ministers. Two replicas. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72272	Thank you, Vice President. So labour legislation certainly is not my area of expertise, but in preparation for this debate, I have consulted with people who are professional in this area and they have told me that there are certain ways to say the variations that have come from German labour legislation in this proposal. And what has led me further astray are statements by some members of the government and relatively recent ones who have spoken precisely about the fact that this law has been done according to a German model. Well, don't be surprised that people got that impression, if people from the government are talking about it, then we MPs can figure out who we're not exactly in this area of the house that I guess that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72273	Thank you. Here's your answer, Minister. You won't answer. The next replica of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72274	Minister, you're right. This labour law is not on the trail of the German model, especially the newspaper that it provides. But there is only a problem in the fact that, a month ago, a month and a half ago, the Prime Minister here, for this speaker, interpreting and announcing that the Labour Act would come into the process explicitly, precisely and clearly said that this Labour Act was doing the same thing that Germany did during the Shreder Agenda 2010. That is exactly how he explained it and taught us to study the German model of labour law reform. I even asked him to follow it and display the German model of collective agreements and to be present during the debate, of course there is no such thing. Part of the employment service is modernized, adapted and you're trying to adapt the labour market, right. And you're aware not to the end. But in the case of labour inspectors, labour inspectors and inspectors, you'll be more efficient, believe me, and your associates when you admit to yourself that it's at the beginning, that the situation hasn't changed in the past 15 years. When you admit it, then you will see how much more work there is in front of all of us that this inspection surveillance can prevent 40% to 45% of the court disputes that unfortunately end up in court in Croatia. And as far as working courts are concerned, there are but a minister in Zagreb, your colleague in the government, traveling through Croatia, announces the abolition of this working court in Zagreb and the full termination of the working court. Match the model and the story.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72275	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72276	Thank you very much and for your support that we are changing the Croatian Employment Service, we are changing that. For 15 years, nothing was done in the labour inspectorate. Do you remember when we were a couple, and it's not even a month ago, how much longer, when we talked about the labour inspectorate how many attacks there were on the government to disbanded the state inspectorate, why it's disbanded and you've now said yourself why the labour inspection really isn't and shouldn't have been in the State Inspectorate. We finally put things back where they were supposed to be and that means that finally the labour inspectorate starts doing what his job is, being efficient and not being what he was until now, which means he's not protecting the workers but being his own purpose. Therefore, the work is far ahead of us, the report will have on the work of the State Inspectorate, what is quite certain will work differently and their primary task is to protect workers. But on the other hand, the amendments to the laws on the Labour Inspectorate will also prevent a racket that was by the inspector working towards individual employers because it was known to go to that company to find some mistake that was not crucial for workers' rights to punish the employer. So, one new way to work, I hope you'll support that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72277	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Alan Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72278	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I would say, in most developed democratic legal states, unions are in the service of protection of workers and labour rights, perhaps only in Croatia is not. This claim is accompanied by the actions and actions of our unions united in the performances and calls for protests and strikes on the Proposal for a Labour Act. Namely, the profession, and not only the policy itself, says and confirms that it is a quality act that brings better days to labour legislation, which is the most important thing for the worker in Croatia. The fact is that a small number of Croats work, works for a large number of unemployed, those who are because they are unworthy of their job. But there's also a large number that unfortunately don't want to work. Those who work, work and work for pensioners who should not be, because of disabled people who are not real disabled, because of false defenders, because of many of the important things that have been accumulated all these years since the start of the state in the service of creating a voting machine that has spent years grinding all the good things in the Croatian worker, respected and respected everywhere in the world except in the Homeland. This had to result in a system failure, a reduction in the number of workers, and when I say so, we can say hardworking, conscientious, professional workers, and there has been an increase in that other group of those whose labour law would not work, perhaps only the Labour Act, not work, benefits and benefits. Because of this fact, ladies and gentlemen, these events are respected, this struggle for supposed workers, for a better, fairer state. And by those unions that have been silent for two decades, they sometimes appeared in the media with consumer baskets when they ruled them I'd say they let their tongues out as much as they liked it. They didn't care about the consequences of privatization or the forced harachus, they were nowhere to be found two years ago and a few years ago when protests of dissatisfied people began. Since the union, there has been no S. Now that they are recorded, determined and tried to solve for decades piled up problems in the economy, health care, education, sports, there are no areas that are not contaminated by corruption, crime, unhappiness. He's calling for street calls for a non-payment of 25 salaries at a health center in Lipik, which is ironic. Let me be clear, I'm for these workers in Lipik. A law on work that pleases employers under quotes and whom they will please. Well, I think that's enough. And those 1.5 million people who work are tired, weakened by taking, cheating, corruption, robbery, those standards of behavior all these years. Each employer wants to make a successful business, or make a profit. I think we can agree on that. It is true that, depending on the education of entrepreneurs or managers, the success and business of entrepreneurs are dependent, however, it has been demonstrated that employers who do not invest in education and quality and satisfied employees will not make adequate profits by their work. It is true that the employer will get rid of his employee who does not bring him a certain income or profit at his workplace. But there is a lower threshold of unsustainableness when the employer, due to ignorance, short-term goals, gets maximumization without a long-term sustainability strategy, will thus fail because he did not invest in the worker. Such employers will disappear from the market in the long term, only those employers will survive who will balance investment in workers and expect adequate results. You ask why successful companies, which are mostly owners of foreign labour regulations, invest in workers, have broken down entire human resource management strategies and finally workers, even though they complain about the amount of work in studies, are not ready to change those jobs. It is true that the short-term labour price declines by increasing the offer of workers pays the same rate, but also if a healthy part of the economy starts to grow then there is a demand for labour where exactly that the priority has a more educated, younger workforce, but with the launch of the economy market, the increase in demand creates hunger for workers. Don't forget that we now have 55% of the eligible population, from 20 to 64 years old. If we were to absolutely reduce unemployment to 0 in Croatia, we would have 65% of the eligible working population. The European Union requires 75% employment. So the existing Labour Act has some restrictions that have a significant impact on the business policy and on the employer's business outcome. Of course, it's about the problem of distinguishing workers from the unemployed. The existing law equally protects the employee who contributes to the company and sees it as his own, or as a kind of ATM from which he draws money and doesn't invest anything in it. I'll say personally to an example of an entrepreneur in my place who has an export of 100 million kuna. He decided to evaluate the worker, a little harshly, per kilo. As much as he earns a day, he'll get that much. There is a worker who has a salary of 7500 kuna and has a worker who earns 3500 kuna in the same working time. Is that good for a worker? It's not. The one with 3500 kuna says the folk "can't work as little as he can pay me". The law, I think, protects the same person as the worker, but also the unemployed. To be clear, no Labour Act can create a successful employer or a valuable worker, but in many ways it can limit the employer to be successful, or to destimulate a valuable worker from the unemployed. And finally, this law is definitely not meant to reduce workers' rights, on the contrary, but it is aimed at helping the employer not to be afraid of employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72279	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72280	Thank you very much. Comrade Prelec, you've done well with what I say in your style, working people are paying the Croatian state today, how many of those who are as you have spoken by your tongue fakes etc. But you have been in power for two years and what you have said is responsible, so if you are responsible, intervene in that area. But it seems to me that you're more performing from the position your prime minister is from, that the peasants are declaring parasites when they block the streets, that doctors are declaring the shut-offs, that pre-warrant deals are now openly favoured only by some and agreely favoured by some who, in agreement with some other and parties, are starting on trucks, etc., truck drivers. So the thing is, actually, from that position, you may not even have the right to say it the way you say it. When you talk about education, you talk about education and education. Perhaps you have a good example of Croatia's water leading in today's government of Kukuriku coalition and where education for 2013 was only for the first half, for the first 6 months it was 100 000 euros or about 750 000 kuna. What in Croatian waters has to be educated, and we see how education works on these floods, so the education of staff in Croatian waters. The new Labour Act will absolutely not improve the state of employment, i.e. reduce unemployment or have any intention whatsoever, the minister himself said would not improve unemployment in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72281	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72282	Well, here's my colleague Grubisic, I'm sorry you guys realized from my argument that I called the peasants parasites, God forbid. God forbid, not at all. I just wanted to make it clear and loud that this law should be taken away from those workers who should be paid more than those workers, which unfortunately we have very, very much. I, from my personal experience, and I was also a worker, I was also the director of the company, I was also the owner of my company, and today I am the head of a municipality where there are more than 20 employees. I can tell you that in my 25 years of working hours there were a lot of beautiful people, good workers, high-quality workers who earned even more pay than they got. But unfortunately in those 25 years, I saw people coming to work just to work and pay at the end of the month. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72283	Thank you. We're continuing the debate, Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72284	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry. Just 10 years ago, the then left center government adopted a new Labour Act, which then tried to offer answers to changes in industrial relations that were emerging. Then the public first met the topics that today are part of these discussions, which are flexibility, deregulation, liberalisation, etc. Therefore, this is not the product of today's ministry activity. We also remind that we think that it should be the goal of every social democracy, or social democratic society, to adopt a labour regulation that is particularly close to the unions. It is necessary for such a social democracy to balance the unequal negotiating positions of workers and employers and, above all, to protect the vulnerable side of this relationship, which is a foreign worker. We particularly appreciate the efforts of the ministry that you have done in the last year in order to create a good legislative model. And all of what we said today on behalf of the club and what I'm going to say in an individual debate in some respects to certain segments of this law is in order to improve this thing. So, not to be rigorously criticized, but to improve, and it's good that this is the first reading, and it's good that we'll have something to say about that model in the second reading. In our opinion, this new model of the bill further cements the division of work into two main sectors, which is the primary sector made up of permanent and certainly employed workers and is already being talked about by my colleague Holy. And the second is the secondary sector made up of sub-represented workers. Also, in these 10 years, employers are free to quit their cheap for double. Thus, they had previously paid 12 average workers’ salaries for their freedom, or layoffs. According to the new proposal, it is 6 average salaries. The current proposal of the Labour Act is designed in a way that implicitly blocks the work of the unions, affirms the Working Council as more or less advisory bodies, and the working dissatisfaction is thus directed by this model to the procedural procedures of calming and arbitration that are not simple. Therefore, social dialogue is marginalized, which we think may be the cause of many future disagreements when discussions are being held on this serious issue. The public debate showed the ministry's position on the basic task, which is the task it has given itself to stop unemployment and through two solutions. The solution is required in legal solutions related to atypical forms of work, work for a certain period of time, work on incomplete working hours and some other derivatives from these two models. The second thing is a lot to be invested in private agencies that give workers third parties a kind of leasing. We see that as in other activities in the trend outsourcing everything, and even the workforce. That's how we see it. Through this work, the employer's private agencies have a place to fully control and manage the working time of the workers. That's how it's gonna be in practice. This is particularly unfavourable for women, for in such a slippery time, women will find it difficult to reconcile their family and business life. And we know what implications later come from such a relationship. In addition, we consider the key issue related to agencies and the question of the price of workers through agencies. We think this proposed model opens up a space for quite manipulation when it comes to the price of workers working through agencies. And I think we're in the SDSS against hiring employees through the agency model. I think we said that on behalf of the club. And finally the data says that unemployment was 9.6% 10 years ago, now it's about 20% or something more. The finding that even when it was 9.6% and now that 20 was in effect the same ZOR, the Labour Act. Therefore, the Labour Act is not a factor in the fall in employment. It's some kind of conclusion that can be drawn from that. Also, analyses show that labour regulations are not the main limiting factor in the withdrawal of investments that we are all talking about. The labour price is 7 places out of 9 possible factors according to the FDI scale. The better-ranked factors are primarily the quality and educated structure of workers. It is therefore known that investment limits before the Labour Act the slowness of public administration, corruption, slow work of courts and a number of other factors. Furthermore, because of non-standard forms of employment, workers are reduced to consumer goods. What should have been an exception, which is temporary and occasional work, is now becoming a more common type of work. Since 2003, as many as 48% of all newly concluded work contracts have been here for a certain period of time. In my environment, we have a situation where people work in very serious companies for a certain period of time, and their perspective is that they probably welcome retirement in that status. The 56-hour working hours of this model cancels the overtime that was otherwise additionally paid, and now the extra hours will be beaten with a period when there is not so much work and there is some redistribution of some working time in the agreement, in agreement with the employer. Therefore, at the employer's disposition, we see that the whole thing wanted to be subdued under the category of seasonal affairs, that's the kind of seasonal business we usually have in tourism, we have in catering, but they're already regulated by contract annexes and we don't need to subdue the whole category, the subcategories of seasonal affairs. The conclusion is that, in our view, it is not good, nor will the excess work be paid to overtime workers, nor do they get a stronger guarantee by this law that this increased number of hours will be returned in another period. We need to strengthen this thing to gain the confidence of workers in a provision that regulates such a model of work. And ultimately variable work plus work up to 67 years of life as proposed and discussed, all this is about the reduced negotiating power of the union, and it's getting closer and closer to returning to us in a kind of before the union age that has not yet been established the right to so-called. Three eights, eight hours of work, eight hours of recreation and eight hours of rest. It was the ideal of union work and that ideal we had. The employment protection index is a completely neglected category here. In fact, the fact is that the index is always lower when market openness is higher and legal protection of workers is lower. It is one formula, however, it is welcome to discuss and analyse the overall impact of such legal solutions. Finally, the impression is that these legal solutions, i.e. amendments to the laws made by external regulators, should not be particularly smart there, so as to say that this is an international monetary fund, the European Commission and the European Central Bank, etc., etc. So that's the impression and we'd like it if that impression were removed. So we think that we need a second reading and what we've said and now and on behalf of the club we'd like to talk about it and if part of it were to be included in the draft law for a second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72285	Thank you. Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72286	Thank you. My colleague Horvat, as I commended your colleague from the club whose exposure I liked very much, so I like this presentation of yours today. I'll start at the end, so from the outside regulators as you said, shyly not to say it, but yet you listed the names of those regulators, there's also the World Bank. And you see the other day, representatives of the international monetary fund were in the Republic of Croatia. Not much is said on the subject of conversation but today, regardless of new ones, I'm going to say demonstrations in St. John's Square. Mark, here's this law, so persistently, blatantly, without any scruples, and regardless of the protests, it goes into legal procedure. In Croatia, as you know, and what the newspapers say, there are 285 billionaires. I would say that we from some early capitalism of early works and perhaps even a feudal age where we created feudals, 285 of them actually this law now go a step lower and it's actually a slave system in which workers as you said themselves, the main women will have big problems in which there will be social, worse situations, demographic poverty and everything that comes with that money and you problems. In fact, a man like the one who is responsible for the work will become the problem of the accident of the substrate of this particular man, and what will those who, according to this theory, are going to prescribe such laws under this law of work. Who will then work for them and create capital i.e. Money. Are they even aware of what this law of work means when external regulators influence this, this Croatian Labour Act. The overtime will not be paid as it is not paid today. We know how it happens in chains, how women can't report that they come an hour early and leave an hour later without getting paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72287	Thank you. My colleague Mile's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72288	Thank you. My colleague, therefore, I still think that although the ministry gentlemen with full rights claim that this is not the main Light motive for all these changes. I think that the external factors that are very important, even the key, are that they conditioned us to enter into this procedure to amend existing labour legislation, which is quite understandable to me. I don't have to agree with that, but it seems quite logical if we are entering a united EU single market of 500 million that has its strict rules of conduct and even in the field of labour legislation, then it is perfectly normal for us as a new country to come to that association to be corrected in that direction. Whether we will do well in this, is this exactly what is the most appropriate model for our space in habits, cultures, expectations, it is a matter for discussion but I am not surprised if these changes have occurred exactly according to the requirements of institutions that ultimately regulate in various ways and various mechanisms of the market of 500 million euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72289	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72290	You know what, me suffering in these amendments to the Labour Act? Is the key problem of the non-competitive nature of the Croatian product, which today is the actual price of work. Is the amendments to the Labour Act, is this pressure on the labour price, is this actually the pressure on the labour price in various circumstances, is the element that makes the Croatian product uncompetitive, which makes Croatian entrepreneurship uncompetitive and whether we are going to put this kind of pressure on the labour price, which may be another 10 to 15% eventually lower the labour price, will we be, will the Croatian product be more competitive, will these changes guarantee the creation of new jobs at all, the creation of new products and any shift of this society? And is there an analysis that shows that the key problem of Croatian production incompetence and the Croatian economy is high labour price? And where are those analyses that show that? Because this whole idea targets the price of work, in one form or another. Is that even the price of work? I don't think so, it's not the price of work part of those parafiscal duties which, from transportation, depreciation, credit costs, repromation prices, raw materials and everything else, imposes various pressures on Croatian product. And why, and that this measure, as someone said, is part of some systematic measures that will finally lead to Croatia's product being more competitive in these conditions in which the Croatian economy and society are presently located, it would seem to make sense. But this acts as a lever of force for those who have power over those who do not have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72291	Thank you, too. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72292	I thank my colleague Đurovic. So I said in the debate that I think, and I'm convinced because some data I read before this debate, that the price of work is a factor limiting 7th place in the total mass of factors that limit the competitiveness of our products. I think the fundamental question is, what is our product? So do we even have a product that is competitive on the European market of 500 million people? If we import everything, if statistics are devastating, the question is what we export and the question is what is the price of our product. We are probably at the price of the product, at the price of work, participation and the cost of working in the product somewhere in the middle between Romania and some developed countries, but we have the fact that in Romania today you have very high quality products like some part of the automotive industry that until yesterday was an unimaginable thing. So, the bottom line is not the price of work, it's the essence of investment and investment climate, the behaviour of society, so there's one good and pragmatic intention to create new investments. No one can say that the labour price, the labour relationship model, restrictive measures towards workers will lead to a new investment climate. I don't believe in that theory.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72293	Thank you. We're continuing the debate, Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72294	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. During today's session, we could hear a whole series of thesis and constructions related to the proposal of the Labour Act. I noticed one thing in particular, someone said that the time of crisis is not the time for talks or negotiations, but that it is time for arrangements. I can agree with such a thesis in principle, but I must add that when the deal fails and the deal is not possible because someone doesn't want to talk to you, then the time for action comes. This means that the responsible Government must take and propose measures without delay which, however unpopular and painful, can lead to a shift in the economy and the country's final economic recovery. No one here has the illusion that this law will in itself or for itself lead to the recovery of the Croatian economy. No, but he's one part, one segment of the package, the measures and reforms we've been taking since the day we took responsibility for the government. A colleague spoke of pre-warrant agreements as criminal, or criminal. That is not true, they are another measure we are taking to bring order into this country and to bring progress to Croatia. Much has been said about Germany, but the fact that the Social Democratic Government Gerhard Schröder was ready and at the cost of losing the election to adopt so-called. Hartz's reform and the 2010 agenda which was one of the key factors in German, I would say almost painlessly through recession. Today we are talking about some countries that they have managed to cope with the economic crisis, that they have managed to overcome it, and what have they done? They've been taking reforms, radical reforms that I'm listening to today, and we're obviously still not ready in Croatia. Now I'm going to ask you a question, is this proposed reform of the Labour Act timely? Of course not, so it should have been done years earlier. Germany began its reform in 2003, then Croatia, during the Social Democratic Government, unfortunately by leaving the government, began to stick its head in the sand and pretend that nothing was happening. Germany continued and by leaving the government, Gerhard Schröder, all retained the measures he had implemented. And no one is thinking of pulling them back today and no one is thinking of denying the fact that at the beginning of the implementation of these measures unemployment in Germany was 5.2 million workers, and after a few years, unemployment fell to 3.8 million. That's the facts. What does this reform bring? What if we're listening to fellow MPs so awful? So let's take the turn. The chapters of the labour contract relating to the isolated place of work have been simplified. What does that mean? For example, in Pula, there is an employer who is involved in making furniture from warriors, so that he can make it he has to take people to work at home because it is not economical for him to build a hall in which such furniture would be braided, which is not done by other competitors. We liberalize and enable him to do so and enable him to hire more workers, and he has arranged jobs. Furthermore, "the law introduces the possibility of an unequal schedule of working time for all employers, not only for those where work is organised in shifts. The labour intensity limit shall be introduced so as to limit the duration of this work to 56 hours per week or to the total fund of hours that the worker may perform over a period of four months to a maximum of 48 hours per week". Such a norm in a form that is far more devastating for workers than Croatia exists almost in all European countries. And I'm going to remind you here of another specific example of one of the river employers doing export work because he is doing projects both in Emirates and in Qatar, etc. who, due to an extremely large amount of work at one point, had to introduce overtime. All the workers accepted it, all the workers were paid neatly. And what happened? Tom came to the employer's inspection and got a fine of 60,000 kuna. Why? Because he worked, because he paid the workers. So what is this message to investors coming to Croatia? Such a bill makes this situation much easier. Furthermore, "the law stipulates that the right to choose a union commissioner has trade unions only with employers with at least 5 members". What's the matter with this? I had a chance to meet in practice with a company of cca 900 employees who had two unions. One with several hundred members who cared for the interests of workers and who work with the employer to improve it. There's another union, that union had two members, and those two members changed every six months as commissioners. Why? To protect workers' rights? No, to protect yourself. This law prevents it. Furthermore, we have a cancellation period that does not run during temporary incompetence to work. "The working relationship under the bill certainly ends no later than 6 months after the date of the delivery of the decision to cancel the labour contract." Another norm that's unfavourable at first sight. But I'll tell you one more truth, as a lawyer to every employee who came to me with a job fired from the employer, I said go to the doctor. And do you know why? Because the doctor was opening up to him at the same time, and after 42 days had passed, he'd come to work for two days, and then he'd get another 42 days and so on for years. Well, that's got to do it. Well, this isn't normal. The situation we have now is not normal. This bill is not a revolution but one necessary shift in the demand for balance between the protection of workers' rights and protection of employers' rights. We can't pretend it's all worked out by now, that everything worked out. We have to change. Look around you, yesterday we talked to the Anti-Corruption Council about pre-departure settlements, so they weren't passed because we think this measure is ideal. They were implemented because in Croatia there was obviously something wrong in all areas of our work and functioning. We can reject this law, we can refuse other reform proposals, but ask yourself, if this law and it will not bring revolutionary shifts, giving up such proposals will only bring the reverse and departure of the Republic of Croatia into a much deeper crisis than the one in which we are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72295	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72296	Thank you very much. You have set an example of Mr Gerhard Schröder and his working legislation, which you say has changed the situation in Germany on the matter of labour legislation and at the cost of losing the election. I don't know why you didn't immediately apply this same working legislation if it is spoken today and even about translation from German and the application of German labour legislation that is still in force today, or if you saw that you were going to lose the election anyway, and after two years and two, three months you decided to change these positions in the working legislation. You yourself said you wouldn't start entrepreneurship, that you wouldn't run something special that you listed as one small wheel in all these elements of improving the entrepreneurial climate. Mr Horvat spoke of the price of work at 7th place of 9 limiting competition factors. So I don't know why you're doing this kind of labor law now, and here you actually have no risk at all, and you're losing the election anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72297	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72298	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Grubisic you can hope for, but of course that will not happen. However, we are also willing to risk losing the election knowing that we are doing what is good for Croatia. This is not a party of politicians, this is a party of responsible people who do not care whether we win or lose the next election. It is crucial that, as for some others, there is no desolation. Now, you asked why this law is being passed after two years and two months of office, and I will very simply answer your question. So because we spent these two years and two months talking, negotiating and trying to agree with those who should be partners in implementing reforms. Did we do it? We didn't. And why didn't we? Because those who are supposed to be partners don't listen, they don't hear, and they don't want to do anything. They are used to some of the past governments being bribed, bribed, and satisfied with all the moments because some were afraid that their workers would not come before the Parliament, before the government. We let it happen, we're not afraid of workers. We're not afraid to go out in front of them, we're not afraid to talk, but we're not afraid to tell them. What we don't have money for, we can't promise you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72299	Thank you. The next replica of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72300	Comrade coat of arms, you have the right to list everything from Germany, but not selectively. What did Herr Shredder do with those who didn't pay the workers' wages? What did Germany do with those who falsely applied to a minimumer and paid the difference under the table? What did Frau Merkel do with a minimum satin in Germany? What did they do with both those who profited from the company and the month, two after that ended up losing and bankrupting God? What did they do with those who began to make profits from Germany, invest in other countries? What did they do with those who didn't pay taxes to the state? How does Germany sanction the conflict of the interests of state officials? Something a little less. Second. When it comes to the limitation of the overtime fund, it is not only invented to limit it, but the restriction is put in place to stimulate employers not to force one and the same to the unconscious to work 56 but to hire others who are on the market. This resulted in an overtime of 8 hours a week, 12, 10 depending on the state to the state. That is the function of the state to tell employers eight hours a week you can no longer hire others. And they lied to those who could not work and were punished, and they were able to hire other workers. It's a function of limiting the funds of overtime. That's why it happened. And in the end, the examples of good that you made out of the Law as examples of improvement. But they're not slow, they're not controversial, it's agreed, the unions agreed to it. That's not at all controversial, all the examples you've set. Those who are controversial are the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72301	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72302	Here's dear colleague Lesar, I'm glad you agree with me on the example I set and the example of redistribution of working time, and I'm glad you support it as something that's not disputed. And I'll tell you as an ex-employee, that in principle it would be ideal if for an increased amount of work I could hire a new worker. But, you know, it happens to me that on Friday in the mailbox in court there were five verdicts to write complaints on. I can't go to the employment office and hire another lawyer to write those complaints with me. I can only work with those who were in my office, sat down and studied these items. And right then and just like that, it takes this redistribution of working time. And every employer who holds on to himself and who is aware of what a good worker means to him, and you believe that is a true employer, he knows that such a worker cannot replace. It will provide him with adequate pay and will provide him with an adequate holiday. And again, what you were saying about the examples from Germany. And you're right about that. And it is true, this reform of labour legislation wasn't the only thing that brought Germany where it is. This reform should be monitored, but I said so. This reform is only one part of the systematic reforms and changes this government is making. From what you said, yes, the tax administration works, goes around, controls those who cheat the state, reform the inspectorate. And the inspectorate will go around and control those who cheat on the state and cheat on the workers. We're courts, we've also worked in the area of criminal law. Disbursement of wages is a felony. One of the first measures was to pay the salaries automatically and the contributions and taxes, without which there is no payout. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72303	Thank you. Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72304	Thank you very much, Vice President, Mr. Secretary with your associates. Here's unemployment, unfortunately, is a real fact that we're all aware of. However, we must remember that unemployment is most recruited from the decline in industrial production, or industry. I will mention here the conversion and privatisation, or Sinj Dalmatinka, with which I grew when exports were greater than 50% of total production. She was, of course, destroyed. Today the culture of work is also mentioned, the culture of work is lost, almost lost. It has just begun to be a loss of culture of work by converting and privatizing when we were getting a social message that was different from those of the educational measures we've been implementing, which is that you have more schools, you're worth more, the more you're doing. However, the example of conversion and privatisation has given us a completely different social message, which is that tycoonism can be achieved in a very bad way. The labour law certainly is sensitive matter, but it was talked about today and the sensitivity of the moment. However, I agree with colleagues who advocated that the moment should have actually been before. It's one part of the reform that actually started in labour legislation, it's the protection of workers. I will mention only a few laws that have been passed, which is the Employment Encouragement Act, Job Support Act, Public Sector Payments Act, Professional Rehabilitation Act and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities. It is then a reform of the pension system, i.e. a reform of the social system. When we talk about competitiveness and security, it cannot be asked only in one law, it cannot be sought only in this law. I think that competitiveness and security is the issue of all public policies of this government, that is, this country. In fact, the role of the state is to adapt to the real impacts of the environment, i.e. adaptation to one default reality that is. The free market is actually imposed as one reality, but the best way to adapt to this environment must be found. Croatia is also a country that when we look at and in terms of employment, it is actually a country that offers both free education and free training for those who want, who know, who can. When we talk about the social state, we keep saying that Croatia must be a social state and I agree with it, but we cannot think that it is a social institution, but it is one that actually offers guidelines for standardising certain labour rights. She doesn't force them. There was a speech today about the flexibility of work. I believe that this flexibility of work actually prevents and works on black, prevents the gray economy. It certainly does not endanger the working status of an individual, but it encourages a personal professional achievement at any level. When we look at deindustrialisation in such a world, I think that my own knowledge is one of the basic resources, and that's what needs to be concentrated on. We need to start believing in ourselves, our young generations need to believe in their own knowledge, especially in these. No more guys with helmets because it's actually deindustrialisation. Therefore, this knowledge is important, and it is a matter of training, professionalisation or affirmation. It is necessary to provide an opportunity and create actual frameworks, and in this way if there is an opportunity and if the frameworks are then surely citizens will be able to achieve what they want. So the government, or the state, needs to take measures. I just mentioned social care, or social reform, and there we can see an example of activation for workable people who actually enter the world of work. When you look at the social care benefits themselves, they don't turn off automation when people are busy but leave some kind of three months of adaptation. As far as more welfare centres are concerned, only networking with HZZ is actually being introduced both structure and records. So when you look at everything together, I think it's very important to introduce the structure, and when you say what we've been doing so far, I think we've been doing a lot of work on that structure. We also cannot view workers as one isolated unit and just look through this Labour Act. The worker was invested, the education was invested, employers were invested, invested with various incentives, and therefore labour rights cannot be seen in isolation. It's actually a synergy of more factors that have contributed to someone being able to work. I think we're all, I can't say obsessed but we're all kind of, we want to be safe, we're having a hard time moving, we're having a hard time adapting to new working hours. I think if we have one time, somewhere we're busy, that's how we're gonna get to retirement. However, we must understand the change and we must adapt and, of course, the legislation should be adapted in this direction. We are part of the European Union, we are part of an association of the European Union country which also imposes certain rules. In the European Union, it is necessary to adapt if we want to deprive that image of a small beautiful transition country, but destroyed by privatisation or by the original accumulation of capital that occurred during the 1990s. We mentioned today, and we often mention that we need investments, of course we need foreign capital inflows to start the economic cycle. The law should also give answers somewhere for these investors, i.e. who can come, how can come, what are the conditions. The terms are now somewhat Nazi from this law. The law does not mean actually the free sale of cheap labour but is actually trying to provide as wide a choice for employment as possible. This law also allows mothers with young children to work, even from home. I hope you can do it through this law too, which is very important. In this way, you can reconcile your family life with your professional life, which is certainly the goal of every mother. I also welcome this article 31 when, in fact, it prevents real job loss if the job is already lost where the woman who was at the maternity, the birth that came back, so she can go back to another job. It's important to keep the job if it's already this, it's quite clear to me because there have been some misunderstandings about it. Therefore, these difficulties, which were related to the arrangements of working time, the intensity of flexible range and the introduction of order, are, in fact, the introduction of order, are easier to follow in this way because, as the employer says, it is really written to warn, to inform its worker when and where he will work overtime. In this way it is actually the introduction of order because it is easier to see or monitor in companies Evo colleagues and colleagues, I believe that the Labour Act is part of the reform measures of Croatia's competitiveness, preserves jobs and creates preconditions for new jobs, which is in fact the goal of all. I think by the second reading that it's going to come out, because, of course, there is no return, the relationship between employers and workers should be regulated to the satisfaction of each other. Of course, we should always look out for the protection of workers, and we should also enable employers to work or to enable the competitiveness of our work or our market, and I hope that, until the second reading, they will actually adopt these remarks that have been made somewhere on behalf of the SDP club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72305	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72306	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shimac, I see you've praised as well as these numerous SDP speakers today, I don't know if it's a party task or not. But let's get to your point of view. So, today, when a fine was paid, in criminal law we have at the time of these trucks and they had 80,000 of those who worked and didn't receive pay, and at the time of the Kukurik coalition here to this day we have 70,000 workers working and not receiving pay. Despite the criminality, therefore, the possibility of criminal persecution by such employers, including 15000 of those employed in companies where the state is overweighted by the owner. Here's a Lipik example, etc. How do you think that after this flexibility, deregulation and liberalisation on this issue will be even better? No, it won't get better, it'll get worse. I don't see any improvement in this working legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72307	Thank you. Answer me. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72308	My colleague Grubisic, as I recall, we had more workers who were actually working who didn't get paid. Therefore, by our intervention, we have reduced that number by legal intervention. So we have already shown in which direction we are going, and we have also brought in various other programs that work in this direction to protect workers. Because of course we hold that a worker should have his job and be paid fairly for that job. As far as flexibility is concerned, what we've been saying today through this Law of Work of Opinion I'm sure it will contribute to the preservation of jobs, and I've also told you examples of how I see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72309	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate. Ivana Posavec The Sinner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72310	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we've been discussing this a long time, a lot of us have been reported. And it is always a fact that the amendments to certain laws in the field of labour legislation, especially when we talk about changes to the basic labour law, fall into a highly sensitive social issue. Any amendments to such legal provisions shall be viewed under an increase and shall always be measured to whom it is to benefit, whether it is to the benefit of a more employer or to the benefit of more workers. Perhaps it can be some starting point, some point of view from which we can look today at all that this Labour Act will bring to Croatian society or what has already been done as an integral part of the reform that it is part of. When we ask what it's like to start and stop working then we look at it from two angles. We view it as an employer and employers certainly the creation and termination of a working relationship psychologically and legally demanding action. He must do it according to that worker with all the consequences of the worker, but also the ones he carries. On the other hand, the establishment and termination of a working relationship for each worker is free to say the most important but also fatal decision no matter how many times it happens in a working life. She leaves the consequences of the worker, of his family, of his safety, of all questions concerning his family. And that's why I'm not surprised that today despite the great interest of the media, which, despite the great interest of the public here today, we are discussing everyone who is discussing full emotion. But these emotions, of course, come from the circumstances in which we discuss this Labour Act. We argue today with protests, settle for and against. Right here in this assembly we share those who are for workers and those who are against workers. We rarely in these debates have raised the fundamental issues, the issues that are the social nature of work, the issues that these changes in the world of work have taken place in Croatia in the last 20 years or in Europe in an environment which we as Croatia belong to. We don't wonder what's bringing us globalisation, technological development. I ask the question of work in Croatia as traditional issues, issues passed by by our parents, our grandparents, who had the habit of getting a job after schooling which allowed them by the state, getting a job at work, and just that of their most frequent first job to go to deserved retirement. And they're lucky today that all of us here are about a million and a half more than we can fill with just 18 billion pension budgets and provide these daily, or monthly pensions for all of them. And every month and every year we actually create one conscious minus because it was always a traditional question and there was nothing to open up to. But when we look at the European environment or when we look at the American environment, then we are aware that there are quite different circumstances and that in these different circumstances, our hardworking workers are very successful in the labour market, they are recognised and appreciated as quality workers. In America, it is perfectly normal for an employee to change 13 to 15 different jobs in his working life in order to change his residence, address, residence, and move from the east to the west coast along with his family and search for existence. That hasn't come back to life with us yet. We open up other questions all the time and we think that someone else is responsible for our job, that someone else is responsible for our salary and for what we should do from month to month. And of course, as a colleague here said, that is a question of a culture of work, that is, a question of the character of work, values, social goals, development, the establishment of a good society, but also of community and people as a whole. And on these grounds, I am as sure as I am that this Law must not make it difficult or diminish the country's opportunities for economic growth and social development, because in this very economic growth as Nadica Jelas was mentioned in her debate lies the possibility of creating new jobs only when we ensure economic growth and when we make sure that progress for the country we can expect that by opening new jobs we will provide safety for new families, provide new jobs and actually reduce this one balance that is now not in any way natural. Let us be aware that the objective picture of the state of the Croatian economy is certainly not good, let us be aware that we have not now come to it in the last three months, in the last two or three years, but that it has been the product of everything that Croatia has been going through as a small country for the past 20 years, there have been privatisations, there have been war casualties, there have been movements since the beginning of all events, there have been search and wandering but here today we are, and I think as a responsible authority and responsible position in this country we should actually look into the truth and tell all those who follow us in this debate through small screens, whether they have tried to be here at the gallery this morning or those who, through the markets, have seen the transmissions following our discussions, say that Croatia actually has a problem with contingent labour, that there is a problem with huge underemployment and the lowest rate of active population in Europe. That's exactly the result of the high unemployment rate. If we wanted to be correct and move away from politics then we would use the data presented by the Zagreb office of the World Bank where one medium calculated how the flexibility of the labour market in Croatia has increased and precisely on the results of this government or the results of the laws that we have all brought together here in this Croatian Parliament over the last two years. It is clear and completely evident that a quality and positive shift has occurred in reducing labour market rigidity, which is one of the key obstacles to investment and growth in the economy. We said with the growth of the economy we hope to create new jobs. Labour legislation has been marked as very rigid and is now considered to have been significantly reduced. Croatia was on the 2.67 index and now on 2.33 and thus Croatia ranks as a group of countries such as Belgium and Germany. Of course we are specific and we cannot handle everything as Belgium and Germany, but these are certainly good indicators, 2012 and 2013 to improve the labour market, a number of good shifts have been made, which were in fact a major reform. There were a lot of responsible laws, today you'll all remember that, many of you have spoken with indignation about fiscalization, and that fiscalization is part of the protection of workers because fiscalization, for example, in catering, when you sit in a cafe or at a gas station pours fuel, exactly on your account, it says who served you and by that fiscal register today you can monitor whether people work eight hours, whether they work overtime, whether they're paid for it. There are elements where then inspection needs to do its part and where we can have means monitoring. We have abolished our privileged pensions to also release the very problem side of income and cut expenditures to disburse means everything that needs to go from work. This has already been mentioned many times that we have said about payouts without contributions that it is a crime. We've got reliefs for new employees. We are wondering today what the labour price is and how we can influence it, have we forgotten that for two percentage points we have brought down health contributions to leave healthy money with employers to invest in new driving processes and to actually ensure competitiveness on the labour market, to maybe invest in the education of our employees and to create a new job tomorrow, and this new job if we create it in the middle of where people live, means in collaboration with local self-government units, not that the local self-government units as counterpart Salapić said we view it as places where people work and don't know what they do and what they should do. So the moment we take units of local self-government as partners and put an entrepreneurial impulse through them and everything that can contribute to the economy, I'm sure we'll be able to make big leaps. And of course my time is running out, there's a lot of things to say and there's a lot of things being said. I will only end with this being a safe law that must respect the principle of the protection of workers, that this is a law that has open questions in the first reading, we should not be afraid of them, we should not run away from them, we should call for dialogue and debate and this is exactly today, is actually an opportunity for dialogue and debate, and I am sorry that those who are calling for it today are not with us and are not participating in it but are somewhere on other sides and are looking for some other balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72311	Thank you. Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72312	Thank you very much. My colleague, I'll start at the end of your debate. So this law is passed, or goes into reading by principle take or leave. So don't accuse anyone, we're here to discuss this law when you've already put it on the agenda, even though it was an opportunity to take it off the agenda. But it's your decision, you have most of it. You talked about this, about the great successes of this government, your government that took down 2% of the health insurance contributions from 15% to 13%. We know what these effects have produced in health care and the state of health. We know about the doctor's duty in health care, illegal, your minister's duty. We know about shift work, and we know that he's personally responsible for an increased waiting list in hospitals, in health homes, so for an increased waiting list and for a disorder in hospitals that started by introducing shift work mainly in surgical branches, but I didn't want to say it. You compared America, so it is not Germany and Germany with Croatia. Well, America is an economically highly developed country, Germany too. At the unemployment rate, it's completely different. Besides, what are the fees when someone goes to the market in Germany, and what is our salary, what is it in Germany, with the German employer? Well, you can't compare Germany and Croatia, not at all, it's apples and pears, it doesn't matter. So the working laws of America and Germany are legislation that are in developed economic countries. Croatia in this situation where there are 400,000 unemployed, when there are very few employees in that economy, it simply liberalises this labour legislation to that extent that there will be real money and some problems, according to Professor Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72313	Thank you. Answer, there you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72314	Thank you, Vice President. Well, buddy, you've said a lot of things now that I don't have the need to show each other, but I'm sure I'll tell you that we need to compare, we need to strive for the better, we need to know how the consciousness of the population is developed in other countries, we need to know what is normal in our environment, and then we need to compare in relation to what we have and from what circumstances we come from, in what circumstances our economy is doing and in what circumstances we find the country. All that we're saying today may sound rude, maybe it's not nice to hear it, but we're saying what's true, we don't deceive the public, we're not lying here, but we're not even stealing by acting in power. If that's how those before us acted, I can't say, you've always been in opposition, you're always in a situation where you can have a more comfortable story and it's easier to replicate when you're not acting responsible for exactly this big and important reforms, but you can't avoid the fact that there are results here and that these results are important for Croatian citizens and that they will see them very soon because the number of unemployed will decrease because the basics exist and will certainly show that the right path that we are seeking is to correctly compare with the countries, developed EU countries, with countries that are socially conscious, who are working and who provide everything that we want to our population. We are not running away from the fact that for our worker there should be quality education, lifelong learning, that we need education reform, that we need a number of other reforms, but we are working on it, and I believe that the result will be visible to both yours and my children.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72315	Thank you. Next up for discussion, Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72316	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So here's what I'm going to try to do in this brief debate once more to underline the reasons and objectives of amending the Labour Act. The actions we take must always correspond to the time, space and space in which we are located and where we live. What are the problems that have been seen as the starting point for changes between the other and this law. First of all, this is an economic crisis, and today there have been many words and growths in unemployment. Unacceptable share of the grey economy and work on black, too long a procedure for quick adjustment of employers to emerging market circumstances and loss of human capital due to too low employment rates and long-term unemployment. The government has adopted a series of measures and laws to assist entrepreneurs and encourage investment, and to that end this bill, which sets out the minimum legal frameworks governing the relations of stakeholders. It should once again be pointed out that this proposal of the Labour Act governing labour relations in the Republic of Croatia meets the principles, criteria and criteria of the social state and social justice as well as the systems of the Western European states. The dialogue is desirable between all partners, but if possible. The conversation also involves listening to second and different opinions, if that is missing, that is the problem. There's something special I'd like to warn you about. Today, counterpart Lesar, who is not here now, said over 50% of entrepreneurs were created in privatisation. Privatisation was done during Homeland work, privatisation is one of, let's say, the legal sins or the sins of our society, committed when it was not meant to be carried out, and we must not forget that it was done under the laws of that time. A later review found only a part of the privatisation criminal proceedings, but most were carried out under the laws at the time. It wasn't moral, but it was legal. But today is inadmissible, in fact, and it's a completely wrong starting point if today's entrepreneurs are thus classified and we're talking this one came into privatisation, this one isn't. In fact, it's completely irrelevant now that they made the first million, it's important to realize that they are also part of these stakeholders, one of the 3 interested parties with government and unions. And what's the employer's interest? So if we're talking about employers as most employers who have proper interests, then their interest must be a competent and educated worker. Let us remember the words of Ford, who long ago said that it would be easier to bear losing halls and machines than people and organization. It is not so easy to replace a worker although many employers who do not work well are threatening with a bookbook, but imagine how difficult it would be to replace a surgeon or a worker who, in addition to his expertise, has a long-standing practice. Therefore, this law must first and foremost enable employers to adapt rapidly to dynamic changes in business and market conditions, encourage employment based on flexible forms of employment and more clearly identify individual institutions in the Labour Act. For example. annual vacation, right to strike, etc. ...discharge the content of the new Labour Act. The weak side of this bill, the same thing is said, is the most about the flexibility of working time, working through the agency. It's worth it here, and the minister said, it's worth mentioning that people work 60 hours today, especially in construction and catering activities, and then it's better to sort out that part of the story. Of course, until the second reading, there is the possibility that the dialogue, which the minister is calling for, will improve this proposal, and today's debate has taken place in this direction. I wouldn't be long. I personally support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72317	Thank you. Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72318	I'm not gonna owe my colleague Sagar, either. So when you say about Mr. Ford, when he says it doesn't matter if he burns down both his halls and his machines, he's an important worker, a good worker. So how do you explain when 10,000 young people, educated people, go to the Republic of Croatia every year, are the successes of your government. When 500 doctors asked, some have already left, so they do not go beyond those who will have no success and who are not sure of their success but those who are safe, who are experts. That's the result of your government's work in these two years. How do you explain that when you say "Government", what investment? Can you list me with any investment from those strategic ones announced by your Vrdoljak, Minister of Economy and Vice-President of the Government that weighs more than 100 million you say kuna? What are these strategic? That's what Cacic promised us until he went to prison, now he promises us Vrdoljak, so you give me any investment bigger or harder than that, why don't you tell me? Third, privatisation, yes, and the trucks did it, we know how it was privatized. But this pre-fashion deal, too, is actually a form of retaining what was acquired by crime in privatisation and conversion. So I'm not saying that every pre-fashion settlement was made according to that principle, but it came to your Minister Linic's confession that there was also crime in the execution of pre-fashion deals. It is said publicly clear and loud that the Pre-primary settlement law must be changed, that is said, it will soon be in the legal procedure with us at the benches in the Parliament because it has happened that the holes in the law have been used and the pre-departure settlement is a form of retention of privatisation crime. And then one more thing, you said the employer's interest, so the employer's interest is only profit and nothing more, just profit. It's an employer's interest, there's no other, there's no improvement in employee education, it's just working, it's working... second.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72319	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72320	Dear fellow Grubisic, so here I am not used to doing this but I must tell you that I am not now many years old but I remember a lot, too, you can't say I don't think it's serious to say that because of this government people are running from the Republic of Croatia. You see, things don't happen overnight. For two years, this government has a responsibility for the state of affairs, but we haven't slept through what happened before, and we talked here when we talk about the privatisation of the 1990s, it's been a lot, a lot of water through the mill, but we can't say that now only this government is to blame for everything, and of course things are being solved and trying to solve it, but if you keep coming up with new problems that you didn't even know about, then it's so much harder. As far as investment is concerned, you could find 23 investment projects with obstacles that prevent the continuation of investments of approximately 1.2 billion euros, which will create around 2860 jobs. Removed barriers to 11 investment projects of approximately 500 million euros, which will enable around 2,000 people to be employed, etc., you can read this on the government's pages. So once again, the government adopted an investment proposal totalling around 70 billion kuna of which is 20 billion in the public sector, and 50 are expected from the private sector. So the truth is and it's the same thing as the debate over this law, and I see that you have this problem that you don't want to listen to that side just what you're saying that you think is absolutely true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72321	Thank you. Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72322	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today we had a very, very long discussion about the Labour Act, a very broad public interest which I think is logical. We are talking about a fundamental law that regulates labour relations, and since we are all participating either as employers or as employers, that is exactly what the labour market is and it is understandable that the great interest is aroused. A lot has already been said, I will try to be a core and make contributions that I consider important for the debate. First of all, we need to do a retrospective which is the current state of our labour legislation, and often when we talk about our working legislation, and I think I can say something because I was in a position to be both an employer and an employer, it is that our legislation is rigid and not flexible. Being rigid and unadjustable on any market will tell you every graduate economist is straight to death. The labour market as well as any other market is extremely dynamic. Tempo is constantly increasing, faster, more often changing, needs are changing, market requirements and employers are changing as well as employers. We are witnessing that certain occupations are extinct in the generation as well in the same generation new occupations are born. We can talk a lot about it, I've already talked about it in this House, and I'm just going to give you an example of a blacksmith who's been extinct in a generation before or let's say the carpenter of occupations that are slowly extinct and who I don't believe will experience my children's children for sure won't. So new ones come, new occupations come because society as such is changing and the needs of society change. trends change, needs change, work from home, businesses work on flexible working hours, labour intensity is different for each profession and so on. The primary task of working legislation, if you ask me, is primarily the protection of workers. The protection of workers is what needs to be highlighted. We've heard a lot of stories about social democracy, about the values of social democracy, and the protection of workers and workers is certainly one of them. This law does not reduce the notice period, does not reduce severance fees, does not reduce the powers of the worker representatives. So I don't see any higher objections to the burden of workers. What was certainly a burden for the Croatian society, the economy, the labour markets, is the default of salaries. She must be a criminal. She thanks to this government is a felony. That wasn't a rule before, so you have to ask yourself, and who was it in the interest to let that happen? Also in the 1990s, if I'm not wrong about paying my salary and not paying my contributions, it was also illegal, so suddenly there was no job. And you need to ask again who was in the interest of who? Now it's not possible to pay the salary without paying the contributions. In fact, many went to retirement, a well - deserved pension to discover that their pensions were low because the contributions were simply not paid. Those workers have been fooled. These workers were deceived, and that's why these legal initiatives were meant to protect them. The reality of the labour market is one completely different thing. My point is that it should be possible for anyone who wants to do it legally. That's what they do. To do business according to Croatian laws. The grey economy is unfortunately still still present in Croatia and partly due to the rigidity of Croatian legal frameworks. So someone who wants to work and has different needs that the law doesn't foresee, who wants to do it by law, is disabled just because the law doesn't foresee it. Some labour inspectors will punish it precisely because there is no other way for an employer and I would say either warn or instruct him to do otherwise. So we're not talking about exploiting employers, we're talking about a partner relationship, first of all, between the employer and the employer. We talk a lot about the protection of workers but I think I can say that the protection of workers in private employers is not as pronounced as in public and public services. They often do not have the opportunity to organize themselves into unions, often their opinion is ignored and they do not want to be heard, and precisely because on the market, labour market there are still many people with similar expertise who are looking for work, who are willing to do it and do nothing. Unfortunately, that's our reality. And the development of the labour market will believe and contribute to employers' different attitudes towards their workers. Because here's what my colleague Sagar took from me, and I wanted to say that first of all the employer's interest should be a happy, satisfied, educated and motivated worker. Because yes, his interest is profit but a better worker creates more profit. I'll tell you one example from my own employer experience. So the company I ran had, like, six months a year, maybe a little less of an extremely intense working rate. It worked overtime, it worked very hard. While the other six months that pace was somewhat more relaxed. This legal framework would have allowed me, as an employer, to redistribute the simple working time of my builders, and in this way I believe that it would fit them, so they would have more time, they would have received the same pay and would have worked during the period when... There's less work to do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The last legal framework didn't allow me to do that. Often at the expense of the company and also at the expense of the workers themselves who had to work far above the prescribed standards. Therefore, the development of the labour market should above all be a priority. I think this law is a step towards it and that we will be better off when employers ask what they can do and when they can do, so their skills and work can be appreciated. And in the end, I'd like to call for dialogue. This isn't the final bill. This is the law in first reading. By the second reading, he will surely experience some changes. So we're all invited to dialogue, any opposition, any position, any parliamentary representatives, any trade unions, any workers. There's still time and I call for dialogue. But as my colleagues said before, dialogue must be two-way. The dialogue cannot be a monologue, dialogue must be listening and respecting both positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72323	Thank you, too. Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72324	Thank you very much. You see, colleague Hajdukovic, you are a young man, and with a lot of the arguments that you have presented, however, I agree completely with some. Namely, this Law and labour legislation is the future of both your children and perhaps my grandchildren and the survival of the entire society and the state. That's what others have been talking about, especially my colleague Pupovac and Horvat Mile. So, labour legislation and labour rights, as you say a satisfied worker whose well-being is an interested employer, and I think he is primarily interested in profit and I forgot to say fast profit. We have liberal wild capitalism in place and will be the main reason why the Prime Minister says he is a conservative liberal for some time. So it has nothing to do with socialist politics at all, not even that Shredder in Germany. It's something else entirely. It's Friedman we're not talking about. But from the gray economy that you've been talking about and which today is taking up about 20, 30% of the total economy we're actually going to get everything in, I'd say in black capitalism, with black employers doing exactly what you say they're not paying for contributions and the crime is not paying for wages. And now you tell me, here's where you are, how many trials do we have against, criminal, criminal proceedings in the state and we have 70,000 workers who don't get paid today, how many criminal proceedings have been initiated? Who's being punished for that? Here. And together, we have voted a crime of non-payment of salaries. Let's see how many criminal proceedings have been initiated? I don't know any.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72325	Thank you. Answer, colleague Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72326	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, a colleague can agree with you, and I'm glad we found some common topics. First of all, what I would like to emphasise is the evaluation of work unfortunately in Croatia is on one very low branch. And as for employers, first of all, but I'm also afraid to a certain extent of establishment. I'll tell you just one picturesque anecdote, remember we all wrote essays at school that I want to be when I grow up. I worked at school, I can tell you firsthand. My generation, your generation has written, I want to be a doctor, a teacher, a hairdresser, a mechanic, a pilot and something like that. Do you know what today's generations say? All the boys want to be football players and all the girls want to be models and women football players. Now, this is, unfortunately, your training toward work, that is, your attitude toward work. And I'm afraid we often don't raise kids to be productive workers or productive employers at some point. As far as I'm concerned, there's a sign of equality for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72327	Replica of respected representatives Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72328	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, representatives of the ministry. Well, you gave your colleague Hajdukovic an example in practice, so I would like to make a contribution to this debate with one example in practice. In fact, this Labour Act needs to protect workers from being fired. I'd like to ask you not to protect a drone, or a criminal from being fired. Article 116(2) states that an employment contract may only be exceptionally cancelled within 15 days of the date of knowledge of the fact on which the exceptional termination is based. In the town of Vodice, the bookkeeper-handler has in many years alienated about 400,000 kunas of the city’s or the budget of the city’s kindergarten. She admitted it neatly, she served the prison fine neatly, but within 15 days, we failed to deliver an extraordinary notice, namely she no longer had the opportunity to work with money, but we didn't have another employee to calculate her personal incomes and everything she needed because she was also an accountant and she got a solution somewhere on the 20th day about an extraordinary dismissal she didn't complain about. After the execution of the prison, she sued the city, and now we have to pay her back to work and half a million kunas. I think it'd be okay for this law to protect an employer from criminal workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72329	Replica response, respected representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72330	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Members, I think you've been more polymized with the minister, but I'd like to add something anyway. Namely, the legislator, any law that matters, or even labour law, goes bona fide, in good faith. So not all real-life situations can be prescribed, nor am I a supporter of laws that predict any situation, nor can they. And the abuses unfortunately exist, abuses speak more about our state of consciousness and our relationship not only to society and others but also to the state, of which at some point we will find it difficult to ask for help, but when it is not difficult for us to just watch our obligations bypass. It's a sad truth. In addition, my colleague, Grbin, before me, has already stated that I think an eclectic example of the abuse of the union system, that you have a union in a company that has two members, which is being exchanged at the Commissioner's post every 6 months and thus avoids being fired from work. So I agree, and employers need one level of protection to make sure that they too are certain that people they invest in, besides people who need to do something for them, so they also work and meet their work obligations and end up being satisfied with both.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72331	Thank you very much. It's the Honorable Agent Ivan Racan's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72332	This was a very interesting replica, with a request for the protection of employers. I think there are too often wrong concepts and concepts of the Labour Act. The labour law is neither there to protect employers nor to protect workers, nor to protect the state. The labour law is there to regulate relations between them. The only person who can protect employers and workers is the judiciary, the court, the respect of this law, and here we are aware that in Croatia we have had many problems in recent history. The fundamental objection to this bill is that this is a further liberalisation of the labour market. Yes, that's true, it's a further liberalisation of the labour market, in an absolute or comprehensive sense. If the rights that workers have had or if cancellations are simplified are reduced, in absolute terms, that is to reduce workers' rights. However, the second question is how many rights in Croatia, not only labour rights but overall social rights are even possible or sustainable, given the situation in Croatian society, in the Croatian economy. We live in a world, a globalized world that's pretty rough, a world where little ones are forced to run for the big and catch, unfortunately, often catch crumbs. We live in a world where capital and economy have become global, and social policy remains national if anything remains and there is the essence of the problem, there is the essence of all the injustices that arise. Because the value of capital of, for example, 100 million euros in one Germany is relatively small compared to the value of the same capital in Croatia where that capital represents a huge amount. We often measure with Western states, with the right, in order and use the argument that if we have their laws, we must also have their receipts. Yeah, that's as nice as a thought, but it's up to us to get there. We have heard here today and some romantic statements about socialism as a future, and I must say that as far as my belief is concerned, there is a form of socialism that, of course, in today's form must evolve in a theoretical sense in order to be feasible and possible. This is all unimportant because we live in... when something needs to be done now, and the moment is for Croatia to sink, that Croatia is very sinking. And solutions aren't simple, and problems are getting bigger. The greatest fear is fear of layoffs. Logically, jobs are becoming less and less, but labour laws cannot prohibit firing. So we're witnesses, so if there's an attempt to liberalise this Labour Act, and we're witnessing that the current labour law has not only prevented the cancellations, so it's not stopped the theft, or the disappearance of entire companies, companies. That's not the solution. The labour law is only one instrument that regulates relations between workers, employers and the state. And everything else is unfortunately manipulation. We have a situation that, I apologize in advance to the opposition, I will talk about HDZ, not because I do not respect the rest of the opposition, but because SDP and HDZ are the most responsible for Croatia. We have a situation that's 2010. HDZ tried to change the Labour Act, we have a situation where HDZ openly believes that we were wrong at the time because we did not support it, we have a situation where SDP President Zoran Milanovic publicly says that he admits that he was wrong then, we have a situation in which HDZ is now repeating that error. There will always be a reason, there will always be a reason not to make arrangements, not to agree, not to support anything. In this case, as far as I understand from the presentation of the HDZ Club representative, the reason is the lack of a broader strategy of the part which would be one of the measures of this Labour Act and a broader strategy to make Croatia a better path. That's right. Mrs. Dalic was right about that. Croatia is chronically in the absence of long-term strategies and even implementation of short-term strategies, and in the chronic lack of long-term strategies. But we have to ask ourselves why that is. Why can't we as a society be able to reach some social consensus? A lot of talk here before about social dialogues, social dialogues, so it comes down to what social dialogue is, what social dialogue is. All that together is unfortunately... For those of us who understand these terms mostly, we deal well with them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But our responsibility is far greater than that. Croatia's problems at the moment are probably already bigger than just one political option that will behave as a government or coalition that will act as a government. Croatia's problems require a consensus broadly. There is no broad strategy or implementation without this broad consensus, and at this point it means SDP and HDZ. We know what are the things that must be done as you did, as without support it is not possible to implement public administration reform, without support, pardon without consensus is not possible to reform the territorial structure. A whole series of these big projects that have been holding this country back for years now. We are now talking about Croatia with 4 regions and the City of Zagreb. I'm sorry, but that's the solution from 12 years ago. It's been 12 years, we haven't spent it yet, and everyone agrees that we should. But we can't agree on that. We can't achieve a political consensus to carry it out. Of course, I cited it as an example. I appeal, I appeal to stop as long as we can, to stop partying in important topics. There's plenty of room for all of us to score points for our political options and everyone for themselves, but on important issues, we need to talk. We must stand together behind painful reforms. I don't have to remind you that 23 years ago we came out of socialism and accepted a social order that involves liberal democracy and a market economy. And then to fall for attacks on labour market liberalisation is politically irresponsible. Almost 15 years ago, a professor in Croatia who I appreciate wrote that Croatia is a country where it is difficult to implement something and slowly obstruct everything. I was young at the time and then it was a romantic remark on the state of Croatia. 15 years later, unfortunately, that's still true. We need to find a way to change that at least in key things. I received more layoffs in my life as a worker, as an employer I also quit a little more. Not one was pleasant, not the one I received, not the one I gave. I understand people's fears, it's hard to do our job at this time, but we just can't go on like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72333	Thank you very much. We have replicas. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72334	Thank you very much. Col. Racan, the amendments to the Labour Act 2010 were part of the economic recovery programme, and it was known exactly how many billions of kunas have tangled these three articles. So, there was nothing like it, but it was quite clear what it was going to do. What happened today was today's debate of the HDZ Club and when it was a break and now you can't just compare it to what was 2010. We have made it clear today that we believe that in the amendments to the Labour Act at this time, at this point, we are talking about 2014 and 2015 what we know and what others from outside are predicting will simply not affect the labour market in the Republic of Croatia at all. And that's why we said that we can't accept the amendments to one of the key laws in the Republic of Croatia without trying to reach some social dialogue and consensus and another thing that changes this Labour Act must be a whole part of a reform package that this government finally has to put on the table and it's not good to push some things that are simply not true. It's the same story as the Pre-Fashion Act. We supported him, but seven days after that, the government, by its 45th article, amended the Pre-Fashion Act, turned him upside down. We didn't support it, nor did we support all the other changes. It means that such a pre-profit law as it is today we do not support but we are the first draft law to support the amendment we have proposed with the intention and intention to say here's a colleague from the ruling coalition, we are prepared to support projects that offer some kind of economic recovery measure. And today, when my colleague Dalic and I spoke on behalf of the club, we spoke exactly that way, but I say in 2010, the law was part of an economic recovery programme and we knew exactly that it was some kind of 9 and 10 billion that we had to open negotiations with the unions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72335	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Honored Representative Ivan Racan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72336	Mr. Shuker, the consensus implies a compromise, the consensus implies agreeing to some things that you disagree with. I was talking about it, so we can go back in history for a long time, we can go back to the beginning of the government where you were the finance minister where there was good co-operation of the new HDZ government with the SDP in 2004 until the incident that made it that your Prime Minister when he came to the Parliament and insulted the entire SDP. There will always be a reason why there was no cooperation, there will always be a reason, and I say that we need to find a reason why we should cooperate, and I say that the reasons we have, that whoever is in power has prerogatives, has instruments, has something more responsibility to do but also one who is in opposition must look at the width of the situation in which Croatia is located. And you and I get along really well when we talk about it without cameras and we get along really badly when we talk here with the microphone. There are some things that have to change. We need to find a way to get this country that's in the difficult problems that we agree on, how to change things. That's all I said. And I repeat, there's always a reason not to do it, but if we keep doing it like that and that's how we've been going so far, then we know where we're going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72337	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72338	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Racan, you're talking about consensus and compromise. Consensus can also be social, so general social and compromises, first of all, I'd say they have to be social. So this is about tripartite talks and negotiations between employers, trade unions as representatives of workers and the state. When you were talking about the width, so that's the width you're calling for here's HDZ, the others and you're not calling for a joint adoption of this law, then I have to remember, and you're saying that your Prime Minister signed a petition against the new Labour Act 20101. So, considering that width and depth of such a process, it would be said that this was not the case. Just like he didn't, as Mr. Karamarko denied the signature of some indifference as a murder in connection with a Cyrillic in Vukovar and said that he signed it just like that, so we see certain and inconclusive on both sides. When we talk about trade unions and social compromise, then it seems to me that, if your government has just gone in this to say liberal sense so far that that winged and proletarian principle of all the countries unite, you should actually be read today by liberals, white worlds and domestics unite. This proletaries of all countries unite, no longer mentioned, because they could happen to unite without the influence of any political party and then we have something that we may not have seen at first in St. Mark and we'll see later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72339	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Honored Representative Ivan Racan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72340	Comrade Grubisic, you've just perfected the problem I'm talking about. You're part of the segment in which I addressed HDZ you turned into, or you applied it to the second part where I call for responsibility. It's this mean interpretation of everything where we'll always be able to find a reason why we won't do something. I didn't say that, I was talking about the responsibility of the SDP and HDZ that has the biggest for this country, and I didn't just call for a compromise, I called for everyone. We are all slowly increasingly aware of the weight of the situation in which Croatia is located. She's getting bigger. As for socialism, the proletaries of all countries, I will tell you this, I have some historical sympathy for the workers' movement, towards the struggle for workers' rights, but very clearly, Mr Grubisic and Yugoslavia, which fell apart and socialism as a project that failed are part of history. You won't hear anyone from the SDP talk about them as concepts of the future. That's not our theme. Now I would appeal to leave it, that's our history, that's history, unfortunately for both good and bad, that's the history of these spaces and the great part of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72341	Honorable representative of Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72342	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rachan, I've been here for seven months, I've never heard such a debate as you've had tonight. She's absolutely unpolitically separated. You've given a nice, nice lecture without any dialogueal troubles, but apparently you're an individual, your voice is not heard in the SDP. You don't have any power in the party because never anyone, look, you're a party in power and if what you're talking about, to make such a move, then you'd feel it. You've seen here at the vote, 100 amendments of which 99 are stupid, and there's one at least that would be normal. So you were in a position to adopt at least some amendment, but you see the situation here. Now we don't talk in front of the cameras, nobody's looking at us, so it's easier, so we can talk. What you're saying, I accept it, absolutely. And he's watching, isn't he? [[The incursion president: Looking at you, looking at you.]] It's a nice show, but let me show you, here as the ruling majority, show in one thing that it's in practice the way you say, if you have the option. Secondly, we're talking real problems here, so these real problems push us forward. Your lecture is beautiful, your attitude is beautiful, absolutely positive, but we must make the real times, which are bloody, as you say difficult, make difficult decisions. But there's not much interest in cooperation here, and there's no good hand. Well, maybe that speech of yours, if you have any influence, can be a cause or could be a way to go in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72343	Replica reply, Honored Representative Ivan Racan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72344	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Not even Rome came into existence in one day. I said what we had to change. I've been an agent for two years, and I admit that I understand everything that's going on here. The big part of the debate is that you all know a kind of performance for the sake of media attention, but I'm just appealing, let's start creating this feeling that we need this change in the political process itself, in the perception of us, not that we're looking right now... Look, I wasn't saying that, I'm aware that as on your part, as well as on this side, the blows are ugly, the blows are on, but to find one set of topics, one of which we can make a deal and let's do it regardless of who was in power. Let's make a deal, let's stop this flirting with the remains of socialism. That's my appeal, because if we move on like this, we don't write well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72345	Thank you too, dear colleague. It's my colleague Boro Grubisic's turn, 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72346	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. So much is said today and tonight, that a hard man can find some new arguments and may make a debate interesting even though this would be expected in view of the topic that is very important for Croatian workers, Croatian citizens and even for, and especially for our children and our grandchildren. It is that, as one says, a satisfied worker, a satisfied employer with that early Christian rhetoric, go among the people, saying that in 2010, here I will not name who said that the Labour Law should protect workers. So it's literally, so it's said like that. So now that you are looking at this legal proposal, when we look at the situation in which Croatia is located, it is difficult to figure out that this law will therefore help to reduce the number of unemployed or help hire new workers. In a situation where the employment ratio by number of pensioners is 1.18:1, in a situation where the number of persons in employment is within Croatia, and in the EU, the lowest, least, therefore the number of persons in employment. What should be achieved and what we expected and what we said were difficult work negotiations, that's true, but they say they don't, the negotiations have no other alternatives. But here, today we are discussing without a third social partner, I hope and deeply believe that between the first and second readings, however, good faith and good intention to listen to the third party, not to unilaterally the Croatian Parliament, through its parliamentary majority, will change the Act of Labour as it has so far changed the laws in the way or regulations, as Mr Shuker has said, the Law on Pre-Agreement, so that law has become radical and has become a law that allows and with what is good in this law, actually allows crime. When we look at the government's actions in relation to labour legislation, I will focus primarily on health care and on the health minister, given that I am a surgeon myself and that I receive information from my colleagues daily and I am asked to speak about it. Namely, when doctors declared the strike then it was said that they were responsible for an increased waiting list, the prime ministers were called unemployed, and we're looking for some consensus here and we're asking for respect. And when they tell doctors that they're unemployed or quitters, even better, exactly as they say, they're quitters, that peasants are unemployed, etc. that Slavonians are ordinary tambourines and a series of insults that prevent or prevent social not social but social dialogue, so in that case, when they are declared "shug" doctors, and then after that, when the strike is organised, they accuse them of being guilty of waiting lists, so a work obligation is introduced, then shift work. And now the state of health is not going to say 50% worse than it was, so doctors aren't on strike, and waiting lists and patient rights are less than they've ever been. And now you're thinking about reducing your patient's right to get less rights for those money paid by contributing to it than they had. Here's an example of bad and social and social dialogue, and now we're talking about union representativeness, and the other day when we discussed the Labour Protection Act last week, it's been said here that the union centralities sent their approval mark to the Labour Protection Act. Later I met one of the union leaders and he told me it wasn't true, the minister wasn't telling the truth, we didn't send anything to him. And here it's waved with paper. I don't know if it was sent or not. What kind of way to say it like they said up here this morning from the gallery and yelling you're lying. I didn't say that, I didn't mean to communicate that way, and I couldn't say that to anyone. The most successful government and the poorest people. The results shown by Croatia's deficit in the state budget, results showing debt in relation to the total social product that has been increased from 60% to 67% of the debt for these two years, hence 7%, are other arguments of the unemployment rate of nearly 400 thousand people are inconclusive evidence of this government's success. Because of this and for avoidance, I don't know if the union has given up or the ministry has taken a stand, I read an article saying that even when employers with the union agreed on some articles in this law and for some measure, that the state said it can't do that. So I'd also like to ask an explanation, if employers and trade unions have agreed on certain legal acts that the state has interfered as an intercessor, third party and said no, that's not how it can be done. I don't understand whose interests this country protects. I simply think of that black liberal capitalism and this flexibility, the flexible tariff, that is, the deregulation of liberalisation will lead to the further departure of young people from Croatia, young educated people and to the fullness of what is being said here will be the opposite of the total demographic poverty of Croatia. And what are we going to stay and become? So we won't need the Labour Act, we'll be the world's largest retirement home with four million pensioners. Young people will leave Croatia. And with this law and this before the law. It's not about encouraging the economy, it's not about creating a business climate with a new labour law, it's about attracting investment. He said Mr. Mile that the labour price at 7th place is competitive in the competition scale, so labour prices. So it's not a expensive workforce that I'm trained to do, which is educated, which is online, and we have it all. Unfortunately, all this leads to exactly what I said. About the fact that 70,000 workers today don't get paid without anyone being processed, no one's being processed, no one has an argument to answer. 70,000 people don't get paid, among them 15 grand from companies that are mostly state-owned, no one answers. Where are the trials criminal? Where are the proceedings punishable against responsible persons? They're gone. There's this unbelief in persuasion of unbelief that tells us that this Labour Act, too, may well be packed, offers perhaps some good solutions, but actually inspectorates work, working courts, and it's all on paper. And we know as well as how the whistles go today, and as 25 thousand workers go to the shopping houses that come an hour early, they leave an hour or two later, but they can't even mention that they're getting paid, not to mention. Such liberalisation will be an even worse situation, an even worse situation. It's just real peeling and exploiting workers. We here and from the minister hear that it's thought-out nice, that it has good faith, that it won't be so, that it'll be different. But according to practice, practice so far is hard to believe, it's really hard to believe. The agencies, so we have a transfer agency, so I'd call it, like, soccer players. Messi goes to Barcelona, you go there to Croatian HEP, then after two years you'll be transferred, and that's done without the agency, depending on party membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72347	Thank you very much. Time's up, Your Honor. Now we have a few replicas. The first replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72348	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, listening to a good 9 hours of this debate honestly, I cannot conclude whether these changes in the law will change something on the labour market. And will these changes of the law benefit some 385 thousand unemployed and what will be the benefit of those who do. Is it necessary for all of this to happen in Croatia because of something that the main participants in the process did not agree with, therefore, trade unions, employers and government? Because look how much it cost yesterday to stop trains, stop production, kids go early from school, etc. And on the other hand, I've been asked by your debate and your previous debate over the Pre-profit settlement Act. So, to a good extent with one amendment, we first supported the Law on Pre-bank settlement. What happened? After 6 or 7 days, this Law was amended in 45 articles. And from one law that looked like something, we got something completely different. However, it is very interesting that at times when the Pre-department Law is experiencing a major criticism from the government often, as well as from the ruling coalition, messages are heard, so everyone has supported the law. Yes, we supported one law and the other law applies. That's why it's not clear to me when I'm talking about this Labour Act, so really after these discussions and after the union protests, it's not clear to anyone that this whole debate just needs to be postponed, that it's simply a matter of waiting some other time because these amendments to the law will not change anything in the budget, and it will also not change to facilitate the business of economic operators. So I really don't understand why there's something going on that doesn't practically bring any results.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72349	Thank you very much. Now we'll hear the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72350	Comrade Shuker, that's what I said. That these 385 thousand unemployed have nothing to say about this law. How will this result in the employment of the 385 thousand when this Law is adopted by the ruling coalition? And none. If there is no investment, no investment, no opening of new plants, no opening of new jobs, then the law cannot apply to the newly employed or unemployed. As for the pre-fashion settlement and the law that we have supported in good faith and the HDSSB club supported it, I think that we feel a little cheated because they have really been misusing, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has misused our trust because regulations have so much changed this law that it no longer resembles the law that we have adopted. And then, based on those regulations, things happen that happen. And indeed, here I think he's going to have a job, and Mr. Cvitan, here we are not going to talk about Bajic anymore, but that soon, there will be already criminal charges on pre-nuptial settlements, I'm not going to say which, because of the judiciary, etc., I would not like to name criminal charges that have already been filed and in connection with pre-fashion settlements. Unfortunately, this is our reality, and somehow it's like we Croats can't get rid of it, we're just infected, poisoned by crime, corruption, it's just going on, going on and on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72351	Dear Representative Ivan Šimunović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72352	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Grubisic and you mentioned difficult negotiations, but also protesters and protests today that gathered here in front of the Assembly. Protests are almost always useful because citizens and ruling warn that citizens are those who control the government and the authorities remind citizens that bad moves will be able to punish them in the next elections. There will be more protests during this government not only because they are making some unpopular moves but also because their attitude towards voters is such as to get the impression that people do not know what is good for them. You can't look at people with heights and not expect resistance. There's been a lot of talk about black employment. So if someone has to choose between feeding the child and buying him books or calming Linic there is a clear choice. Taxes must be fair, meaningful and tolerable. Only then can we talk about serious sanctions for those who don't pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72353	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72354	Thank you. A fellow Simunovic, here, four and a half days ago, was assigned an assignment on the tide, as it is called, no, the SDP convention by the president goes amongst the people. So the Messianic, early Christian cry go among the people, go among the people. Today was an ideal opportunity for a minister or one of his men to face the people. If in so much faith that this Law is good, if in so much faith that this Law will bring good to this people, members and unions and working people who are gathered today, I am so confident that I am so confident about it, without any problems I would go and say, wait for me to speak too. No, an ideal opportunity, 20 meters from the House's door was held together. As for Croatia and its elections, it was always against the vote in Croatia. And the HDZ government fell because it was voted against, unfortunately, a bitter experience because it was talking about this one falling just because it was voted against.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72355	Thank you very much for your grade. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72356	Thank you. Well, here's a colleague, I'm part of your position here somewhere, and I might be a little bit on some other trail, especially with regard to unions and their positions. But what we've actually already seen in a series of discussions is that this law made sense if it was a clear goal and it was part of some policy. However, it does not show that it is part of a policy that has clearly defined objectives because it is shown as one measure, so we will see next month or two which will be another measure, in a month or two, which will be the third measure, and the objectives will remain rather cloudy. Let us consider, for example, what our policy is currently based on income or capital. So the income you earn from, for example, 10 000 kuna is taxed at a rate of 40%. How much you tax those 10,000 kunas when you're lying down and a month at the bank you wait for them to raise interest on them, how much they tax when you lie down and wait for you to raise the dividend to 10,000. How taxing is the profit of 10 000 kuna that you earn as the owner of a company. Or not to say in a bizarre case, when you win a game of happiness, 100 million kuna and a one-time amount of 100 million kuna, you pay 25% of taxes and they tell you here's your 75 million kuna, and at 10,000 kuna, you pay 40% of the income tax cumulatively, or what many employers complain about one salary of 1000 euros, for example, that about 108% of the total cumulative charge still comes on that salary in all possible forms. These elements of competitiveness that put pressure on the price of the product...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72357	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72358	When you were talking about winning, I think it was about me that 100 million kunas on the lottery, and it wasn't about me, I'd say it was about me, then I'd say it's because these Turkish series are in fashion, Ishalah, if God gives it to me. But we're not gonna talk like that. We heard from the second minister, the Minister of Small Enterprise Mr. Maras, that this law even said identical to the German model. I received information because I went among the people, instead of those from the SDP I listened to Milanovic and went among the people and they told me that the translator of German law, I will not speak the name of the professor, said that when compared to this proposal, it is completely different from that German model, that it is completely different when compared to the text of the German law and this Croatian. So it doesn't matter. But what I wanted to say, and that's most importantly, here's what I'm going to end up doing in a replica, so the German model of the Labour and German wages Act, so let's compare our Labour and Our Salary Act or the stock exchange fee, so at the Bureau of Employment and Our Compensation. Well, it's almost where people want to be on the market in Germany, and we know what the situation is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72359	Your colleague was talking about taxation. Dear Representative Damir Tomic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72360	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Grubisic, mentioned several things today. I'm stuck with what this law called take or leave. The law that has two readings take it or leave it, the law that's been discussed for a year take it or leave it. It reminds me of blue envelopes in the Osijek-Baranja County Assembly when people were employed, I guess that's the model the party proposes. But I have two questions, given that a colleague has been dealing with the SDP for a very long and comprehensive time today. Here's my question, and he asked it to one of his colleagues, whose party assignment he's talking about here today. And the second question to me is extremely important and interesting because I really don't know the rules and legislation of Germany, which is also somewhat less than the SDP called out, can it tell me whether his parliamentary party would be parliamentary in view... of the court's decisions and in Germany. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72361	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72362	So, Waltaire said, so the French Parliamentarian, the writer, I can quote but without personal illusion, so what you're saying is, it disgusts me, but your right to speak will never be denied. So this is about the court, these are your SDP standards, and there was no better truckers on this side who put an innocent man in jail when you were talking about prison. We're not going to talk any further so you don't mention names. I'm not from Osijek, but I'd like to ask you something else if you're asking me. If you had two seats or one job in the county and you had 36 candidates, how would you do it and assign that place?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72363	I'm supposed to answer something, but I'll hold on. Thank you very much. Dear representative Hrvoje Nekic, debate 10 minutes or less. Or less. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72364	Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. So it's important to point out once again, and to point out, this is the first reading of the law, there is time for dialogue, there is time for talks, there is time for agreements, and most importantly, and what needs to be emphasized is also the will to dialogue and talk with the social partners. However hard and as hard as some try to show this government as socially insensitive, that is not the case, and that is the very fact that almost daily the resolution minister calls for a table, to sit down, to talk, and to try to find an agreement with the social partners. As I have already pointed out, this is the first reading, I am sure that until the second reading, or until the final adoption of this Law, it will reach agreement with the social partners, and that the Labour Act is ultimately adopted in the interests of all, above all, in the interests of workers and all those who live from their work and effort, in the interest of workers as a cornerstone of the development of society and bearers of creating a new value of economic growth. For many years, workers have been fighting for their rights and want to contribute to social stability, progress and better life, and for this very reason, the institutions have to submit everything to work, social development and the welfare of society as a whole, to be valued and valued in an adequate way, in a way that will give workers dignity, in a way that workers are not properly paid for their work, in a way that every worker is paid the wages he has earned, in order to do everything to avoid those embarrassing situations that workers do, and for their work they do not receive a fair wage, in order to avoid situations where workers do not know that they do not pay the contributions, so that when they come to the well-earned and deserved pensions they are faced with the knowledge that their employer did not pay their contributions and the other donations prescribed by law. So not long ago, we had a situation that nearly 200 thousand workers, so daily they went to work, did their duties fairly, contributed to society through their work, and at the same time they were not paid contributions and thus violated their rights. That can't happen now. It can no longer happen that in this way the worker, and I would say is belittled, underestimating and that the right person is less valuable and the person with whom to manipulate in any way. All that the worker has earned, all that time the worker spent in his workplace, all that he has given in his work for this society must be fair and esteemed and paid first and foremost. For many years, we have also witnessed the arrogant and irresponsible behaviour of some, stressing some employers who are willing to do anything to put their interests and their material status ahead of the interests of workers and their rights and precisely those who use workers should be condemned. They need to be made clear that they cannot go further, and that such behaviour will be sanctioned by the institutions of the state. The aim of this government is also to be an interest and protection of workers, to protect and preserve jobs, to create preconditions for job creation, to create preconditions for starting investments, to create preconditions for starting an economy. The introduction of order into society and institutions in order for our society and our economy to be competitive, and to enable the arrival of investments, the arrival of capital, to create new jobs, to reduce unemployment to the least possible level, so that everyone working for their work is adequately paid, and that Croatia becomes one of the most important factors in economic development both the regions and the European Union, whose member we are now. Once again, I would like to emphasise this is a debate in the first reading, this is a public debate, and there must be plenty of time for talks and negotiations, for social dialogue. I need you to sit at the table and talk to the cold head first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72365	Thank you very much, dear colleague. It is next to the respected representative, Nada Murganic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72366	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, at this very late hour, I will try to make my debate very brief, but I cannot resist joining the debate anyway and not potential for any problems that might eventually be in the second reading or in the final adoption of the law could either be corrected or changed. Of course, I will join all of us who feel that social dialogue is necessary for such an important law. And here we've all shown some intentions and even maybe promises that there's time for that. Well, here I am going to believe that maybe it will come to that anyway. When it came to the need to adopt a new Labour Law, many problems were discussed, there was talk of harmonising with national legislation. Of course that's what we should do. There was also talk of harmonising with the European Union. And we certainly should because we are proud of the fact that we are 28 EU countries. There was also talk of changing social, economic and other circumstances that led to the need for a new law that is appropriate at the moment. We talked about increasing unemployment, the need for flexibility of the labour market, which will be one of the conditions for new jobs to be opened. It has also been said that the Labour Act is too protective of workers and the need for new workers who may have to express myself in such a union dictionary a lower index of legal protection of workers. I can really agree with all that and respect all these reasons, but I'd like to share with you some thoughts or maybe some ideas or recommendations. Whether this Labour Act is too protective or not I don't know, but the fact is that they're employers who did well, they did well with this Labour Act. And those who didn't know it, they fired themselves, and they didn't pay their wages either. I am saying this in the context that no law can be a guarantee that our behaviours will change, but I would like to agree that the government is responsible for such a law that will create good conditions for the work of employers, but I also think that we should also work to protect our citizens or specifically talk about workers. If some of the moments were to say that it wasn't quite so, I think that the workers, regardless of what we said about having to change consciousness or not, should be protected, I think the unions are quite significant because the workers rely on them a lot. Employers, privates, I may say too harshly but they don't like union organisation, but the worker should have union protection, and if we talk about even in the public and state sectors, in some way, the appearance of outsorcing reduces the influence of the union, then we can also be aware of this, which is why the trade unions are concerned, but which is why the workers are concerned. This big-door law potentials the agency and agency employment, the agencies are even given greater rights, the agencies will play a role in intervening in employment, which in some ways also raises the question of what will happen to our Employment and Branch Office, whether they will be just statistical offices and now we see how many jobs they already have on a continuous basis by increasing the number of unemployed who register daily in their office. In the triangle between the agency, employers and workers, it is certain that the burden of business will still fall to the highest burden of workers because, normally, the agencies will not conclude any collective agreements with employers. This will not be in the interest of either and the agency worker will mainly be a very low-paid worker who will very often change both employers, will also change jobs in case he is not placed anywhere there will be no cash compensation, whether he is on a specific or indefinite basis. In fact, the agency worker won't even know what work they're working on, what conditions, what conditions they need to be prepared for, and I think that should somehow introduce protection for agency workers. The more I think that most agency workers will be women, since we know that women who are very happy about it are their nature, because they take care of their families, are willing to take over both the weakest and the least paid jobs. And I think that's where the dangers are that they're going to be the agency workers. An esteemed representative, a colleague of Gordana Sobol, presented a very interesting study today in a debate that is good for me this morning, and I welcome her where she shows interest in the agency work of highly educated women. I think it's a good option but the vast majority of our women are single, are women who have a low qualification structure that are unemployed, are at home who are home because they take care of their children, their older family members and they will have to accept any jobs for the reason that this is rarely which of them has the ability to make their spouses so much money that they can do and choose what they're going to do. In fact, as there is this study, there is also a study on the feminization of poverty, and in some ways I think that maybe even in this law it should strengthen the protection of women, women who should be protected from night work, from the redistribution of the working time we talked about so much, which will seriously disrupt the organisation of not only leisure time, no one thinks about it anymore but family life and life of raising and protecting a child. Here would be my recommendation that perhaps some moments in this second reading or explain how the minister said there would be no doubt as to how and how a woman who is on maternity leave will be able to return to her post or not be able to return. Is a woman who has a child under three years of age protected from night labor? Whether this redistribution of working time should be for a woman who has underage children when we know that it is stipulated in the law that every worker can and must give consent but under the conditions where we have work for a certain time, where we have agency jobs very rarely who will dare refuse any offer that is related to his job.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72367	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas, the esteemed representative of Damir Mateljan replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72368	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, here was not my sincere goal, however, here at this late hour I would not have reported myself unless I was literally moved by today's debate not only by your colleagues but by your entire club, all of your colleagues and colleagues who discussed it today, I am actually moved by your concern for the level of labour rights in the Republic of Croatia. Just like I was touched by the unions you mentioned, or their leaders who today invited citizens to go out to fight the thieving and the mob, it's literally their statement. Great, wonderful and fine, I'm just wondering where you've been so far, where you've been while Croatia has been systematically robbed, while the economy of this country has been destroyed, the economy from the city that you've come from has been destroyed. What have you been doing all this time? They've done nothing, not you or those who invite people out on the street. One of you actively participated in this, and these others turned their heads and sat in public enterprises, i.e. on boards of public companies, and took money for it. Now just don't tell me... it's an argument like we're talking arguments from history because this isn't history, this happened almost yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72369	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72370	Dear colleague, I am also moved by this replica of yours. I must honestly admit that I don't know what you're replicating me about right now, and I could also tell you that I've gone along with this debate of ours that's starting in some kind of cooperative tone that we're going to be together, making a better labour law together, with some kind of consensus, some kind of social dialogue and a social agreement. But I can also answer you in this tone, and I can understand that you're going this way. I haven't talked this time in this discussion about us, about you, about them, I've talked about certain things that I really think I can fix. I don't know if you'll be able to help me, today I won't be able to answer what kind of extractions it is, and who's stealing what it is, these are too serious accusations for me to be able to speak like this. You'd have to tell me exactly who, where, when and what.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72371	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72372	Here, colleague Murganić commentary of mine on this replica before, I must say because it was practically called our entire side, the attack is the best defense. However, you spoke very well of the law itself and essentially did not call anyone your opinion and did not mention the payment of workers in it. The fact is that we have all witnessed that there are companies and employers who are not working for 6 months, 7 months, 12 months, we have paid them salaries, which have continued to come to work, which protection mechanisms and guarantees such employees that they will receive their paid salary in due time with such employers offer this law? What is important is what you mentioned, and what is underprocessed in law, these are agencies in terms of the protection of employees who get jobs through such agencies. We are witnessing today that many companies, many employers, take their employees over agencies because they are thus exempt from any sanctions or any payments in the event that such workers do not need, want, do not need to worry about firing, nor about fulfilling any labour rights, simply tell the agency that he no longer needs it, the worker remains practically unprotected, through that agency still waiting for her to find him some job. I think in this law, you've touched it very well, you should work on the second reading and that part of the agency itself. We have witnessed that even now, and in the next, we can expect even more, that more employers will resort to this way of using labour in their companies. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72373	Thank you, too, dear colleague. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72374	My colleague, I have mentioned really bad examples of practices that have been enough, our wish is to all, I believe that when we make new laws and regulations, our desire is to avoid it anyway. However, we spoke, I repeat again, of the awareness and awareness of workers, but also of the responsibility of the employer. I think all this together regardless of good will, good law, will not be if we don't have good inspection services and good inspection supervision that will be the same for everyone in the sense that the law should be applied and respected for all. But I was talking primarily about what could be corrected in the law so it would be easier then to implement it, or to reduce the avoidance of legal obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72375	Dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72376	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrades, I can agree with you that any constructive contribution to the debate is more than welcome. You in the last part, in fact, have had your debates a whole series of questions that I certainly welcome that you have mentioned here and I believe that it will benefit us as well as interested representatives, but also the promoter, so which question still needs to be clarified or that needs to be further processed. That's the kind of debate I absolutely support. And I'm going to say something below, actually not going to your address personally, more to the debates we heard today by your colleagues and colleagues from the party. One light motive keeps going on and on. Don't you think it's a little bit, if not hypocritical, but then absurdly talk about the union protection of workers while we're witnessing that the private sector that should be worn by both the public and the state sectors, there is usually no union protection. Why? We could have a whole session about that, about the very analysis of why they don't have it. So, the private sector, the workers working in the private sector, I think, are the ones who are the most unprotected, they need to be helped to strengthen, to join the union, because we need to be honest and say that public and public officials do it much better, much better to protect their rights than those in the private sector. And why is that? We talked about the ratio of capital and workers, therefore, the work as such, unfortunately that capital always wins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72377	Replicate response, respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72378	My colleague, I don't know why you think I'm hypocritical if I said that workers have the right to organize and I didn't understand that, and I didn't understand union protection. I'm talking, workers who need to be protected from abuse, I'm not talking about the protection of the unemployed. And it would be really good if the union association spreads to us in the private sector as well. So it's out in the world, and I think it's something we shouldn't be afraid of, and I think it's just our strength.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72379	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72380	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Members, you mentioned in your presentation both me and this part of me that I was talking about projects that would allow women who want to do this, who can do this flexible working time, regardless of what I am aware of, especially among women's associations, and also women's fronts within the union scene in Croatia are explicitly opposed, almost to all forms of flexibility of the labour market. However, we must be realistic and aware of the situation in which we are and the projects that I have talked about specifically refer to the layer of highly educated women, I have spoken slightly more than 55 thousand women between the age of 30 and 45 who are both mothers and who are keen to work in some of the flexible modes of work and in this they have the support of both companies, and companies or employers. Next week, there's about to be a promotion of such a big project. When we talk about agency work and hiring through agencies, I am aware that most of it will certainly be carried away by female labour force. What's important is, first of all, I think the same thing is that this three-year period is absolutely too long and it can't stay that way for me and it's going to have to be reduced in some way because if there's a need for a three-year replacement somewhere, then it can be employed both on a specific or indefinite basis or on how the employer decides. But control and what's important in this large mass of unemployed, and that part of women who now both men and women are working on black and in that gray zone is an opportunity to do some legal work through agency work that will be under strict control.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72381	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72382	My colleague Sobol, I understand, and I have positively accepted this information and I am glad that there is an interest in this kind of agency work, but I repeat, if that is a choice. I said more, my part of the debate referred to women who are not highly educated, whose only choice is mostly low-qualification structures and so far for agency workers that we have so far are mostly cleaners, maids who are mostly very, very low-paid. Their walking from employer to employer can only result in them being forced to accept lower and less paid employment each time. When we talk about agency work somehow, I can't help but think that there's going to be a possibility of working on black, especially in the part where it's going to be even working at home. Maybe that moment will match for a worker or a worker right now, but I don't think there's any guarantee. It is spoken in this law as positive as there will be no possibility of any abuse, but we still have the same inspectorate, the same control mechanisms and no matter how good the bio law should improve it even in this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72383	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Dear Representative Ivan Šimunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72384	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's a big storm going on around this bill. It is an extremely important document that regulates the rights and obligations of those who feed this country. I'm not sure if we're all fully aware of the facts of the workers and employers of this country's food, they're the only ones who can get her out of the crisis. Our most important job is to make it easier for them through the legal frameworks. I fully support the people who protested today. I'm a little glad to see the Croats are consummating their democratic right. It saddens me to expect them to be forced to do so many more times during this government. We must all be aware of the fact that we are representatives of those people who protested today, as well as employers. The employer's word has negative connotations in Croatia. We forget that among employers there are many more of those small people who have their own crafts and family businesses and face daily challenges of their position than they have big ones. These latter ones are much easier to find holes in the law and are usually seen through their fingers when caught in a violation. I think it's a real problem that we need to solve by applying the law because we can have a law that unfetteredly protects all the rights of workers you can remember, but it doesn't mean anything if you don't apply them all equally. A few things we all need to understand and consider. 1. There are certain civilization achievements related to the rights of workers from which we must not deviate. We also need to take care of the situation of employers because it is they who create jobs and we rely on them to bring the state out of the crisis. Second. Jobs that don't have money can't be saved. Keeping jobs is a demagogue sold by those who don't know what they're doing. Cancellation is not something that can be eradicated but the worker must at any time be sure that he will find another job if this is lost or decided to leave at the moment. Third. No one's going to open a job just because it's easier to fire. A goal for all of us to seek that when a Croatian worker loses his job, he knows that he will find a new one. This will not happen simply by liberalising the labour market. We need to facilitate and simplify business for entrepreneurs and shorten and simplify the process that investors from abroad are going through to enter Croatia with the necessary capital. Only after we've done everything we can to discuss the liberalisation of the labour market. As long as it's cheaper in Croatia to hire someone on black or report them to a minimumer, the rest of his salary is paid by hand than to do business by law, as long as investors clash with the walls of administrative gaps, as long as the opening of their own business is a risk equal to some of the extreme jobs until the liberalisation of the labour market results only in more unemployed people. It is unfortunate that in the term of each government they break a spear right around the Labour Act. This is an important part of the legislation to play with it as much as anyone likes it, especially if it is unrelated to the economic development strategy as a whole. It is a very sensitive matter, and I hope that the social partners will still find a common language, find themselves halfway through and present to us a final bill that will satisfy all sides and that the government will, in the meantime, work to achieve other preconditions for the start-up of the economy that I mentioned in order to liberalise the labour markets that are determined to make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72385	Thank you too, dear colleague. It is up to the honourable representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72386	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister and colleagues and colleagues, with respect for time, time off, and a lot of what's said, I certainly won't speak for 10 minutes, but I'll do it much shorter. When we look at what happened today, what was said here in the assembly, in front of the assembly, and in general, we see mostly that two issues or two have prevailed. One thing is that there is no social dialogue, there is no consensus on it, and the other is that this Law significantly deprives or reduces workers' rights. And it all comes down to those two things. About the lack of dialogue, I was saying, but just for the consistency of what I mean, two sentences. I guess it's clear after all these talks here and especially after what the minister said everything he did and was trying to come up with a dialogue that the problem when it comes to dialogue is not at the government's office. The only thing I've managed to figure out about this whole dialogue problem is that unions are asking for the whole process to be delayed by six months. But I don't see any argument why. What's going to be in six months different than today is why you can't sit today and it'll be in six months and vice versa. I don't have the arguments unless it's just to find a quasi argument so we don't participate in the debates, then in six months we'll probably say let's do it again after six months, etc. Therefore, if they have serious arguments, they should not wait six months to be presented immediately and now. But of course when there's a lot of noise and noise, then there's no real things in that noise and noise, there's no argument, and it's always consistent with what's less power of arguments, it's a stronger argument of power and noise and noise. If what is said today and these days around this Law were true, then it would really be doubtful whether it should be passed. He says that this law will allow workers to work without pay, minority that they are in a slave relationship, that this Law lowers labour prices, etc., etc. If that were true, if half of it were true, and about any of it, all that's been put on this Law today was true, and we wouldn't support it. But the truth is, fortunately, different and unfortunately, those who say what they're saying are not justified. But unfortunately, that's what they do. People when they hear it, a little bit who comes to mind, so I'm going to really take the law into their hands so let's see what's written in it rather than believe what's said and say what's said, untrues that aren't meant to pass a quality law, but here's to do political harm to the one who proposes it. And I understand when it's an opposition I don't understand when it's done by those who aren't opposition and who, above all, had an interesting goal, it was that workers have as much work as possible, that the more work they do, that the more employees they are and this law on that trail is. And another absurdity, this law is, nothing is more rigorous than in the countries of our environment, in members of the European Union such as Austria, Germany, which we know very well because our people work very hard. If it's not rigid out there, why would it be with us? Finally, if that is rigid, we have an absurd situation that many of our people are looking forward to this outcome of this 3+2+2 year and going to work in Austria, Germany and other European Union countries. So I'm wondering if they have rigid legislation, so why do these people want to go there? So if we want to protect our people, stop those who say that it is, that these are rigid legislation should prohibit these people from going there to exploit them, to go into slave relations. And if, of course, that's not true, of course, that legislation isn't as rigid as it is not. If it's not ours, then why the problem? Of course it's not the law, it's the problem somewhere else. One of the biggest things that caused the debate is the redistribution of working time. Now there's people going to have to do more than 40 of 48, so 56 hours without being able to do it or having to do it. In two of the largest economic branches in which many people work in construction and tourism, and so far, this has been the case, up to 60 hours, with a collective contract and with the union's consent. So the trade unions agreed that people in construction and tourism could work 60 hours a week, that it was re-distributed and that the next week they were doing less, and now suddenly it turns out that it's a problem when it should be introduced, for example. and in some other parts of the processing industry either in general or elsewhere. It's a thin argument, but the noise's big. We are thus equating, and why someone in the processing industry could not do as it is today and not just today and before in construction and tourism. Of course it's not our goal, we're not so much, we're not kamikazes that we're making laws to harm ourselves. This is obvious that we are not bringing political points but slaps, but we are aware that we are doing a good job in the long term, good for all of Croatia, for all of us and for workers, that we want to do with this part of the labour law segment that Croatia is equating with the European Union that we have entered into and on this basis be competitive with other countries, that it is not a stumbling block for why they do not come to us investment, and somewhere else they are going. So we do reform work that is difficult, we do it in the interest of not the SDP, not in the interests of the coalition, but in the interest of the whole of Croatia, in the interest of all those who work and those who want to work tomorrow and who need to work tomorrow and everyone who is well-intentioned will see it as well as support, the one who is not his problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72387	Thank you very much. Dear representative Nada Murganic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72388	My colleague, I'm just going to rephrase that sentence when you said if they have other countries so rigidly, why they go there to work. Because he's making money. We know what our salaries are, we have workers on the minimal, even those who aren't but with constant pay cuts, they're getting closer and certainly people are going for a better and bigger profit. Whether or not the redistribution of working hours will increase, extended working hours I apologize if I didn't understand you correctly, realize that the problem has so far been done. Yes, it was, I repeat, some employers did so, leaving their workers to work longer than they had ever planned. There is a concern that this redistribution will actually legalize longer working hours which will then be cover for work that will not be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72389	Replica response, respected representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72390	I just said that this law actually equalises employees in other branches of the economy with those in construction and tourism. He's there so far with the union's consent which is now rising against the fact that in other branches he can't and here he can't, I don't know why. Why, for example. in a textile factory you can't, and at a baustel somewhere or in a hotel you can. That argument from the union and from anyone else we haven't heard from. So, if, by now, the union's consent could be done up to 60 hours a week but it would be redistributed so that some other week would work less, why couldn't it be elsewhere. Of course the law requires that it be redistributed and that no one does it all the time for 60 hours, it's stupid, it's redistributed and without paying for it. It'll all come down to normal working hours of 40 hours, if it's beyond that it'll be paid as overtime. Therefore, it is the urgency to introduce order and pay for it all. And if anyone insists on fair work and pay it, it's this government that's even not paying the wages in the Penal Code that introduced it as a felony.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72391	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Daniel Mondekar, his 10 minutes. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to discuss this matter. Dear Representative Zdravko Ronko, also 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72392	Dear President, Minister and Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Of course I, like us Social Democrats when it comes to the ratio of capital and work or workers, are always on the side of workers, no matter what situation they are in. Of course, this relationship must always be balanced and that we have one difficult situation and the position of this moment has the task of creating conditions for the competitiveness of our economy, for attracting investment and for creating conditions for employment. And of course, under extremely difficult conditions of excessive deficit, an army of 385 000 unemployed, the relationship of pensioners and employees 1:1 in a situation where we have 200 billion debt, and we have over 200 and the change of multimillionaires that they have, they've seized as much assets as we have total debt. But we don't have a choice. We need to get out of this situation. It's our imperative. I understand unions, I know what their job is, I understand because I know they're safe, they're protected, they're not scared and they're fed up. I understand the opposition she's tasked with. If she were on the same side, maybe the opposition wouldn't be called, but they're safe and protected, too, and I have to tell the city. Why am I talking about Sita? Because he's hungry and he doesn't believe, and that's the problem. In fact, if we only remember those who are terrified in that real sector, if we put ourselves in the role of the hungry army, I'll say hungry bread, I'll say hungry jobs, I'll say hungry lives, and if we all find ourselves in that situation and the positions and the opposition and the unions, believe me, we'd both very quickly vote this law and first and second reading precisely because we'd say it's one of the levers that we all get better tomorrow, so to raise the economy, to create conditions for employment, and we'll create if we attract natural investment. Someone said in these discussions today that this is the alignment of ZOR and or fashion. It's not fashion. It's our responsibility. We must have wanted to not want to adapt. If we don't adapt, God knows we're going to fail, there's no other way. And that's exactly why we have to do it. That's one, one repeats one of the levers. But a series of measures that this government has taken are, of course, just going into action to get us out of this fungi where we're somehow brought in. One sentence about Germany. Often today, Germany was often mentioned too often. I would say that, compared to Germany, we stand perfectly simply for the reason that Germany has accidentally passed the conversion and privatisation in a Croatian way, that it has been robbed by the ruling party, that it has been robbed by the prime minister or prime minister in Germany, believe that Germany would be in the mud and Germany would be on its knees. We're still kind of on our feet. And I would therefore end my debate not to repeat myself with just one appeal to the union, according to the opposition, to all of us to step on the brake a little bit, to establish this dialogue that we can make between these two readings, so if we need to extend this second reading a little bit. But to create a dialogue, to have one consensus, where we're really all going to bring together in the best way possible, of course, and to hone everything that's proposed. And I think both the Government and the Proposer are open to do this and scratch and pass that law and move on. There's so much I'd like to do, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72393	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the esteemed MPs, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72394	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Ronko, I'd just like to replicate a little bit. You mentioned 200 multimillionaires in Croatia. I don't know why he keeps pointing his finger at rich people if they've gotten their property straight. And I don't think anyone should finger someone who worked fair and square, so there is. The problem with me is there's no middle class anymore. That middle layer is gone. Even we with relatively good salaries, parliamentarians can't measure with the middle layer that existed before. And then the other thing is this thing that I'd like to replicate is really more it gets on everyone's nerves. That's the privatisation you're talking about and what was thieving. I won't say it wasn't safe in that privatization of theft. However, the privatisation seems to have all their fingers. Because you see fellow Ronko, you're saying what would have happened in Germany if the party in power had done it, you alluded naturally to the party then in power. But you can't say that you've been twice, and now you're already, that is, second time you're in a position to punish that privatisation. And you know why you can't have a colleague, Ronko? And it's clear to all of Croatia and all of Europe, because out of the opposition, unfortunately they're also people who are sorry about that privatisation and you just know it's like you're holding one pin and each other don't touch it. It would be best if everyone would be punished for who did it, indeed, for each of them to be taken away from him, so that he would be in position or in opposition. And that would be fair if you said so. And every time you talk about it Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. [[Thank you very much. My colleague's time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72395	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Zdravko Ronko. I didn't know if it was a yes or a no.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72396	I kept raising my hand, and you were looking at a colleague, not me. Dear colleagues, we will agree that it was necessary to punish someone and not someone but all those who did. [[President: Of course, yes, yes.]] You're saying why we're not that, and we've had an opportunity twice. Because we're making this conversion and privatization so I don't take some worse terms and it's just a problem to solve it. You can't resolve it because you put it in law and I won't tell you what you put into law or what we put in law. So that's impossible. As for these multimillionaires as you said and why we didn't punish them individually or I don't know how you put it. I repeat once again, I didn't share these multimillionaires with either HDZ or the SDP or the HSS, and I don't know who. I was talking about those who had acquired, who had their origins drawn from those 180 wealthy families that were assumed you know when, you know how, and from that time on to the formation of 180 families the truth God had reached 280. That's the latest data. I really don't have anything else to say. Yeah, we have so many multimillionaires. 180 of them if we started to form them and if they started in '92. And third in creating your wealth or your empire, try to figure out if they could really get so rich for this time. Not if they couldn't do anything else on a bad economy like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72397	We're taking care of everyone tonight. The Honorable Proposer, Minister of Labour and the Pension System final word on behalf of the Proposer. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72398	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. Thanks for the discussion, it was long, exhausting. Based on this discussion and conversations with the social partners, I hope that we will come very quickly with another version, so with another reading of the law and what is my wish and I hope that we will be able to bring our attitudes closer to the maximum and that this law should be what it should be and that is a good social agreement on labour market relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-26-0.u72399	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. So we've exhausted the debate on all counts, on all lists. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill when the conditions are met. Proposal for a labour law. In line with the proposal of the SDSS Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, I am giving the statement: "The Croatian Parliament, after the first reading on the draft labour law, calls on the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the trade unions to reach agreement on issues of the proposed law, working time issues, the model of temporary-temporary work, the employment by the Agency, and the status and character of the working councils identified in the parliamentary debate and which led to a stalemate in negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the social partners". I'd like to make a statement on the proposed conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I note that the proposed conclusion was accepted by the majority of votes of 83 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 19 abstentions. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a labour law, first and all objections, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law". I'd like to make a statement on the proposed conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that by a majority vote 79 votes in favour, 29 votes against and 1 abstention, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
