ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77628	Good afternoon, dear fellow MPs and distinguished fellow MPs, I warmly welcome you. I'm opening 13. Plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, respected Zoran Milanovic, Vice-President and Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Minister, therefore members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you received the minutes of the 12th session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Please, is there any objections to the minutes of the 12th session of the Croatian Parliament? No objections. I hereby declare that we have adopted, established the minutes of the 12th session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. We would now move on to establishing the agenda of the 13th session of the Croatian Parliament. With the invitation to the session, you received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I put six new points in the final draft agenda. These are: 1. Proposed to show confidence in Boris Lalovec for his duties as Minister of Finance; 2. Proposal for a Law on Support for Jobs Conservation, First Reading, P.Z.E. No.666; 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Cooperatives Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No 665; 4. Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, First Reading, P.Z. No.667; 5. Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Attorneys, First Reading, P.Z. No.668; 6. Report on the work of the Committee for Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, Cemeteries of Victims of World War II, Cemeteries of the post-war period for 2013. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament first decides on a proposal to pass certain laws by emergency procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. These are the laws under points 3 and 9 of the final draft agenda. Laws under item 4.5,17,18,19,21 and 22 are also proposed for the adoption of an emergency procedure. These are the draft laws: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No.654; - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hydrographic Activity with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No.663; - Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Sweden on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Classified Data with the Final Proposal of Law, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No.661; - Proposal of the Law on the approval of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Finland on the Mutual Protection of Classified Data, with the Final Proposal of Laws, First and Second Laws. Please, any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? No, I'm not. I'm not. We're respected colleagues and... What? Yeah. Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 225(3) of the Rules of Procedure, there were no objections to the draft agenda referred to in the call for a meeting. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament can now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, with a call for today's session, for the 13th session of the Croatian Parliament. Do any of the MPs have objected to the inclusion in the agenda of the item: 1. Suggestion to show confidence, Mr. Mr Boris Lalovec to perform his duties as Minister of Finance; 2. Report on the work of the Committee for the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, the Cemetery of Victims of World War II and the cemetery of the postwar period for 2013? There isn't. Dear colleagues and respected fellow MPs, the agenda is thus established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Rules of Procedure, I should now publish the established agenda by reading all the points of the agenda. I suggest, if you agree, that I do not read fully but allow me to announce that the agenda set out is as I suggested in the final draft agenda. No objections. I'm saying, I'm finding that's how it's done. Let's go, dear colleague Damir Cain has his hand in the air, normally.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77630	I'm not asking for a break, but I'm wondering if there's any authority in this country to force the city of Pula to provide me with an answer after three or four months how much money they spend on the PRs, how much money they spend on the media. I said it's been three, four months. [[Breaking President: Comrade Cain!]] The answer is never coming. [[Breaking President: Comrade Cain!]] And with that public money, that their money is private, I don't care, Vice-President: Mr Cain!/...... [[Adversity President: Comrade Cain! ...corruption of the media......]] And over the PR What? [[Breaking President: Comrade Cain!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77631	Comrade Cain, you'll either be looking for a break or And then the parliamentary issues ended yesterday as far as the current one is concerned. [[I won't ask for a break.]] Please wait for me to finish and you will! [[- Yes, but I don't get answers.]] Yeah. [[All right, then.]] So, agent issues, the current morning is over yesterday. The Institute of Advocacy by written means exists permanently, every day, every time and we will ask for any question to be answered by the government, the ministry and others. And this isn't possible or correct, it's not quite right that you're speaking and no one else has anything else. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77632	It is not correct, Mr. President, that you do not use authority, not yours, but yours, but our Rules of Procedure and the positive regulations to force the city of Pula to answer the parliamentary question within 30 days to give me the answer I ask. I'm looking for an answer to the written question as to how many,... They won't answer me down or answer me through the Parliament how much money they spend on the media, how much money they spend on the PR agencies, they and their utility companies. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's about public money, it's not the mayor's money or a member of someone's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77633	A fellow representative, fellow MP, asks the government or the ministry to make sure that they are under surveillance. Surveillance, of course, please don't. [[I did, four months ago. Four months ago.]] Okay, thank you very much. [[Intruder: Has it arrived?]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Good if it's here.]] We can't turn a Question Assembly every day. Excuse me. We can continue in accordance with the established agenda. Dear fellow MPs, dear fellow MPs, first of all I wish to congratulate you on the Day of the Croatian Parliament. It is the day Croatia won the first multi-party democratic parliament. [[Applause]] May 30, 1990. Years. The celebration of the celebration will be held at 12 o'clock with representatives of political, social, cultural, economic and religious life in Croatia. I hope you'll respond, hang out with the representatives. In this way confirm the historical value of the date 30 May 1990. Thank you very much. And now, on the basis of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament proposed the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Immunity Commission Report, 1. Proposal for a confirmation of a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of India on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax with a final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 669, 1. Final proposal of the Law on a single body of art, second reading, P.Z. No. 557, 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fields of Special State Care with the final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 670, 1. Final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 612, 1. Proposal for a Law confirming the second loan for the development policy of economic recovery between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 671, 1.a)Proposed annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013, b)Proposed annual report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2013, 8. Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2013, 9. Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts for 2013, 10. Report by the State Audit Office on the audit of tourism communities and tourism institutes, 11. Report by the State Audit Office on the audit carried out on the conservation of nature, the protection of biodiversity and the management of national parks and 12. Amendments and additions to the Statutes of the Competition Protection Agency, confirmation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which determines firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws by emergency procedure. For the adoption of an emergency procedure, the laws referred to in points 2, 4, 6 of the draft amendments to the agenda have been proposed. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? There is. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77635	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community Club opposes the urgency of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas of Specific State Care for a simple reason, because it is a subject that requires a broad debate. And it would be good if we had a two-reading discussion about the high house. Because if someone already wants to get through certain things under cover of entering the European Union and taken up certain rights to units in the area of special state care, and we saw the winter of what happened to, due to the amendments to the Law on Mountain-mounted Mountain Areas with the Gorski Kotar. I think just this point deserves two readings in this High House. If someone is in a hurry, we can do two readings in one session, but it is important that we discuss twice that all objections on the one hand and on the other hand in this House, which are referred to this law, the Government can once again consider the final proposal, give the proposal, the final proposal of this Law on areas of special state care, because it will have significant implications for the financial budgets of the units in areas of special state care. My colleagues and colleagues, therefore, think that responsibility is primarily on the ruling coalition because these units of local self-government in areas of special state care should be one wheel in the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia and their wheel should go a little faster than in other parts of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77636	Thank you very much. There are no other objections, so let's first determine if we have a quorum. I'd like to request the presence of a representative. Thank you very much. We have 108 agents in the hall. We can decide all things. Now I'd like to join the decision-making process. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fields of Special State Care, P.Z. No. 670. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I note that the majority of votes, 80 votes in favour and 28 votes against, on the agenda of the emergency procedure, are included in the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the areas of special state care, P.Z. No. 670. Does any of the MPs have an objection to the inclusion on the agenda of the other proposed agenda points? There's no objection. Dear MPs and respected MPs, the agenda is complemented by this. Dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues, I sat there. You should always come back and look at how the view is from below, so there's... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The usual on Fridays. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I propose to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to supplement the agenda to the following points: 1st Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of EU Regulations on the European Group for Territorial Cooperation, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 672 Second proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the mutual protection of classified data, with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 673 3. Report by the State Audit Office on the audit carried out of the Annual Report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 4. Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2013 5. Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA for 2013 6. Report on the work of the Committee for the Decision on Conflict of Interest for 2013 7th proposal for a conclusion on the implementation of the previous debate in order to legally suspend the conduct of pedicures and actions of Croatian citizens from the only real estate they have and in which they live, the proposaler of the HDSSB Representatives Club. Dear colleagues and colleagues of Article 205 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Rules of Procedure are set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws by emergency procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which is the law under point 1 of the proposed addition of the agenda. For the adoption of an emergency procedure, the law under point 2 of the proposed amendment of the agenda has also been proposed. Does any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the mutual protection of classified data, P.Z. No. 673? There isn't. Do any of the MPs and advocates have objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed items of the updated agenda? There isn't. The esteemed fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs are hereby updated.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77639	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament thank you very much. Since I cannot comply with the provisions of Rule 224 of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask you to give that, in accordance with Article 174 paragraph 3 and 4 I try to warn this House of the High House of Law that contains certain legal failures which I am sure we will support by consensus because I do not want this consensus to take any negative political issues because someone does not know how to write the law properly. And I'd like to ask you if you'll allow me 2, 3 minutes to try to elaborate on giving the government space until reading in the Parliament to correct it. So, colleagues and colleagues, in article 4 of the proposed resolution law, you may find your colleague Lucine funny but it's not funny at all, and I don't want to politicise in this law at all. Therefore, Article 4 of this Act provides that the Government shall, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, decide on the redistribution of the funds referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. The Government shall, by redistributing the funds referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, report to the Croatian Parliament on the half-yearly annual report No, no, I'm asking you nicely, if you don't give me that, then I'm gonna ask for a break on behalf of the club that we can. ... [[Intruder: Comrade Shucker.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77640	You're looking for a break it's a democratic practice just to tell you why not. It's a debate on the content of the law. Wait till I'm done, wait till I'm done, why don't you, please? [[No, no, I'm begging you...]] This is a debate on the content of the law and we can change the content through the debate to the motions or amendments, that when the debate takes place, it's a business solution that we have. And if you're looking for a break on behalf of the club, you'll get a break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77641	Thank you very much. We can practically proceed immediately if you agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77642	Here you go. In the name of the club, respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77643	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I really have no intention of having this tragedy either politicized or thrown into political waters in any way, but my intention is to remove it. I'd like to well-intentionedly warn that we can pass the law and that those who are going to implement it can immediately implement it on the ground. Why am I saying that? So I said that the government in Article 4 provides for funding. However, colleagues and colleagues of Croatia have the Budget Law and the Budget Act in Article 46 regulates the redistribution of funds. The government did not at all refer to this article in Article 46 but, in fact, in Article 4, it is now laying down new rules on how to deal with the budget. Therefore, this problem with Article 4 can be solved in two ways. Or bring about an amendment to the law on the implementation of the state budget where this Parliament will authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be able to redistribute beyond that and that percentage and then the Government can do so. Or that the government proposes budget rebalancing only for these positions and that we do so and that, at the moment we declare this budget, it can practically be accessed by field work. My colleagues and colleagues like this proposed the law,... If you look at article 19, I won't strangle you by quoting him is something that is a violation of the basic legal rules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why I volunteered for the intervention without the intention of politicizing, although precisely because on Wednesday afternoon, when this law was passed, I hope that unanimity machines could go out in the field. And if you leave these provisions, then you'll leave something that's a total mess. And that's why I asked Mr. President to intervene. Due to the dignity of this high home, because of the wish shown by Croatian citizens over the past month to help the population, let's not let those who pass laws pass a law that is illegal. Because I'm going to quote you colleagues and colleagues, which tells you article 46, redistributing funds to the budget... in the case of budgetary users or between budget users, up to 5% of expenditure on budget expenditure may be incurred... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] adopted by a parliament or representative body which is being reduced if approved by the Minister of Finance. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to make it more clear to you why I intervene, then listen to Article 19 of the proposed law: "The reconstruction of buildings is carried out by means of a state budget collected from fees for the retention of illegally built buildings in the area under the law which provides for the treatment of illegally built buildings, the funds of the state budget in the budget items of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the entrepreneurship and crafts departments and the funds of the owners of residential buildings for the premiums of insurance of these buildings and donations of other elections.". And now, colleagues and colleagues, if you really think about the basis of these provisions, someone can do something about it, then we're wrong. So we're neither against putting a point on the agenda, nor are we against an emergency procedure. However, we will support the law, but we simply must warn that such a law, which makes sure that several thousand Croatian citizens can return to their homes does not stop anyone, that it does not cause any doubt, that there is no calling tomorrow, which unfortunately happens in Croatia. And I'm sorry that my intervention at the beginning caused a mockery with a colleague from the SDP. No political intention whatsoever. This is one pure human gesture, not a political gesture, but a human gesture. And as a former finance minister, I just can't let myself go through this bill of law in this House. Therefore, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, I propose that we give the Croatian Government a conclusion to amend one article of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget and to enable the Government to do all the things provided for in Articles 4 and 19. And another thing is that in this article on the implementation of the state budget, we oblige them to report to the Croatian Assembly on redistribution and practically inform us of this redistribution at the moment when the Government makes that decision on redistribution. And then we'll have clean work and clean hands, so unfortunately under this law, co-workers and colleagues who want to participate in the business can complain, can be called upon on this article 4 and, therefore, any commission will accept the appeal. And what is even worse in this Article 4 is that the exact same provisions of the application of redistribution of funds refer to units of local and regional self-government Just one more sentence, please. [[Thank you very much.]] Please, one more. I'm a colleague of the Stazits, a colleague of the Stazits.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77644	Please finish your performance, let me lead the session of my fellow Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77645	Well, then warn him why he's interrupting me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77646	I'm warning you now, you're out of your time, so we'll deal with another thing when it comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77647	Thank you very much, let's say, this is what Croatian citizens should have heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77648	It is. Now let me ask you, I didn't understand what you were going to say?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77649	... I've suggested to you the conclusion, sir... [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77650	Yes, to put this in the agenda rather than.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77651	... Mr. Explicate, I said that the HDZ Club is neither against putting on the agenda nor against the urgency of the procedure, though. [[Specially enabled.]] A conscious situation must be voted upon. We're up for it. But I suggested that you from this session find me a business opportunity, let us draw some conclusion to the government that you can laugh at us all you want, but Mr. President, this is a law that is not operationally enforceable, and we will discuss it in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77652	Thank you very much. I understand. It's now on the agenda to determine the agenda, Your Honor, Representative Shucker. And you yourself said you are not against the very proposal of the law or against the urgency of that law because I would really say about the extraordinary law, a law that should legally remedied the consequences of natural, natural disasters, floods in this part. And anything else that you consider to be good or bad in the law, you will suggest it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to supplement, amend or reject the amendments. And one more thing, lawyers know that the younger law derivates the older law if in conflict. I speak clearly, and you keep it to yourself. Thank you very much. Do any of the MPs have any objections to the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of the Law on Recovering the effects of a disaster in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County? There isn't. Do any of the MPs and advocates have objections to the inclusion in the agenda of other proposed agenda points? There isn't. Dear colleagues and respected fellow MPs, the agenda is complemented by this. Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Now we will comply with some small tradition of the Croatian Parliament, based on Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose an addition of the agenda. Therefore, we will stop to discuss the current agenda point and propose, in accordance with this Article, the addition of the agenda to the following points. 1. The Mandate-Immunity Commission report. 1. Report on the work of the European Affairs Committee. 1. Annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2013. 1. Proposed rules on the conduct of electronic media with national concessions in the Republic of Croatia during the election promotion - Proposer of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. 1. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of a deputy attorney for the children. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, does any of the MPs have an objection to the inclusion in the agenda of the proposed agendas? I don't think so. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Assembly the agenda is complemented by this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77656	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I have raised my hand before, after we have seen in the Club of Representatives of the HDZ that, in addition to the agenda, item 6 is also proposed, and this is the proposal for a decision to give a credible interpretation of Article 126(1), and in relation to Articles 60, 62 and 63. The law of the police. Since you proposed that point, the HDZ Representatives' Club is looking for a 30-minute break in order for the club to take a stand on that point. I would also like to inform you that we have filed a written objection to the inclusion of this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77657	It's not an emergency procedure, but we'll take a break, I agree. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77658	Mr. President, due to the proposed addition to the agenda, especially item 6 that was divided this morning, I'm looking for a 15-minute break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77659	I'm taking a break by 10:30, that's enough. At 10:30, follow-up. It's 10:00. 10 o'clock. Dear colleagues and respected fellow MPs. It ran out of time to look for club representatives. Let's hear what the position of the Croatian Democratic Community club in the Croatian Parliament is. Dear Representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77661	President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. After a famous lex Perkovic, another political-legal scandal directed by the SDP and its coalition partners is at hand. Proposal for a decision to give a credible interpretation of Article 126 The law on police and its possible adoption will be followed by lex Perkovic's most severe attack on the constitutional and legal order and the principle of government tridivision in the Republic of Croatia. Although it appears to be a technical matter, this is a first-class political and legal issue that can have serious far-reaching consequences on legal certainty, the rule of law and democratic order in the Republic of Croatia. What exactly is this about? The ruling Kukuriku coalition dissatisfaction with the ruling of the Administrative Court, the opinion of the Advocate General, the decisions of the Ministry of Administration's inspection and the Committee on State Service, who all interpreted the law equally with this credible interpretation, wants to amend one judicial decision and we have not had such practice in the Croatian Parliament so far. So, I repeat. None of the competent state institutions disputed to interpret the law, no one questioned the clarity of the law. This only makes the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and asks the Croatian Parliament to give a credible interpretation of that law. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the institute has been used so far, but I particularly stress that in 25 years of Croatian democracy, it has never happened that a credible interpretation of the law is required after a court ruling to aim to amend that verdict. This is not just the position of the Croatian Democratic Union. Listen to what the profession says, a whole series of recognised Croatian law experts said that the institute and such a decision is not good and that it will really endanger the Croatian state-law order. It is particularly important to stress that the request for credible interpretation came from the Prime Minister. So, the plan is through the subjugation of the ruling majority, the executive authority wants to amend a court decision that I disagree with. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, is now responsible for preventing such a thing and not happening. You will not be able to transfer responsibility to the government, you will be responsible for the Prime Minister and you will be guilty if such a thing happens and fall back to the Croatian Parliament, or most of them in the Croatian Parliament for voting one such one, I must say embarrassing decisions. I call on you to protect legal certainty, to give the Croatian citizens a message that you are not obedient followers of what is sent from the other side of Mark's square and that you will, by your decisions, by your conduct, restore the dignity of this Croatian Parliament and I repeat once again what is most important to restore the faith of Croatian citizens to legal certainty and respect for the Constitution and the Croatian legal order. Unfortunately, if you do not do so, the Croatian Democratic Community club will not participate and the Croatian Democratic Community club will not give any legitimacy to the possible decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77662	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77663	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. In our opinion, there are five reasons why he does not respect the conditions for this item to be placed on the agenda of this session of the Parliament. First, the institute of credible interpretation in a stable constitutional democracy should not or should exist. Especially after Croatia enters the EU. And we should really ask our Rules of Procedure because only in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament is the institute. He's neither in the Constitution nor in other regulations. Second, there have been litigation and litigation on this vague provision of one article of the law. The administrative court, if I have 141 items, 141 officers, the police officer has requested protection from the administrative court. The judgments brought so far in this case of the Administrative Court are identical, i.e. the same provisions of the law were interpreted as the Committee on the State's Service, the Advocate General, and I remind you that the Assembly had accepted her report and, within that report, the two recommendations applied precisely to the application of this disputed article of the law, and by accepting that report, the Assembly accepted the recommendation of the Advocate General that the Law on State Service must be respected and that this provision was incorrectly applied, as well as inspection and inspection solutions. It is simply not possible for the Committee on State Service, the Advocate General, the Inspectorate and the Administrative Court to misread and interpret the laws. A third reason, a credible interpretation if the Assembly adopted it would have entered into force, i.e. from the date of entry into force of the Police Act. This basically means that this interpretation would have a return effect, which is contrary to the Constitution of Article 90. The Republic of Croatia and Mr President precisely because there is no argument on this proposal for a decision on interpretation for the re-action of the provision of the law in this interpretation that the conditions for inclusion in the agenda have not been established. The Constitution allows for the return of certain provisions of the law only if there are reasonable reasons for this, and in the act we have received there are no arguments, specific reasons for the return of one such act of the Assembly. The fourth reason, the regulation on the classification of police officers' posts with which we should actually agree to the provision of the bill, is that the Parliament interprets the disputed provision so that the Government interprets it by adopting the regulation is subject to the constitutional court's inquiry. This Regulation is in the Constitutional Court. Imagine the situation for the Constitutional Court to bring down the regulation, and we interpret the law in accordance with a possible non-constitutional regulation. If there is already a problem, I think that both the government and the prime minister and the parliament should wait until then the word of the Constitutional Court and see who's right. And the fifth reason, a large number of criticisms and justifiable ones, we experienced every time we changed the law significantly, any of them. And by doing so, we created legal uncertainty. This time it tries to apply no changes to the law because the Proposer is aware that by changing the law and proposing a possible amendment or supplementing the law has no conditions for reverse action and therefore is used or trying to use an authentic interpretation institute. And I think this would be a scandalous political decision by Parliament that accepts the interpretation of the law as the executive authority interpreted it by its regulation. I will not invite you to cancel your obedience to the government as the HDZ's 8 years have never failed to obey the government, but I will call you to my conscience and oath that we will respect the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77664	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues that, fortunately in the Croatian legal system on legislative powers, there was no decision by the individual, we will be in line with the government's trodiment, and the remarks on the inclusion in the agenda of the items under the emergency procedure have not been made, so we will consider the proposal to include point 6. Giving a credible interpretation decides in the Croatian Parliament in a democratic way. Of course, the principle of government or rule of law has not been abolished, so all decisions are subject to further examination of legality and constitutionality. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please confirm the quorum. We don't have a quorum. Unfortunately, that's not what we put item 6 in the agenda because we can't decide without a quorum. All other points are included in the agenda following the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow MPs, distinguished colleagues, begin the plenary session of the 13th session of the Croatian Parliament. I would now propose to supplement the agenda on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I propose the addition of the agenda to one point - a proposal for a decision to give a credible interpretation of Article 126(1) and in relation to Articles 60, 62 and 63. Police Act (National Journal) No. 34/11. and 130/12.) Please, does one of the MPs have an objection to inclusion? Please, honourable representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77666	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, really, even though we could have expected it if it was from you, it's too much. So, Friday didn't pass that point because of the lack of quorum and now you're trying to put it back on the agenda. It's unacceptable to the HDZ club. We're looking for a 30-minute break to make a statement about putting that item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77667	Thank you very much. There's no other request for a break? I'm setting a break. We'll be here at 9.50. Thank you very much. It's 9:00.35. Dear colleagues and respected counterparts of the break at the request of the HDZ Club in the Croatian Parliament have expired. I ask the party's representative, the respected representative of Gordan Jandrokovic, to state the position of the club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77669	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. On Friday, when we voted on the inclusion of new points in the agenda, we believed that common sense had won and that you had avoided putting this point on the agenda by skillful maneuver. Unfortunately, it didn't happen that way because here from the plane is visible and everyone knows that a call has arrived from the other side of Mark's square where you were told shame you were not respected what you were told, which you were ordered to do and now you have a nice Monday at 9.30 everyone gather and put the point on the credible interpretation of the Police Act on the agenda. Unfortunately for you, that's how it was, and now we have what we have. Once again, the Croatian Parliament has been brought into a humiliating position in relation to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, again the ruling majority becomes an instrument in the hands of the Prime Minister and you will re-emerge at the Croatian Parliament if you put this item on the agenda and if you do not give it to God and vote. You're acting according to that aphorism from the former system that the comrades say you've reached the edge of the break-in, take a decisive step. Here, just what you're doing right now, that's it. You will again cause a whole series of reactions and professions and competent state institutions that will undo your decision and we will again have financial damage to the state budget for taxpayers but also another slap to the rule of law and the functioning of constitutional-legal order in the Republic of Croatia. What you're doing, no matter what you're angry we're telling you, but it's a revolutionary right. Here the whole series of principles on which modern democracy rests, from the stability of constitutional and legal order, from legal certainty, from the rule of law, from the division of power, from the fact that we cannot retroactively interpret the laws. All of this after you vote this credible interpretation will fall into the water. It will all happen in the same way as it did in the case of lex Perkovic when the ruling majority, due to the inadmissible policy and government, as well as the entire majority in the Parliament, all parties participating in the Kukurik coalition were thrown one ugly slag at the Republic of Croatia. What you're doing right now is identical to that. And I will remind you, as I said last Friday, never in 25 years of Croatian democracy has it happened that a credible interpretation of the law is required after a court ruling with the aim of amending that judgment. You have in your ranks the lawyers, you have those who should understand and understand, but obviously you don't care about the laws at all, you don't care about institutions at all, you want to do your political will where it cracks. And it's hard for me to figure out what changed from Friday to today? Can't you really resist attacks on the other side, even when it's so clear, flagrantly violates the constitutional and legal order, when the rule of law is violated, when all the gains we've been building over the past 25 years are destroyed. It is an incredible ease to engage in such political and legal adventures that will not benefit anyone, which will further cause financial damage to Croatian citizens, who will embarrass the Croatian Parliament, all of this means nothing to you. I warn you once again don't do this, you did this in the case of lex Perkovic, you also attacked your ministers at the Constitutional Court, I would remind you of the statements made by Minister Opačić, then Minister Jovanovic, you attacked the Supreme Court, you remember a high source from the government, you remember the attack on Judge Kolakusic in the case of bankruptcy, pre-war settlements. Nothing's enough for you, you're going on now. But this is the most drastic example of your life, and this is going to come back to you the most. Our warning is once again given to you, we will certainly find ways to deal with you politically about it, but you are doing damage to the Republic of Croatia and it is not only the responsibility of the Prime Minister, here is responsibility and guilt on all of you from the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77670	Thank you very much. And now we're going to democratically state who's in favor of putting this on the agenda? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I note that most votes, 83 for and 5 votes against the agenda are included in the proposal for decisions to give a credible interpretation of Article 126(1) and in relation to Articles 60, 62 and 63. Police law, National Journal 34/11 and 130/12/12. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, we are now starting to ask questions to the Government, or to an individual member of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of Rules of Procedure, Articles 132 to 139. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. We move on to asking questions according to a set order. Thank you very much. First question, Honourable representative Nedzad Hodzic. Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77855	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My question is for the Minister of Economy, Mr... It's on. Mr. Ivan Vrdoljak, as regards the realisation of the project of the thermal power plant Plomin C. Namely, the importance of this project is multiple, and I will mention 3 in my view the most important aspect. The size of this investment is such that it will significantly affect the country's GDP in the years in which it is realised. Secondly, strengthening the country's energy independence through its own electricity production and the introduction into the 500-megawatt RH electricity system is of exceptional importance not only because of the substitution of electricity imports, but also as an essential assumption for further development of production and industry as a whole. And thirdly, new employment directly at the Plomin thermal power plant itself, but also its indirect impact on new jobs in Labinština and all of Istria, will give it an important contribution to reducing unemployment in the Republic of Croatia. My question is, Mr. Minister, how do you assess the dynamics of realising this extremely important investment for the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77856	Answer to the question asked, Honored Minister Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77857	Your Honor. Agent, thank you for asking. So all you pointed out as the importance of this project is, of course, true. It has exceptional importance in all three segments, and employment and growth of industry and substitution of energy imports and diversification of sources and our production and to be honest, a few months ago I would have answered you more in general than directly as I can today. Regardless of the efforts and colleagues from HEP and colleagues from the ministry to communicate with potential bidders who passed the first round of selection, I was a little afraid whether the offers, given the state of the energy market of the world and the region, will be offered at the level of 800m euros of investment to come from Korea, Japan, Europe..., whether they will come and come all three, so today we are at a stage that offers are open, that by the end of the 5th month an indicative choice of bidders that satisfy the basic conditions is going to be negotiated. Before the end of the 8th month, a preferred bidder is selected and negotiated around the financial part and at the end of 2014, we expect to sign a contract on that investment and I expect that we will start working in half of 2015 because after the signing of the contract the block itself is going to be projected and it will take one 2 years, but all the other facilities that have to work there are already at the stage of designing and obtaining building permits, so I expect that we will already start building that block by half 2015, the effects will be great for the industry, as you say, I will not repeat. And we have another very good message on that block. Croatia is today, the investment environment in Croatia is investment enough to have bids of 800m euros, companies that are not up until a few months ago or a few years ago knew the minors where Croatia is... and so on, so that I would like to highlight this byproduct when such companies offer such large projects and such large money here, means that the message to everyone else that things have changed in Croatia, and I personally think that after these offers, we will have no problem with signing contracts and realisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77858	Thank you, too. Appreciation of Honorable Representative Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77859	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Namely, I thank you for your reply. I am pleased with the answer, and what I think would be important to say once again in this House is that, with respect to all environmental standards, this country must not run from industrialisation. The state of industrial development in this country of production is such that 5 times and twice as much production cannot even be neared by respecting environmental standards to disrupt some kind of ecological and bring some kind of ecological threat to this country, so that fama needs to be broken. And on the other hand, you should know that the world's most developed countries are the ones that are industrialized like Germany, Japan, the United States, so we're not even close to getting close to those countries, but we have to take the first step. Without the development of industry and production, there is no further economic viability of this country. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77860	Thank you, Your Honor. The second question is the respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77861	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Branko Greek. When you took responsibility for the economic situation of the nation, you made a public promise that all negative trends would be stopped in 2012, that in 2013, there would be an economic growth of up to 2.5%, and you explicitly announced in 2014 the economic boom and growth above 4%. They waved promises of investment, employment and economic boom. As a guarantee of these promises, you have made your political position available, how is it today contrary to the promise when you will activate the given guarantee and resign? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77862	The answer to the parliamentary question is respected Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77863	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad my colleague Goran Maric asked one of these questions. Indeed, the key problem of the Croatian state over the last 6 years is recession, a deep recession with all the consequences for the economy for the issue of unemployment growth and job losses, especially in the real sector, so all we know very well. This government when it came to the Ban Courts set up a clear program that consisted of three key things. It's one thing to put public finances in order and actually solve all the mess that we found there with a bunch of debts and all those dues. Some of us knew about some of the gods we didn't know about. The second big question is the launch of reforms. We have launched serious reforms, especially in terms of introducing order in all areas of society. The reforms are not over, we have defined them, we have implemented them, we have received the full support of the European Commission and even in advisory assistance based on their experiences in all other countries. We have teams that work daily to prepare and implement these reforms, so everything that hasn't been moving for years, which wasn't working at this point is actually in effect. The third large area is investment and economic growth. You see, a small wheel is easy to start, relatively easy to run, and even easier to stop, and if the thing on the market doesn't go the way it should. To run thousands and thousands, tens of thousands of wheels in what is called the economy of a country is much harder. Well, you see that takes a lot of time. In some countries, it has lasted much longer than this government has done, and I argue that in two years, this government has made good bases for this big wheel of Croatian economy to start. They're not phrases and they're not promises. This year carries some new winds, carrying some new indicators of growth in industrial production, about which shortly before the economy minister said something, export growth almost 8% in the first quarter of this year, growth in personal consumption, so all key components in the GDP structure are growing. Is that an indication of a serious turnaround in the economy? I believe we're at the beginning of that turn and that's what's really going to happen. We're careful, that we're careful because we need to be and the time behind us teaches us to be careful. In this part of the year, public spending grew, public consumption is subject to fiscal consolidation and excessive deficit procedures. What we had in the first quarter, which is a growth in public consumption of 4.1%) unfortunately we won't have in the next quarter because we're implementing that procedure. This is the caution that this government has in mind and will be guided by this and therefore we will wait to see how these trends in the private sector will continue, and I believe that with our support, with the support of the Government, with the support of public projects and investments, with the support in terms of strengthening the business climate and reducing the burden on the economy, it will certainly be a good way to continue these trends in the follow-up of the year. So everything you said is actually very, very questionable.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77864	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the respected representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77865	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, your answers are usually quite euphoric, more empty than content. As academic citizens, I think you know the importance and meaning of every spoken word and obligation that comes out of them. 60 thousand more unemployed, ninth quarter of a consecutive economic downturn, general economic depression, the devastating consequences of your... economic solutions impose a moral act of resignation on us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But instead of resigning, you offer a prophecy. You explain every day to the public and to the Croatian people why yesterday did not happen what you announced the day before yesterday, you are actually a prophet who prophesys backwards. Your main two specifics of justice and social thinness are best depicted by justice through the Law on Pre-superfit settlements in the most deplorable way. It is the most unfair, most critical law against common sense and sound logic of the law against economic profession. And social thinness is best pictured of the budget allocated to the guardians of the psychiatric hospital in Ugljan where they have 18 kuna for a whole day's diet and you only have 602 kuna in one day for fruit. 33 times more a day for fruit than for a whole day's food. I'd like to see you, governor and Prime Minister at lunch instead of in Touch for 18 kuna somewhere else. While this is the only solution to the resignation because as history teaches people wisdom, mathematics more capable, thorough, logic experienced, your economic policy teaches people to be hungry. So bring the right measure of economic recovery to an end, resign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77866	Thank you, too. The third parliamentary issue of the respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77867	Thank you very much, President. The question is for the prime minister. What are you going to do about the restoration of industry in the Republic of Croatia? Just to remind you of 31.12.2011, you were in Sisak. Then you announced the rescue of Sisak Ironworks, the opening was announced, the mass opening of jobs, you announced the rescue of Segestice Sisak and HERBOS. These two companies don't exist today. On 18 January 2012, I asked a question on the current morning and I received an answer regarding the Gredel factory that it will continue to work and produce Croatian low-level trains. Apparently, due to the rescue of the factory, bankruptcy was launched under rather suspicious circumstances and under the pressure of the minister of traffic. The company is almost out of business and workers have not received any severances, although Minister Mrsic argues otherwise in response to the parliamentary issue. HŽ CARGO is almost destroyed, ugly buildings as probably one of the most successful construction firms in Croatia you sell. It's about fate and Petrochemia and the Sisak Refinery, it's all about over 10,000 jobs. What will you do about it, what further can we expect from you? And how many more companies are you going to close down and how many employees are you going to move to the stock market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77868	Thank you, too. Answering the parliamentary question, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77869	Your Honor. Dear fellow MP, within the legal possibilities and rules of the competition, we will do everything, but we promise to do something we cannot or cannot do by discriminating others on the market, we cannot do it. And when you talk about promises, we never made such promises, and we won't. Some of those companies you were talking about work today and are more competitive than ever with less employees. It's like that all over the world. And now for the greater added value. Croatia's shipbuilding works, is struggling, has not completely gone to the drum like Poland and Bulgaria. And no one can guarantee that in a year's time it will be what we all want it to be, but the chance exists, it's restructured, the ships are built which is for the orderrs, which, depending on the world market cycle, is worth more. And that important and I would say the emotionally important and historical branch of the Croatian industry in which we were once the third in the world 30 years ago for gross tone but never by profit will I believe in 10 years to be not proud. This is not a matter of pride but simply a success that will create added value from which we will finance everything that you and your party want to finance as well as my party and coalition partners. And these are social activities, social services, health care and education, it's all a closed circle. So let's be realistic, sober, persistent, law-abiding, understand what is forbidden state support. Because when you invite me to keep a job the way you want it, then I must remind you that today is unfortunately illegal. Some, unfortunately, will have to lay down their weapons in this game, but it will become new and stronger and better to fight, which will be exported and we see these grow today. Those who are willing and for little undertaking and for little adventures with state aid, where the state can help but not with discrimination and covered support. Because whoever you support in this way will sooner or later come back for help. People need to learn that, I know that sounds like a phrase, but it's a very good phrase, to catch fish, not to be given all the time. If they're starving, they need to be given a fish, but they need to do everything they can to keep them from starving and catch that fish on their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77870	It's an indication of the respected representative of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77871	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, I'd like to start by asking a written answer to this. You haven't listed which of those companies that I've listed so far have been successful. Honestly, I don't know any, perhaps HZ CARGO who won the competition in a really suspicious way and with the help of your minister. I think the same thing should go to the right reaction on your part. And I'll point out that you haven't been around long when you worked shifts at the Ministry of Finance mentioned political responsibility. And you know well that we as a party support it. But do you think there is a political responsibility here for either of you, any of your associates on this matter? I counted over 10,000 jobs for you. I think the answer you gave, no offense, but it doesn't satisfy us both as agents or me as a person or as a Croatian citizen. Perhaps you would be, I don't know, a more meaningful answer if I asked you a question that is the attitude of you and your government, let's say, in terms of divorce between Nives Celzius and Dino Drpic than this, these are phrases that repeat each day, not a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77872	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Franco Vidovic asked a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77873	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, in recent months we have witnessed increased media attention towards the work of the intelligence apparatus, or more specifically according to the work of the Security Intelligence Agency. It all started with a famous case of hiring an employee at the Security Intelligence Agency, which failed a security check allegedly to insist on the very head of Mr. Tomislav Karamark's agency at the time. It's also published in one of the daily lists. After that, cases of fictitious employee employment appeared for two, three days in SOA to avoid public competitions in other services because SOA is not subject to public competition. The Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy and National Security held a session, formed a working group aimed at investigating whether such abuses were indeed taking place by the directors of the Agency, but also by other civil servants who, or state officials, had taken over such employees. Your Honor, Prime Minister, how do you comment on such cases? Can citizens today trust in the work of the intelligence apparatus, or can they be calm and certain that such abuses will no longer occur?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77874	The answer to the parliamentary question is respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77875	Dear Mr. Representative, I can comment much less, but I can say more of my position as you asked me to and say some things I simply know as Prime Minister because it is my constitutional and legal duty. It is good that the parliamentary committee, or working group established by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, was convinced, convinced, and not only of the eyes of the ruling majority, but also of the opposition that was happening, which was done, and now it is in the hands of some other authorities, so let them do what they want. What I can tell you is that today, i.e. from the moment when this majority chosen by the Croatian people, Croatian citizens came into office and received the honor of leading the state. So, in the security services in these two and a half years, no one is employed because of the catastrophic disorder and birth, so too many people are inadequately prepared, and we keep it under the influence of national security, because all procedures are rigorous that once existed on purpose so that they can do what they want. Today is impossible, today it is impossible for anyone in such a service and the Security Agency to be admitted if it does not meet the most exact test criteria. So the difference is huge. But I repeat, no one has been admitted yet. When it is, it will be very rigorous competitions that are always to a certain extent discreet, but not in a way that steals people and their trust and that the service is used as a springboard for hiring relatives and friends in other state services for which the competition is otherwise needed. It's a serious offense, and if it's a crime, it's not my domain. So today it's impossible for you to fall for a security check and get up again, go to the director or the Prime Minister or the President of the Republic, hug you and say it's all settled. Reception procedure aborted. Once just a few years ago, it worked out in a way that everything could have been arranged, everything could've been ironed out, we're good people, we'll make a deal. But when you do a favor once or two, you'll do ten, a hundred. But there are thousands of citizens left who have been deceived. It's a fraud policy. It is no longer in Croatia, and especially there is no place where it is most sensitive and where it is very important that there is trust of citizens in the safety apparatus, that it works according to the law, that it works strictly, that it works in a way that protects their safety so that they can simply sleep peacefully and live peacefully. The difference is huge, that's what I can tell you. Everything's changed better!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77876	Appreciation of the esteemed representative Frank Vidovic. Franco Vidovic's statement. Oh, no? Thank you very much. The fifth parliamentary question of the respected MPs, Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77877	Thank you, Your Honor. I refer the question to the prime minister, or the Prime Minister. Namely, the Ministry of Agriculture, it is visible from their testimony in the media to support the liberalisation of the production and use of hemp. Here is a euro representative from the SDP ranks who supports even the legalisation of medical cannabis. On the other hand, the Ministry of Health strongly opposes the liberalisation of hemp and legalisation of medical cannabis. As prime minister, you can only answer the question of the government's political position on this subject, so here it is, I ask you what the government's position is on the liberalisation of industrial hemp and the legalization of Indian hemp.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77878	Answer to the question, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77879	Your completely legitimate attempt to sow some discrepancies between us will not succeed because the parliamentary representative is a natural person, one political identity, and the ministry whose position you state has no attitude. So, the ministry is an institution. We can talk about the minister's position or the individual's attitude. So, the minister as head of the body of the state administration who is perfectly normal in the party from which you know you left and you remember very well in the SDP that people about some issues that may not be fundamental but are developing do not have the same attitude. So, in sects, people look at one point and think the same thing, and in modern political parties that I suppose is your people about some of the issues that even the strongest democracies break, say the United States, Germany, the UK have different views and that diversity we will listen to and then at some point make a decision about it. That moment hasn't come yet, and I don't think it's gonna come for a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77880	It's an observation of a respected representative of Mirale Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77881	So I am not actually satisfied with the answer because I believe that the liberalisation of industrial hemp is not a politically sensitive issue given that industrial hemp really has a very small share of THC and there are huge, but indeed huge economic potentials in terms of the exploitation of this culture and I do not see why the competent health ministry would not change two articles of the law relating to this issue and why the Ministry of Agriculture would not adopt a new regulation that regulates this problem and thus enables the Danish investors who had an interest in doing this project in a hothouse and thus opening up a whole series of new jobs. So I can still understand that in some ways it listens to what is happening in terms of legalization of medical cannabis or Indian hemp, but I really don't see what the problem is about full liberalisation of industrial hemp. Industrial hemp as is likely to be known to all is indeed an extremely useful plant, a soil cleaner plant. It produces about 50,000 different products. Croatia also has geographical and climate conditions very good for the production of this culture, and I would just like to remind that the former state was second in the production of industrial hemp all over the world. And it's a shame to miss out on that potential.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77882	Thank you very much. The sixth parliamentary question, the esteemed representative of Branko Boxtija.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77883	I thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Greek. Mr. Vice-President, on several occasions, you have mentioned the programmes through which the projects for local or regional self-government were provided and can you tell us how much you have prepared projects for the period 2014-2020 for the last two years and what the project values are, since structural funds are provided for regional development of around 8 billion euros, starting with 2014? And in 2013 we were allowed to spend 450m euros. I also ask for an answer on these projects that you have been preparing to fund how successfully has been applied to EU funds so far, so especially with a view to spending these 450 million that are scheduled for 2013?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77884	Answer to the parliamentary question, Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77885	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. As for the preparation of projects by the Ministry of Regional Development since last year, so before the last pardon in 2012, funding the preparation for the first time at local level. In the first year 35 million kuna was allocated for that purpose, so very serious money. Unfortunately, we didn't spend it entirely because there was too little initiative from the local level. You're not gonna believe this, but the contests we've called have been reported by too few people. We have regional development agencies as regional coordinators through which we also carry out this work and they are internally in their regions, in their counties calling and we funded it. In the last year, we booked about 50 million kunas in total for project preparation, and of course we also didn't take advantage of it, I have to say very openly, because it simply wasn't done in local self-government units and so on. the potential users of the projects that have been preparing. So we were very prepared to finance it all the way, but it went through this year. However, the answer to your question in the second part is very clear, we did not wait for only those projects to be prepared. I will also say by number, so in the first year 35 projects were on the list of those we finance in the preparation phase, and last year 50 total projects. In addition, we co-financed some EU projects and substituted the funds of local communities. The truth is not a large number, but we've reacted to it interveningly and we've helped to realize certain projects. So, in that part, we helped local self-government to make the process better. As for what the state has done in this part of the absorption, it has done very much in these two and a half years. We've set up IPA funds 2.5 times at this point, and the funds paid out, so it's realized on the ground, three times. So in two years compared to four years ago, we tripled the payments. In total, 72% of the funds are agreed at this time, and by 2016, so by the end of 2016 we have the right to further negotiate. As for the 450 million we received in the second half of last year, 170m euros were agreed at this time, the water supply system in Osijek, Poreč and a major project of equipment for research labs at the Rijeka University plus a programme of project preparation in the field of innovation, education, education, means around 10m euros. These are the money that will be spent in this part of science and higher education in the next year. And we have complete projects that cover the rest of the 450m-euro allotment, and by the end of the summer I hope to arrange all projects except for one big one, which is the Long Selo-Križevci railway, rebuilding the railway around 200m euros. The problem was with the competition. So we're not hiding any information. The competition is repeated, the competition will be completed by autumn, the deal is by the end of the year. So, we'll make a full allocation. The 2014 Allocation projects worth a billion euros were adopted by the government the other day, 16 major projects and 13 grand schemes fully cover 8 billion kuna values. Thus, this government is working extremely quickly and efficiently on the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77886	Thank you very much. It's an indication of the esteemed representative of Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77887	Thank you. So here in your answer you mentioned neutral means, i.e. unpreparedness in some way units of local and regional self-government. We who work in exactly that space testify to the exact opposite, right? So, the fact is that the budget of local self-government units is in a catastrophic state and that these same units of local self-government do not have enough money to finance and prepare projects, let alone co-financing or construction. It's a fact, I don't know if you're aware of it or not. The fact that you mentioned it was prepared means to the greatest extent you inherited it from the previous government, if you will admit it, if not, of course, it's your right. Last week it seems to me at the press conference you mentioned an surplus in the budget, about 895 million kuna related to the funds. So, the fact is it's about the advance we got at 150 million euros from these 450. We need to spend these funds and ensure at least 15% of our own resources. Now, that matters how you do it? So co-financing can be provided only, or you can, through the back of the citizens. And the best example is that of these prepared projects the largest part refers to projects in the Croatian Waters area. You've increased the price of water and thus secured it means the same co-financing. How are we going to withdraw these 8 billion euros is the best way to say that you spent 14 million kunas last year to prepare 73 local projects. That way, and with this dynamic, my dear vice president, there's no theoretical chance that we can withdraw those 8 billion kunas. So you'd better stop spreading optimism, do something concrete. If you can't do it, it's honorable to resign.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77888	Thank you very much. The seventh parliamentary question, the respected representatives of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77889	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister. President, you have categorically stated recently that no one can damage the state and that whoever does such a thing will be held accountable. On the trail of such a statement, I ask you a very short question, what will you do in the case of Ms. Višnja Felker, head of the Tax Administration of Rijeka, who, by her inaction, has damaged the state budget for more than 200 million kunas because she has allowed tax debts to go out of date? To my question more than a year ago here in this same assembly of ministers unfortunately I heard the truth, I didn't hear the truth, I would like to hear from you really what you're thinking of doing and will you in this case call someone to file a report in that case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77890	Thank you, too. The answer to the parliamentary question is respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77891	Dear MPs, two weeks ago, I was talking about how maybe as a government, we've gone over some of the irregularities that have been happening continuously over the last 6.7 years. I guess what you're talking about also falls within that category. I don't know about the person, I don't know about the case. So you can report it to the authorities, I'm serious about what I've called for, and that's all I can do, to examine everything that's happened, or what's been going on, and it's in the criminal sphere in the last seven years, so there's been no statute of intent or intention. For a crime like this, it's not crucial, but it's also very important. Unfortunately, it was a mental map in Croatia until 2nd year ago. The mental map was that state debts were not charged, that they were being arbitrational, which means that I was fond of someone close to me, and someone who wasn't close to me and couldn't get to me, and that's where we're going by law. That's impossible now because we have electronics. So there is no way for anyone from the officers to the head of the branch office to reach the Zagreb Central Office in any way pleases you, your friend or any tenth. So what you just said sounds very serious. I still can't comment on it anymore what happened clearly in history in a long time. The amount you're talking about is huge. The authorities will have work to do here, if that's what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77892	Appreciation of the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77893	Thank you, Mr. President. And to you, Mr. President, for your answer. Unfortunately, it is in the institutions, that subject is there, but we are all witnessing that things are being resolved selectively and that they are being solved when someone is uriging and really right now in the truth and I'm asking you this question here today because we see that some things are starting to solve some kind of intervention regardless of what it is. You said no more guessing, I'm telling you that still with all the good systems that we have and the theory that we're talking about practice is something else, that it's still convenient. And on this particular case, trust me in these years since we've asked questions, in all the systems that we have in tax administrations, the damage is much greater than the 200 million we're dealing with and the ones we're talking about. I would really ask you to answer me in writing on this request and to note that institutions have, that it does not work, that the subject is not opened and that as Prime Minister in your beliefs, that such people should be punished, you are indeed doing everything in your power to keep these things from happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77894	Thank you, too. Eighth parliamentary question of the respected vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77895	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, I would like to address the question to Mr. Arsen Bauk, the secretary of the administration. In Vukovar due to charges of corruption and theft of your SDP board member, he had to resign as mayor soon to hold early elections, so there will be elections that will again cost money to the poor Vukovar, which the government is referring to as a macho. But the data suggests that the City of Vukovar has 4929 voters more than the total population. So, including all minors, because according to the last census, there were 2783 residents, while according to police records in Vukovar, there are reportedly 42231 people, and according to the official census, as many as 32612 people have the right to vote. We all know that the vast majority of these voters actually live in the Republic of Serbia and use the Vukovar address only to achieve social and other rights, and that in famous buses they appear at the polls whenever elections are held, of course voting in the rule for the SDP and its allies. It is well known that some people in the register of Vukovar voters, for example, are properly registered to addresses where they are completely torn down houses where no one lives or that 9 people are registered at an address, and indeed only 1 person lives. Because of this clear difference from about 5,000 voters to the population, it is also clear that no elections in Vukovar at this time would be legal or fair. If you are finally planning to wrap up the lists of voters in Vukovar, how these elections, but also those for the European Parliament, would not be declared a common fraud in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77896	Answer to the parliamentary question, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77897	Thank you, Mr. President. Thanks for asking. It is an opportunity to say something about it in the Croatian Parliament. First, elections are being debated because the budget has not been passed until the legal deadline, not because of the mayor's charges as discussed in another municipality where the mayor is already legally convicted, the same day will be the same. That's the first finding. Secondly, there are 27,000 795 voters on the list of voters in Vukovar, which was in this past one election, which is about 4 and a half thousand voters less than it was when your party was in power. At that time, there were 32,000 and something, which means that the number of voters who were surpluses, in alleged signs, fell to 4 in the list of voters from 9,000 because 23 thousand and 18 adult residents were listed in 2011 at the 3rd month. So that surplus is twice as small as it was when HDZ was in power. Let's just figure it out. Of that surplus, in alleged signs, there are indeed 1849 Croats, 2322 Serbs and 554 others. So, I doubt 1849 Croatians come by bus from Serbia, I doubt it. And these 554 others don't seem as likely to me either. Therefore, the list of voters in Vukovar and all other parts of Croatia is more orderly and true than it was 2 years ago, and these differences really need to be determined, but I say there is therefore both Croats and Serbs. Here, 1849 Croats and 2322 Serbs. Compared to the total number of inhabitants, yes, members of the Serb minority are more proportionate, but this is the case throughout Croatia, so if there are 180 thousand of them in the number of voters, and in the number of voters, 220 thousand, the moss is about people who had residences before, went to live outside and did not restore the documents, they were deleted from the list of voters and therefore we have fewer than several hundred thousand in Croatia, so that's what this is about. Now the list of voters is even more settled, and in the elections in Vukovar I wish you a correct political fight and success as much as you and we and all those who participate in the elections and that the elections will be more... /The speaker has been excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77898	The obvious vice president of the House, the esteemed Željka Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77899	Thank you very much. Well, of course I'm not happy. Namely, when you say that the list is more arranged, then I must remind you that it took down 400 thousand voters outside the Republic of Croatia in the previous elections at 2247, it's a really fantastic arrangement and we can only congratulate on it. However, let us remember that before the last elections in 2013 in Vrgorec, in which HDZ received a majority in the elections for years, one of the authorities simply circled 1200 names on the voters' list, and then by lightning police action, deleted more than 1000 citizens from the residence records if the officers did not find them at home at that time and whether they were at work, on the road, with friends, with parents, etc. Similarly, in other parts of Croatia where HDZ received most, from Drnis to Imotski, and I am convinced that this approach could solve this in Vukovar, but obviously it did not want to. It seems that your government is guided by thinking about it... that some are more equal than others, but neither will those cats save you, you will lose the elections both in Vukovar and for the European Parliament and all the following. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77900	Thank you very much. 9th parliamentary question, respected MPs Đurjice Plancic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77901	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask the Minister of Environmental and Nature Protection, Mr. Michael Zmajlovic. Dear Ministers, your ministry recently launched a project to co-finance the purchase of organic vehicles, hybrid and electric vehicles for citizens and legal persons. This project has raised great interest in both citizens and companies, so I'm wondering exactly how many vehicles have been allocated and how much less harmful emissions do you intend to do, so you plan to continue to encourage this type of car purchase? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77902	Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Michael Zmajlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77903	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So this measure is not only a mere fulfillment of the EU's obligations, it is a responsibility to citizens, towards the environment, that what we are doing is actually improving the quality of life of our citizens, all of us living in the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because if we take a quarter of the harmful gases, the emissions come from traffic, and out of that 70% from road traffic, then it's very clear how we have to act, so let's cut emissions. In order to do so, we must also change our fleet to the Republic of Croatia. The fact that the average age in Croatia is 11 years and that these vehicles are not some newer date, more recent technology, that they have significant emissions in transport, we must encourage all those who are thinking about changing the vehicle to take into account this ecological component as well. So that these vehicles have fewer emissions, if they have fewer emissions, less consumption, less maintenance costs, etc. Finally, to influence this, we had to build this measure, which is to encourage the purchase of hybrid electric and hybrid plug-in vehicles to gradually change and restore the rolling stock in the Republic of Croatia. This also affects the reduction of traffic emissions as well as road safety. We will not stop there to make the whole system fairer and the regulation on special environmental benefits for motor vehicles where the criteria for payment and annual fees will be much fairer. It will depend on emissions or on the use of the vehicle itself, not on the way it has been so far. So we encourage the restoration of the rolling stock and each kuna of extra budget money, so the Environment Fund actually encourages the reduction of emissions, but also contributes to charging and the state budget through excise duties, VAT, and encourages dead vehicle trading in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77904	The obvious of a respected representative. Nothing. Thank you very much. We're going to the 10th parliamentary issue today, Honored Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77905	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The law on ownership and other real rights enables citizens of the 27 EU Member States to buy and acquire property rights in the Republic of Croatia under the same conditions as Croatian citizens without legal barriers. For foreign citizens outside the EU as well as citizens of former SFRY republics, they remain in force of legal and administrative obstacles to the acquisition of ownership rights. For them, the existence of conditions of reciprocity between the Republic of Croatia and the state whose nationals and procedures are to comply with the consent of the Ministry of Justice. All this further makes it more difficult to slow down and burden this legal framework and such long-term procedures for the purchase of the apartment and acquisition of ownership rights for former tenants who do not have Croatian citizenship but are permanently resident foreigners in the Republic of Croatia since they have lived in it for decades. Therefore, those in the Republic of Croatia have obtained pensions and worked in the Republic of Croatia, acquired assets and thus contributed to the Republic of Croatia, paid all obligations towards the Republic of Croatia still live in the Republic of Croatia, but due to the provisions of the Law on Citizenship, they are still treated as foreigners or permanent foreigners. So regardless of what they live in the Republic of Croatia and get the right to housing Because of this legal framework, they do not have the opportunity to buy apartments because they have to get the ministry's opinion. [[Joseph Leko: Ask a question, Your Honor.]] Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77906	Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77907	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, so there are a few questions I'm going to answer about ownership. So the principle of reciprocity that we know is one institute leaving in almost all EU countries, the ministry has launched a procedure for amending the law. The law showed the need to change some other things so that it goes slower than we hoped, but that's the thing that's going to be very soon solved. We consider it an absurd situation where we foreign citizens call for investments in Croatia. We say you can buy over d.o.o. whatever you want and enter into a special legal and tax regime, but then the same person when he wants to buy 50 squares of real estate then we say he can't, but you can't do it as a natural person but you have to start d.o.o. in Croatia and buy it and it is a complete absurdity, almost no EU country knows it. So we started to change the law in this direction, in the meantime what we do as a ministry we are reviewing in relation to each particular state status to see how they acquire Croatian because the basic thing we insist on is that Croatian citizens in that country can acquire the same thing as citizens of that country, and not as they can in Croatia, so there is one important difference. So, we're going to be revising against every particular country. Now we're doing it in relation to the Russian Federation, so that's where we're going to change this principle and just run two parallel procedures. One amendment to the law that will solve it globally, and the other is based on what you say about consent, we are revising our position in relation to each particular country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77908	It's an indication of the esteemed representative, Milorad Popovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77909	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank Mr. Minister for your response and we understand the legal framework that we have as a member of the EU, but we do not understand that the situation is tolerated, that practice is tolerated for people who are de facto Croatian citizens, who have not lost what they have lost and who have patiently waited for years to compensate for them in any way. And now they are tolerated as someone who has not been in Croatia or been a tourist, and those who are not tourists, who live, who work, who have children, who have their friends and their property here or who have acquired the right to do so, are now being treated in the same way and are being prevented from finally gaining that opportunity. Please find some way in the Ministry's decision-making system to recognise the specificity of this case in the ministry's procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77910	The 11th parliamentary issue of the respected representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77911	Thank you, Mr. President. I will ask the first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Ms. Vesni Pusic. So here's Mrs. Pusic, I'm curious, can you explain to the Croatian public why your reaction and the government's reaction to the impertinent and unfounded statement by a Montenegrin state official who said a few days ago that, I quote that "The coating never belonged to Croatia or Montenegro and that half of Prevlaka should belong to Montenegro.". So it's not one of the members of that horde of Montenegrins who robbed and burned in Konvali in the Croatian south of '91, '92, but rather the director of the State Real estate administration. So it's about a state official. You can imagine what kind of reaction would trigger a statement like Mladen Pejnović, which is in Croatia, let's say... To this state director from Montenegro and to say that Boka Kotarska Croatia is historically much more thorough than this statement that Prevlaka belongs to someone else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So Prevlaka belongs to Croatia and to Croatian citizens, so the Konavanas of the 15th century, since the 15th century. And after a statement like this from all Croatian media is missing your reaction, can you tell why?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77912	The first Deputy Prime Minister, Vesna Pusic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77913	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, so I think that you have the right to perhaps, in another country, a statement, say the head of the State Office for State Property Management, to cause a very heated reaction, however, would be a sign that the problems are not being solved but are being used for political production. At this point, we are working very intensively to address this problem and distinguish with Montenegro the foundation and protocol that discusses the temporary demarcation and if possible reach any bilateral, either ultimately by arbitration to the definitive demarcation with Montenegro. We find it counterproductive and harmful under these conditions to compete with such bombistic and clearly unfounded statements as those quoted by you. We have exchanged several notes on the subject right now with Montenegro. And right now we're working on a proposal for a joint statement, so a draft of something that would be a joint demarcation statement. This statement that you have quoted is completely unfounded and based on this very temporary, therefore the protocol on the temporary demarcation of the foundation reached by the border regime agreement and the border crossings which are also based on that protocol on temporary demarcation. So this is what I think is an irresponsible statement, as is said in our note, but we think that at this point we need to work seriously on really solving the problem rather than exchanging bombistic statements because I think that they only harm and not actually contribute to the real problem we're working on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77914	Appreciation of the respected representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77915	Thank you. I think there should have been a reaction either by you or by one of your deputies to clearly hear the government's position, by the more the protocol is out of force, or he's out of deadline, it's been 10 years to reach a solution. So, in some ways, it can be interpreted as running out of time. On the other hand, you didn't now say unequivocally Prevlaka as a land part of the territory. Therefore, the land part of the territory and under that agreement is not disputed. He's not at all controversial under that agreement. What we need to talk about is the border at sea and what we insist on. And I hope you insist on those negotiations that you say you run even though we don't know you're leading them, but here we now hear you're leading them. I hope you insist on respecting international law and drawing the environment. Because it's the only fair solution because it's taking away, of course, these resources that were written about, oil, gas, in the Adriatic Sea, that draws the line at sea, which is identical to the solution. So we're going to look for a solution as it is in the Savudrian Wave, I hope, so it's going to be resolved according to international law. It's the middle line. I have to admit, for the first time, you said it was settled. None of the official authorities, local self-government, have any idea that this is being resolved either by the head of Konavle municipality or by the mayor of Dubrovnik-Neretva. I think it would be good for the Croatian public to finally find out what you're doing. I know you're having trouble preserving party people in your party, I know you're getting wasted, but don't ignore national interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77916	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ljiljana Cvetovic, a representative issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77917	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to refer the question to Minister Miranda Mrssic. Our citizens living in Croatia and are entitled to pension in the United States or Switzerland because of the lack of double taxation and social agreement agreements with those countries pay pension tax in the countries mentioned and in Croatia as well as compulsory health insurance in Croatia. They must do so regardless of their insurance training in Croatia, e.g. Ten years of being useless in this case. At the same time, Croatian citizens who receive pensions from Germany pay taxes in Germany according to the last place of residence and use health care for free of charge in Croatia. My question is when does the Ministry of Labour and the pension system intend to conclude a social agreement and a double taxation agreement with the United States and Switzerland to ensure that Croatian citizens are leveled in rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77918	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77919	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. The Republic of Croatia and the United States, unfortunately, have not signed an agreement on a social security system in the form of a bilateral agreement. On two occasions, the Republic of Croatia tried to conclude a contract with the United States of America in '99. And in 2002. Unfortunately, the American side did not show any interest in the conclusion of the contract, as there is a negligible number of American citizens who would receive a pension from Croatia and was then stressed on the American side that America has no interest in making such an agreement. In 2004, the US side found that Croatia meets technical requirements. In fact, the Croatian side then sent a letter of intent to the US government and this resulted in pensions being paid out in Croatia and paid out in America, so a system of reciprocity but without being able to add the internship in Croatia to the internship that took place in the United States and vice versa. Naturally, we will try again and the initiatives have set out towards the American side to sign such a bilateral agreement, especially now that we are in the European Union because other European Union countries have certain agreements with the American side. As far as Switzerland itself is concerned, we are in contact with their insurance companies and I hope that given that we are a member of the European Union very quickly and with Switzerland we will enter into negotiations on the conclusion of the agreement. As far as avoiding double taxation is concerned, it is the matter of the Ministry of Finance which I hope and in this respect will launch certain initiatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77920	Appreciation of the respected representative Ljiljana Cvetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77921	So I know that the initiative has to start from our side and I hope that we will speed up those processes, because the time to wait for these people is going down very hard. And I also think that those who, for example, paid taxes and contributions in Croatia for ten years should be exempt from paying at least health insurance when they do not receive a reasonable portion of their pension from the outside.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77922	Thank you very much. The 13th parliamentary issue, respected Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77923	Thank you very much, President of the Parliament, Prime Minister. You've recently said in your public statements that you're a bastard who has to tell the truth and that others don't have to. You also said a while ago, which is two and a half years ago, and for 8 years you have waited in opposition to coming to power in Croatia, that when you arrive, you will take responsibility for Croatia that you will not look at the former, that you will not look back at those who were incompetent by yours and that in the future you will be responsible for Croatia's leadership. I am interested in today's Honorable Prime Minister which is the real truth that you should tell if not the one that you, or we here in the Parliament today, but also Croatian citizens understand. What is the truth about Plan 21 on which you received election confidence from Croatian citizens? As we were yesterday, we know, bad. As we do today, we also know badly. I'm curious, Prime Minister, what will we do tomorrow? Is it true that yesterday before the start of the parliament of your government, Minister Grcic said that Croatia's GDP will grow within the next few months and that this country will be better. This is not a question with the intention that when the opposition asks the question that members of your government smile, and that we opponents ask what you will not answer because we are evil to you. We're interested in the Prime Minister's truth about Croatia's future.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77924	The answer to the parliamentary question is respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77925	You need an esteemed representative from me and you will hear the truth as well as my ministers and colleagues in the government, but not in principle a team up for the truth, although truth in politics is not always a guarantee of success and a path to power as you say we have been waiting for 8 years. We weren't waiting, we were working, and that period was much shorter. When I said we wouldn't look behind us, we mostly didn't look back. For example, in the case of unpaid taxes, where it has been reportedly arbitration in favour of some and to the harm of some others. Is that where we were wrong? I think so. I think that's where we covered the illegality and malignancy of a number of people who enjoyed high political support at the top of the government and the government of that time. But now some events have reminded us of it, and if there is no statute of limitations, there is no escape, and when the statute of limitations remains a moral responsibility for whomever it is. We're doing our job, it's not easy. Sometimes we slip, fall, get up, go to the end, until the end of the term of office for which the citizens gave us responsibility because we are not fugitives. If you want to engage or at least verbally join and give support as you sometimes do, but sometimes not because you have your own political reasons for what I understand. Join me if I don't mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77926	Appreciation of the respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77927	Prime Minister, it was a matter of what happened to Plan 21 two and a half years later today. To be honest with each other. I consider it personal, as well as the HDSSB club, that at the beginning of the term of office, you spoke the way it really is in Croatia and in view of the extent and extent of the crisis that has affected us. It would be easier for all of us to understand where we are today and what will happen to us tomorrow. We received a message from Brussels that we ourselves are responsible for the situation in our country and that Brussels cannot give us European funds or the optimism of the Minister of Greece better, if we in Croatia alone, or your Government cannot do so today. I think it would be fairer and better if we all looked ourselves in the eye, that at this point the national consensus on key issues for Croatia is needed, that we do not experience the fate of the European Greece, Spain, Italy and other countries that have gone badly. We've got indicators that we're headed that ladder as a new member. Instead of being optimistic today when we are only a little less than a year of EU members, we are pessimistic all. Elections are coming for the European Parliament, we don't know anything about this because we live badly in Croatia today. I call on you, Prime Minister, when the situation comes that we must all sit at the table, and it will come, that simply in Croatia, if it cannot be otherwise and better discussed the elections because it was done by your predecessor, the late Prime Minister Racan, when he saw that it was not going better, he sought salvation in some other solutions. Without any ill intentions, Prime Minister sometimes you yourself are responsible for causing some crises, not to you personally, but to the function of the one you act. You are not only the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia but all the citizens of Croatia, and us oppositions and authorities, and all those who are following this today on both the streets and who are not doing it. You are responsible for all of us until new elections come to Croatia. I call on you, Prime Minister, that some of the conflicts that occurred in some of the relations be forgotten in person and that you sit down and look together for salvation for Croatia because tomorrow looks like we won't get better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77928	Thank you very much. 14th parliamentary question, respected representative Joza Radosa.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77929	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I ask the question to the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, Mrs Vesni Pusic. In fact, I believe that the general membership of the Republic of Croatia is a gain, but in many individual EU policies there is only an opportunity. And if it's going to be a win, it's up to us. This concerns the use of the market of 500 million people and the use of European funds, and one of the occasions of the Republic of Croatia for affirmation is the accession and accession of neighbouring countries in which Croatia declared a mild and well-intentioned action, of course without concessions because a stable and orderly society in our neighbourhood is our Croatian interest. It is particularly an opportunity to affirm the Republic of Croatia as a constructive and member who contributes to the EU and is a particular area and the special interest of the Republic of Croatia is to use its membership to assist BiH in its accession to the EU. A country where we all agree that there are difficult internal difficulties and particularly difficult positions for Croats in the country. You have also encouraged the EU to have a special approach and help the country join, and I ask you, Madam Minister, what is the content of this proposal, what is its reception and what are the perspectives of the EU's special accession to Bosnia and Herzegovina?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77930	First Deputy Prime Minister Vesna Pusic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77931	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, therefore, Croatia contributes, namely its EU membership, we are open to the possibility of taking advantage of what is our added value. Our additional value is the possibility of contributing to the stabilisation of Southeast Europe or the Western Balkans, so this region where we are. We are certainly not some great world power but in this region we have both influence and knowledge and experience such as, of course, the geographical fact that Croatia belongs to both the Mediterranean swimming pool and Central Europe and the Western Balkans or Southeast Europe. However, in these other regions there are large countries that play a particular role significant in European proportions. In Southeast Europe, however, Croatia is the largest member of the EU with a direct interest in stabilising this part of Europe, experience, knowledge and finally with BiH over 1000km of borders. Since we believe that the whole process of approaching the EU is something that contributes to building the institutions of the state, stabilising so that if you want to change the agenda, changing the agenda of a political debate and political work of a country and our initiative has gone towards achieving two goals. It is one thing to keep that topic on the agenda, which in the conditions of the eastern and southern neighbourhood, so Ukraine and Syria alone is not in itself understandable to begin with. Another attempt is to develop a model of BiH's negotiation and accession to the European Union, which would, from defining certain objectives as a prerequisite for the process to begin at all and turn the preconditions into an integral part of a larger framework for BiH's accession to the European Union. The motive for this is the assumption that this is a desirable goal, so it motivates not only less formal institutions, but certainly BiH's society motivates that direction. On the other hand, meeting and defining the requirements and criteria that form an integral part of the negotiations improves the status of everyone in BiH, and through this and what is our special obligation for the Croats in BiH, but we believe that in BiH that has a poor functioning, which has no difficulty, which does not go towards the EU and which does not have that clear goal will be worse for all and for the Croats too, it must be better for BiH. That's the reason for our initiative. On the other hand, the real success of the initiative will be the Croatian initiative, the EU initiative. And that's what we're working on right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77932	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the esteemed representative, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77933	I thank Madam Minister for the quality of the response and, of course, I call on the Ministry and the Government to continue on this, for Croatia and for the European Union, a very useful initiative. And since you mentioned Southeastern Europe and our wider region, this is a special, second topic, of course, that Bosnia and Herzegovina is our special Croatian interest because of what you've been talking about, but the integration of the remaining five countries of that area is of particular interest to Croatia because we know the most about these countries and we have the most interest in these countries. We may be able to contribute much to the trade agreement between the European Union and the United States, perhaps we cannot contribute to the resolution of the crisis in Ukraine but we can give a great deal in the process of integration of neighbouring countries. It is, of course, an opportunity for the European Union to show strength that it can solve problems and issues in its own backyard. Because all these countries are actually within the European Union geographically, and of course they should be real. So I call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia and you, Madam Minister, to continue with such and similar initiatives as well as with regard to the integration of all the remaining countries into the European Union in order to resolve their interstate and large internal constitutional and status issues of these countries, in order to ultimately get an area of peace, stability, progress and good cooperation because it is a Croatian national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77934	Thank you too, dear colleague. The 15th parliamentary issue, honourable representative Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77935	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, I will ask my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mrs. Milanki Opacic. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, a few days ago, the start of the process of amending the Institute's help in the home for older people was completed. Will this change lead to a significant change in the number of rights users, and have you made an audit of existing rights, i.e. an analysis of the situation on the ground? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77936	Answering the parliamentary question, Deputy Prime Minister respected Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77937	Thank you, Mr. President. So, that 01.05 was the deadline, but unfortunately one part didn't, the system didn't do the job. Therefore, primarily those who have been service providers so far, who have not yet brought the list of users to the social care centre in some areas so that the centre can issue new solutions and verify the data. I would like to say that the Institute also helped in the house a good institute and it is a good service, but it should have been put under some control mechanisms because it has now proved to be only paying unfortunately for years of people who have either been in homes for older and powerless, people who have died while still being on the list of service users, people who care about their children and finally people who have signed the minutes themselves at the centre that they need not and have never received it. So, there were a lot of problems. A good institute, a good service but unfortunately without control mechanisms that at that point actually turns into something that I don't think anyone wants, because it's 55 million kuna from the state budget. At this point, we still have one piece of territory and population that is not covered by solutions. I, and at this point, call on those in charge of doing their job because I see that the newspapers show great concern for people of older age who will eventually lose that service in one period, so that their concerns actually point to them to start and create the job they need. What was our goal is to cover Croatia equally and evenly. And at this point, that's exactly what's happening. For the first time, we have the first contract in Međimurje County that has never been covered by this programme and we have 20 new cities and municipalities with which we have concluded a contract, which means that there were users who needed service and help in the house, but so far they have not received it because obviously someone in local self-government had not taken care of their older citizens. So here, this is just about putting a good program into certain criteria and it's about being able to cover the old age with the existing money that hasn't been covered so far. We, just to say, finally did one survey among residents over 65 years old, about 1700 of them, where more than 70% said they wanted to grow old in their own home. It just confirms that this program was good, that it needs to be maintained, that it needs to be worked on and that it needs to be expanded because what citizens want, we're actually here to provide them with that kind of service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77938	Appreciation of the respected representative Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77939	Thank you very much. I'm pleased with your extensive response.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77940	The 16th parliamentary issue of Honored Representative Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77941	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Justice Mr Orsat Milenić. And the question concerns a subject on which we have recently had a lot of opportunities to listen, or a criminal act of disgrace. As we know recently, there has been a great debate over this crime, about its legal description, but above all about its application in practice, or about the interpretations that our judiciary and our courts give to this institute. The interpretation they resorted to in my court raises questions and freedom of speech in the Republic of Croatia. So my question is very brief for you, Mr. Minister. And the question is, what do you think of this institute and what do you make that institute change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77942	Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77943	Thank you very much, Mr. President and Mr. Representative. So, first of all, I think it's basically a bad practice and that we should avoid it, if we are based on a verdict that is inadmissible, we start getting into the controversy of any institute, about this and any other. There is simply a process, courts are making certain solutions, but there are higher courts that correct them, and it usually needs to pass for some time to see what effects they are. However, here and that is why I can speak much easier about it, because we have initiated before the task force the examination of this institute long before and before this verdict. So, the task force got the assignment last year to consider it, why? Because we adopted a Swiss model, we copied it, which, both in Switzerland and in application, according to the information we have, raises certain doubts, under 1. Under 2, when any of us take it to read it, you need to read it several times to actually figure out what to say. That's not how the law should look, the law should be clear, not just to a lawyer, but to every citizen. So these are some formal reasons why we will consider and change. Indeed, on the one hand, the initiative that crimes against honor and respect are deleted and no longer provided for by criminal law protection, I think it's wrong and we won't go in that direction. We think that a citizen who lives peacefully and accused of stealing something must have protection and criminal justice. So, it should stay. The libel, as it's established by the new system, so knowingly speaking the truth, so you know that what you're saying isn't true, and yet you're saying it, it needs to be sanctioned. Insult, also in certain cases. Now we come to this environment, to shame, so it's someone, it's an act, it's an act of falseness where you actually agree that you might have fabricated the truth, and with it you're hurting someone else, and there's a question of criminal legal protection. What we think is that she should stay like that, but we're going to... a whole series of releases, so excluding illegality so that the criminal law in any way is used exclusively to limit not only the press business, not just the free public words, but also in the works of art, in criticism and so on. So we will enter the reason for the illegality, the exclusion of illegality in criminal acts of disgrace and insult. In this way we will strike a balance between these two values, on the one hand, it means to protect honor and reputation and to ensure that an individual cannot be insulted, shamed, which is sometimes much more difficult than a physical attack and physical injury, but we will separate one segment from that because we will put a high standard on him, so that he can process himself and direct him more towards civil law protection and towards actually solving problems in civil proceedings, not in criminal proceedings. Here, that's one direction, I expect that we will because some others will be amended and because of some directives, etc., during May we will go public, in early June with the concept. There will be a public debate, we've already started talking about it, everyone will have a chance to say what they think, so the law will be in the Parliament for sure in the next two months. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77944	Thank you, Minister. It's an indication of a respected representative named Peja Grbin. There isn't. Thank you, Your Honor. The 17th parliamentary issue of Honored Representative Dinka Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77945	My question is addressed to the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. It is known that while among the smaller countries in the world, Croatia is in a high 4th place when it comes to regional development, the differences in regional development within the EU countries. One of the many, but also the most important EU policies is the so-called regional policy, i.e. a cohesion policy that is often referred to as a solidarity policy, whose primary purpose and purpose is thus to provide funds to reduce the difference between the development of individual regions of EU member states. With Croatia's entry into the EU, Slavonia and Baranja as the most underdeveloped region rightly expected it, however, I will remind you of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which you led, from August 2012, to the unfortunate division of the two statistical regions, to the continental and Adriatic regions that Slavonia and Baranja were added to rich Zagreb and thus artificially through the night became richer and more developed. That's when you used one sentence to get mean messages. Unfortunately, if it hadn't been for ominous messages we could see, here's from this decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 24.04, a few weeks ago where the level of regional state support within Croatia for Slavonia and Baranja has fallen because we are in 2 statistical regions with 50% of what we belonged to only 25%. So a better example than that is hardly necessary to indicate how much damage Slavonia and Baranja are in this regard. And that's why my question to you, Mr. President, is, did you realize that the wrong decision was made? Do you intend to change that decision and do it in accordance with... goals...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77946	Thank you very much. Thank you. Answering the parliamentary question, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77947	Dear fellow MP, what bothers me the most is not with you, but in the state of things, and what always bothers me until it changes is data that northern, or continental Croatia is at the level of 61.5 average of EU development, and the Adriatic region, so the second region to 60% and as a citizen and Croats will always bother me and I will be unhappy, and even unhappy until it rises to 100% or at least 80%. But these regional differences are normal. In the United States, between the richest and poorest states, the difference is even greater, with the poorest relatively rich there, but not as rich as Germany. But let's get back to our story. Fortunately, what you said is mostly not true and it's important that it's not true, and I'm going to tell you why because the first fall in the percentages of state support isn't even close to what you said. One percent refers to large businesses, one to medium, one to small, and the difference is summa summarum in 10% points that, in this division, sort of favour the Adriatic region. However, we tried to jump to that, and we're going to jump in a way that we put the government's special conclusion in the same position as all the county, and you're always talking about your county which is normal to me, so let's get that straight. So both your county and all those that according to certain criteria of underdevelopment or less developed will fit in practically this way will be in the same position. What if it's not so bad in itself, so is the level of support 25% of the maximum the state can give or 35%? In the eye, however, this only means that if the highest level of support is lower, and this means that more businesses can benefit from it. But in this particular conclusion, we've practically neutralized it. So nothing, but nothing has changed and nothing bad has happened for Slavonia and Baranja. Companies, depending on size, are small, medium or large, have the right from 55% to 35% of the support totalling some gross investment. That's not bad at all. And I'm asking you to deny what I said, and what I said was just a few dry figures and nothing more than that. So it's not bad at all, the division of Croatia into two statistical regions is good and I think it's a good solution. They are personally developed, Slavonia and Baranja is in a difficult situation than some other county, but nothing if good is done will escape it and no project like the Osijek Water Supply System project of 70 million euros will escape it if we are all ready to work and prepare projects. Everything depends on you and us, therefore, on the state and on Slavonia and Baranja and Međimurje, all right. These are your numbers, practically nothing changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77948	Appreciation of Honorable Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77949	... I choose words, I will try really to choose words and be extremely polite, but it's hard for me to resist when someone tries someone's common sense, and I have a healthy mind, like many others to make fun of. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I will not use this towards you, Mr. President, because you have been elected Prime Minister not by my will but by the will of most citizens. But Mr. President, to say that 25 and 35% is also no longer a question of social sensitivity but social intelligence. So the moves you're making are not just socially insensitive but socially not intelligent. To claim that it is the same if every entrepreneur who comes to Slavonia and Baranja will receive 25 or 35% support so I really don't know which fool would have to go to our Levanska varoš, not in Istria where they will get 35% support for every investment by the state compared to 25%. Well, you don't have to be particularly smart around here. It's true, sir, I kept my mouth shut while you were talking. You say the numbers deny, I try the numbers. So the EU guidelines recently adopted say that we remained, these are figures, that's true, that Slavonia and Baranja are outside the continental statistical region as an independent region would have the right to 50% state support. By being in the continental statistical region, we have the right to 25%, these are numbers, that's true, and that should be acknowledged. We invite you to change your bad decision, and you... make a bad decision. That's not good, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77950	Thank you very much. 18th parliamentary question and respected representative Đuro Popiac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77951	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I ask my question to the Minister of Economy, Mr. Vrdoljak. So about a month ago about 18.4. The media announced your statement that in the following year the gas for Croatian citizens will be cheaped by me as of 1.4.2015, all thanks to how you declared irresponsible INA management behaviour. It should have been the result of the sale of 200 million cubic metres of gas, which was owned by INA's natural gas company which was stored and still stored in the warehouse around today, and this gas government took away the INA and at a very dubious auction at 4 times the price sold to HEP somewhere around 100 million cubic metres, it seems to me that the MET Company, owned by the Hungarian MOL, is about 60 million cubics and the Company seems to me to be the first gas company from Vukovar about 40 million cubic metres, causing damage to hundreds of millions of kunas of INAs. I ask you how you intend to maintain your and implement your promise of gas burning for citizens next year, based on those 200 million cubic metres of INA gas seized, given that the consumption of gas in Croatia is about 800 million cubic metres, a total of about 3 billion cubic metres, and why this gas is not cheap today, given that the government is making all sorts of decisions and the government can make a decision on the new price of gas today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77952	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister, Ivan Vrdoljak, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77953	My dear representative, the incredible hourly information of the quantity, the strange information has now come. So, take away the gas, you're aware of the fact that you have a burden of listing... , agreement annex and everyone who's been there because you've signed it and now it's part of the final line of court proceedings but you're very lucky I want it here, but let's let it go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there is a situation, 5 years of natural gas achieves losses and it provides supply to Croatian citizens of gas. The government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Economy are in charge of the first objective of the third energy package is safe delivery, security of gas supply to citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In the year 1.4.2013, the end of the 2009 contract and all obligations that were held in 2009 were purchased by the warehouse, prices and we must then decide who is to trust the Croatian government to secure the delivery in the next period, will not go into bankruptcy, ensure gas delivery to Croatian citizens. And we conclude that some company that's been doing minuses for five years, you know that, very well, natural gas in billions of kunas, that maybe it's not a good solution and we're transferring it to, today, the only possible regulatory one, because we're afraid of the security of the supply of citizens and that's Croatia's electricity that has knowledge, finance in the ultimate line of logistics that they can withstand one and a French coup at the beginning of several hundred million kunas and regulation we define that they are providing a portion of the rental of the warehouse. Because the warehouse must primarily ensure a secure supply of the household. Our citizens can't run out of gas during the winter. At the same time when it is decided that Croatia's electricity industry must not earn money on this because it is a regulated activity. Half of Europe, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Denmark, France regulates prices both for industry and for citizens. Of course, there are European countries that have released everything, and the whole system is deregulated, such as Germany and Italy. We decided to regulate citizens without any gain, not to regulate industry, to leave them on the market. And then there's a moment that I didn't know was happening at all and that's the rest of the warehouse going to some contest, a public call lease. And at that moment, my INA colleagues are completely irresponsiblely appearing at that contest, I guess, believing that this was their smart show, so obviously it turned out wrong. And they don't hire a warehouse in a professional way they don't appear in that tender, that public call, I don't know this procedure the PSP does and complain that they didn't have full information at the same time, MOL Energy Tradeing is renting a piece of the warehouse that Mr. Hernadi's nephew runs, has information that INA colleagues don't have and is renting a warehouse. And finally the result, INA comes up with cheaper gas, HEP comes up with the cheaper gas that we need and we want to, and we'll do it, but by law, not how you talk, and that means the regulatory period when it comes out, all profits can't exist. This means that if the profit is achieved in this year, the price of gas will be reduced. I was saying it was possible. But the rest of the profits and the damage to INA and their unserious positioning at the contest earned MOL Energy Trading unfortunately. So no one took it away, I said I'd call for the responsibility of those who may have wrongly decided in INA to perform at the warehouse. First objective of secure supply, second objective, lower price of this regulation, third objective Respect for the third energy package is the first condition of secure supply, we have fulfilled all of this, unfortunately some have wrongly decided in a company that we are 44% owners. [[Intruder: Finish the Honored Ministers.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77954	Thank you. It's an indication of the Đura Popiè's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77955	Thank you very much. I'm not happy with the responsible Mr. Minister because you didn't give it up. I asked you how you intend to fulfill your promise that for Croatian citizens next year it will be cheaper gas. Since Croatia has bought only 100 million cc's of gas per 60 lp and today's gas price is at a purchase price, so over 2 kuna, as you intend to keep your promise, you did not answer that. Secondly, the INA, and then natural gas for more than 40 years, was a successful and completely reliable supply of Croatian citizens, Croatian society, Croatian gas industry. What makes you right and the idea of saying that you are no longer able to do it but you have transferred it to a Croatian power company that has never done it before. That's the question. On what basis did you estimate that this was possible and that HEP would do better? On the basis of which 60 million cc's sold to the Hungarian company for 60 lbs of INA's gas bought by I don't know, I'm not going to speak at what price and why don't you do it today. So you have three decisions that you have made in the meantime harmful decisions for the entire security of the gas business and the supply of the Croatian gas market. So you regulated the price at which INA must sell HEP gas from its production, so you regulated that HEP will be a monopoliest in the coming years and that after we derivated the gas market. So, a series of adverse decisions with either, we don't actually know which one is essentially the goal. And today here you have stated that you are not sure that the company that worked and invented gas in Croatia for 40 years to say that it is no longer a reliable partner that will definitely deliver gas to Croatian citizens and Croatian industry. That's scandalous, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77956	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The 19th parliamentary issue and respected representative Lidija Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77957	I thank you, Mr. President. I would like to refer the question to the Minister of Science, Education and Sports Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Your ministry's respected ministers have come up with criteria for an additional score when entering high school. Thus, another foreign language, sports competition, or music school will no longer be fought. As a result, numerous criticisms have arisen in public, some bitter parents sent you open letters through the media. So can you tell us why the ministry doesn't recognize the extra points? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77958	Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77959	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I thank Dr. Bagaric for this question, it is very current. These days, it is likely that eight - grade students along with their parents are experiencing the stress they choose from school because their future depends greatly on it. The enrolment in our high schools for the last 14 years has been without major changes. According to the law, a new decision had to be made each year on the elements of the criteria for enrolment four months before school began. Sometime since 2000, additional activities have been fought outside the regular course in terms of attending music schools, dance schools, categorized athletes. The first major change occurred when we came to the ministry when we decided that criteria, that the decision was being prepared by professional people so that a committee was formed in which the representatives of teachers, directors, associations of directors, trade unions, and they prepared a text that the ministry then wanted to see any public opinion referred to a public debate that had never happened. Two groups of views were immediately crystallized in the public debate. One group that felt that the additional attendance of music, dance schools, sports could not be the reason for the additional score. And another group that opposed it. The majority in the public debate was to allow for additional points in the attendance of music, dance schools and categorized athletes. What has largely enabled us to analyze the records and conduct electronic enrolments for the first time since last year because we received exceptional quality data. And based on that data, we've seen some kind of illogicality. So, of the total number of students enrolled in the first grade of high school, that's 46854. As many as 70% of them got an extra point. That's 33,000 students. The largest number that has received additional points refers to the score of another foreign language by 50% of students, which immediately creates a dilemma whether it should be an additional point if more than 50 students get it. As for some other controversial categories, I have to say that they were actually minor. 0.48% of students received extra points for dance school, 0.39% for classical language, categorized athletes were only 1%. However, part of the parents who were not satisfied with the fact that students attending music or dance schools or categorised athletes received additional points and filed a constitutional suit to the Constitutional Court. In this year's decision, we decided to listen to a full public debate, but at the same time to request the opinion of the Advocate's Office and the recommendations of the Constitutional Court. The counseling policies for children are clear – make education available to every child, ban any child from being placed in an unfavourable position. They warned us that some of the contents were not equally available to their children. We need to meet the assumptions for achieving equal opportunities for children and all content that will decide on enrolment in school must be equally accessible and accessible to their children. At the same time, the Constitutional Court points out that it is necessary to prevent candidates from enroling in high school in a subordinate position under any basis that is not related to the personal capacity of the accessor, i.e. the efforts and success of pupils in primary school, not material and economic preconditions, are key criteria for enrolment in high school. Accordingly, in accordance with this opinion, the Office of the Advocates for Children and the Constitutional Court adopted new elements and criteria which, firstly, place knowledge as the only key element, as the primary element of evaluation, and the results achieved in the knowledge contests, respecting the difficult social and economic conditions that could affect student success. Therefore, if we want Croatia to be a society of equal opportunities for all, then at the moment of one key decision for each child in high school we must respect that everyone has equal access enrollment in high school. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] And that's why this decision was made in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77960	The obvious? No, I don't. Let's move on. The 20th parliamentary issue of the respected representative Josipa Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77961	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the honourable members of the government. I will refer my question to Minister Zeljko Jovanovic. Mr. Minister, two and a half years of your term, everyone wants you to leave, everyone wants you gone. They say we'll take a break, students, students, parents, athletes, teachers. You said yourself you'd leave, twice if you don't have the support of the citizens and if you're getting paid to the professors, teachers. Citizens don't trust you, wages are cut and you're still here. You don't keep your word, but that's why no one cares about your corn politics anymore, and 25.5. citizens will remind you nicely. They'll tell you you failed us, you must leave, gentlemen. But since those weren't the reasons for your resignation, you surprised us again. In January of last 2013 you applied for the Faculty of Medicine in Osijek for the workplace at Talasotherapy in Opatija. Look at that alchemy. The contest is announced in Slavonia's Voice for the workplace in Opatija. One single application, head and beard, Zeljko Jovanovic, minister of science, education and sports. They weren't surprised, but they chose you, gave you a job, frozen it after a year and a half when the story came to the public, the pain, the silence. Such a fusse procedure without the excellence you call upon has always made you a compromised public figure without the necessary authority to run the ministry. I don't know if that's why Zoran Milanovic stood before you, looked you in the eye and asked Zeljko if it was true. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Jovanovic, why did you suddenly give up this job? Will you resign because it is a shameful and unremembered move by the minister, an unworthy minister of science, education and sports to fit the principle of your prime minister, we must work clean, impeccably not only at the level of the impression, but at the level of facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77962	Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77963	Thank you very much. I'm thrilled with your question. Unfortunately, four minutes won't be enough for me to answer, so I'll try to be shorter. But I'm going to write to you all the important facts about this question, which is actually completely wrong and incorrect. For starters, I didn't answer for a job in Talasotherapy. It's completely misread and transmitted. I reported in accordance with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, in accordance with the rules on the prevention of conflicts of interest, in accordance with the Ethical Code, and in accordance with the university autonomy at which I had the right to report to all applicable documents and regulations, and I did nothing illegal, unethical, incorrect and contrary to what seemed before and during the ministers who were from your party. Let's start with Jura Radic, Branko Yeren, Nikola Dužinski, Dragutin Primorac or Vladimir Strugar. So, the only thing an official can do in his term of office can do is do science-teaching work, and he can even get a fee for it that I didn't do. In that Department of Pharmacology of the Faculty of Medicine in Osijek, I have been engaged since 2007, and I was elected as a doctor in 2010, so before I became a minister. So, it's all clear here, it's all clear here. And of course the prime minister called me and asked me to explain to him what it was, after I explained to him he was pleased with my answer. As far as the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports are concerned, you are in great error because my going to the field shows great satisfaction to all those who are in the hearts of science, education and sports. Of course, you're wrong, the only ones whose salaries have grown in these difficult times and who, despite the shorts of Appendix 4, 8 and 10, will have increased salaries of as much as 65% of them are teachers in primary and secondary schools. Therefore, if we look at the entire sector from pre-school education, through primary and secondary schools to higher education and science, then in this 2.5 year that I have increased the quality of education and science systems, the availability of quality education has increased, more order has been introduced and is available rationally by budget means. The most successful ministry in withdrawing European funds is the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. The number of scholarships for students at Croatian universities has been increased twice, ensuring that all students in Croatia have the same chance of completing the highest quality education. The sport introduced a sports inspection that had already found a whole series of wrong decisions that had been made and made sure that the famous swamp was much smaller in the coming period than it was before. Therefore, if I look at my 2.5-year work so far, I can say that the crown of this work will soon be in this assembly where I expect you to finally show that a social consensus can be reached in Croatia on one key topic, which is education, science and technology in which I believe you will professionally, mertically or politically discuss the future of education, science and technology in Croatia because for the first time on your bench you will get a strategy to develop education, science and technology that will ensure that education and science in Croatia are the ones that will ensure that Croatia comes out of the crisis much faster than we would have come out of such a strategy. I'll deliver everything else to you in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77964	Appreciation of the esteemed representative, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77965	Thank you very much. Well, the Honorable Ministers, you've answered everything just not to ask why you gave up if everything is so clean by law and everyone else has done it. Yeah, you didn't get that, all right. We leave that out for the public why you gave up when everything's so clean. But I'll tell you my opinion, this to me at the level of impression and fact looks like a set-up match. No matter what you say. 'Cause what kind of job is this? What kind of job is this? You get a candidate and you leave him all the time he wants to work for? So then we freeze 2,000 jobs in HZ Cargo, so when there's money, when it's all done, people come to work. What kind of behavior is that? You did it even though you knew that as a state official you had the right after you'd done your duty, 12 months to have a salary. Your government has introduced news that you can go back where you came from, but you're still looking for a spare spot. And you did it at a time when there were 380 thousand unemployed on the Stock Exchange, many of whom did not get first job rights for the first time, they did not get the right. And you did it, you wanted two jobs. And if that's not a question to you, it's not a question to you even when you knew that it was your colleague for a similar e-mail procedure where she asked to protect a colleague I don't know or a colleague party at work. You did it again. And you don't see anything controversial here. Look, as far as I'm concerned, you can still do what you're doing, even though after this SDP democracy has offered us no good in the Republic of Croatia. Well, it happens to us that the mayor is in custody running the county. Now we have the fact that once jobs are frozen, internal conflicts are frozen until the elections are over. What is that, a voter scam? I think, Mr. Minister, if you want to keep to a high level of your moral values, it would be good to resign because everything after that, it's hard for you to be the authority of anyone in the education system with such an act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77966	Thank you very much. For the first half, another parliamentary issue by the respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77967	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Economy, Mr Ivan Vrdoljak, which refers to a significant company in the Republic of Croatia, it is INA. I wonder what status and state of negotiations with MOL are related to INA, and how will the Government of the Republic of Croatia protect its interests? Since the INA in the last five years has seen a decline in production, sales decline, decline in investment? This is what I would ask Mr. Minister to answer in what way will the Republic of Croatia in negotiations protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77968	Thank you very much. Answer to the parliamentary question, Honored Minister Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77969	Thank you, Your Honor. Agent, maybe in a few seconds, it's okay to just say the facts. The fact is that our MOL colleagues, our strategic partners, have today the ability to manage INA in a 100% ratio. So all the decisions are made with them, and our wish has been to change something and to strategically evaluate what has been done. As a 44-percent owner, the state believes that the unsustainable situation is that we cannot influence decisions within the company, but we also have a first-degree verdict that we want and we need to put on the table and talk about it even though it is first-degree, which claims that this contract which is now managed is the cornerstone of the corrupt part, and we need to find a new shareholder contract. Unfortunately, colleagues from the MOL for 9 months have avoided proposing a new governance model, a shareholder contract, and thus make it difficult to negotiate. Why? Because they're running the company today. We are the ones who want to speed up and speed up, the sooner we agree, the sooner we enter the company, this is their interest to stall it and do it well. Quick results. I need to inform the Croatian Parliament about what the results are in the last 5 years and these are the facts. And this is that the INA reserves since 2009 have been reduced by 23%, that production has fallen by 30%, that oil processing in our refineries has fallen by 26%, the INA share in the wholesale market in the Republic of Croatia has dropped by 19% and the INA retail market in the Republic of Croatia has dropped by 17%. What is particularly worrying is that in 2009, INA invested $4.4 billion in kuna, 2012 970 million. So 3.5 billion kuna less investment than the company apparently Mr. Poppie knows well, we have 3.5 billion kunas from 2009 to 2012. HEP, INA, HEP, PLINACRO, ANAF, HAC, and even say Croatian forests, all together that all the money they have spent cannot compensate for what INA has reduced in the last 4 years. Despite Croatia’s direct conduct of negotiations during, and discreetly throughout this whole process, we have seen interviews by their management presidents, we have seen websites informing the public, affecting public change. Mr Hernandi, who is a de facto fugitive in front of the Croatian judiciary today, is allowed to give interviews, I am asked to remain silent all the time. I kept my mouth shut until there was paper, numbers, analysis. Now I'm looking for the truth about who's responsible for that crash, and of course we're going to make it public. Documentation is our basis for conducting arbitration proceedings and it isn't, and it's a secret of course, but this data would love to be denied, since it's the basis of thousands of documents, we won't exploit it in public, but the basic information I will personally communicate with the public. And regardless of this, we see today that the relationship to the Croatian government, colleagues from the MOL and their spokesman say this way: "Absolutely, the minister is lying." It is an attack on the Croatian government and on the minister, on the institution. And there's nothing, there's no price and no blow that we have to pay to keep and preserve our national interest. In the end, I will only quote our Prime Minister Orban's colleague, who said: "MOL is the feather of the Hungarian industry.", who said: "How did MOL, how proud of MOL, appreciate it and will, if necessary, protect it and will always respond if anyone questions the integrity of MOL employees." My statement, short, INA is a feather of the Croatian industry, we are proud of the INA, we appreciate it, if necessary we will protect it and we will always answer if anyone questions the integrity of INA employees [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] And there's no problem, if we say the same thing as a colleague from Hungary. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] And you will receive a written reply from your colleague Popioč to the previous question, so we will seriously discuss it, which is your interest to disinform the Croatian public in the gas business that you have destroyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77970	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Appreciation of the esteemed representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77971	Here, I express my satisfaction and give full support to both the Ministry and the Government for the preservation of national interests in the Croatian economy's penitentiary in the INA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77972	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have done twenty-one questions with this, twenty questions remain with the MPs. Well, we'll take the apartment now. At 12 o'clock, we move on, 12 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77973	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. It's 22nd question and Honorable representative Martina Dalic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77974	Mr. Vice President, I can hardly ask a question because there's no one I can ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77975	I'm asking the ministers to come to the hall. We said it was a 12 o'clock sequel. Ask you a question, the prime minister is here, he will answer instead of the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77976	Well, I wouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77977	Mrs. Dalic, I gave you a chance to ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77978	Mr. Vice President, there is no person who has been announced to ask the question We announce to whom we ask the question. [[Intruder Stazic: Don't shout.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77979	Don't yell. It's, first of all, rude. Second, Mrs. Dalic. You've been called to ask a representative question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77980	Mr. Vice President, in the process of asking questions, a member of the government is announced, whose question is asked, and he and I know that we are now in order. There's no Deputy Prime Minister, and you're bound to secure his presence.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77981	Could not close temporary folder: %s It's 12.02 o'clock. [[Intruder Dalic: Excellent.]] CONTINUATION AFTER CASE 12.04 HOURS 22nd parliamentary question and respected representative Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77983	Thank you very much. My question was addressed to Mr. Vice-President of the Greek Government. You, Mr. Greek, may have said about a dozen days that there are no, I will try to remember that there is no European Commission that the Croatian economy will grow. In a certain way, this statement of your great number of culprits for the current situation and failures of the government, which are usually referred to as the former government by entrepreneurs, and by experts, has also joined the European Commission. My question is, I would ask you to explain how and how this is the European Commission, and thus the EU, which is responsible for the fact that the Croatian economy is not recovering? I don't see the European Commission, I see the government, and besides that, the government that wasn't here a few minutes ago, so I almost ran out of opportunity to ask you this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77984	Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77985	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I thank you especially for this question. So the persistent, persistent attempt to pass the wrong statements actually created this impression that you're talking about, so I understand your question and I thank you for the question that I really want to answer that very precisely. So at no time would I allow myself to allow anyone outside of our institutions, Croatian institutions at any level and in public and private situations that are responsible for the situation in Croatia and it must be clear to everyone. Why? It works for the reputation of the Republic of Croatia and for the fact that we have an extraordinary situation with the European Commission and because of the fact that next week, for example, We're going to... to sell Eurobonds and because of the fact that we want to be there in some way respectable with everything we're going to present in that story. I think that I would say many here for daily political reasons serve all kinds of means, I would say inappropriate at least and thus question the reputation of the Republic of Croatia. And now about what I said and how just before my colleague Goran Maric said by sticking to the principles of the profession he's been doing here all my life I'm going to repeat again, the same thing I said here I have a quoted statement to the press and at a press conference a few days ago. So all economic indicators in the first quarter of this year testify that something positive is happening in Croatia, whether I want to admit it or not, but that's the fact, so that's statistics, that's what our institutions gave. The Economic Institute says the first quarter was good we're going in the right direction, something's going on. My intervention was next, in the first quarter of public spending in Croatia increased 4.1%) that is not something we expected but it happened because we financed some of the costs speedily, better said we paid off certain subsidies speedily to our farmers and part of the shipbuilding in the part in which the state participates in restructuring. And what's my thesis next? If we want to respect the commitment of fiscal consolidation, which means a cut of 2.3% of GDP in terms of the deficit reduction, the fact is that in the remaining three quarters of public spending can no longer grow, and that must be clear to us all. So if we want to maintain the parameters, if we want to keep the plan, then public spending won't grow. I have said this is part of the excessive deficit procedure and the fact is that such a restriction will limit the further potential of GDP growth in this year on the side of public spending contributions and it is very clean and clear and I will repeat it in every situation because it is simply true. That's a fact. We need to understand macroeconomic, we need to understand the structure of GDP in order to understand such thesis, and that's it. There's nothing to add or take away. Therefore, I have not questioned the European Commission's impact on our macroeconomic situation for one moment, and especially not in the historical period that we understand each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77986	Thank you very much. The right to comment on this response is now being given by attorney Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77987	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Greek, so what and how you stated can be found in the press under alleged signs, and you can probably check the tone records. But I accept that what the press is and what the media has passed on in alleged signs you didn't actually say, if that's what you're saying. However, what and the way you explain this, underlining that some of the Croatian economic indicators refer to recovery. And I have to say that some indicators point to recovery I think the joy of me personally is remarkable, but I think that everyone in Croatia is happy as well. But I also don't think that limiting public and fiscal spending is an obstacle to this growing as you are trying to explain to us. Because all those European countries that actually led the recovery of the European Union in 2013 actually did so in the conditions of controlled public finances and low deficits. Therefore, I think it is not even as you like to call on macroeconomic ties and relationships and knowledge of the profession that it has nothing to do with this profession to suggest that any restrictions on public spending could negatively affect growth in Croatia. Because what Croatia needs is more efficient public spending, it requires more efficient and different work by the state that generates and spends this public money and, of course, is achieved through structural refomers. And that was a recommendation from the commission among other things. And that's unfortunately what we don't see, Mr. Vice President, and it's actually very sad for me. Because it's up to you to strengthen that growth impulse seen in the private sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77988	Thank you. 23rd question and respected colleague Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77989	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm asking the question, Mr. Predrag Matic, Minister of Defense. In the media lately, there has been a lot of talk about the problem facing defence cooperatives, or their managers. According to the Croatian defenders who are in invalidity pension, part of the pension will be suspended if they do the job of the head, or the manager of the cooperative. Many cooperatives say this solution will make further work impossible for them, i.e. further business. That's why I'm asking you if you're doing anything about it since it's often stressed that defence entrepreneurship is the most positive project of the Ministry of Defence?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77990	Minister Predrag Matic answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Defence cooperatives are the best thing that has happened to Croatian defenders since the Homeland War. Where defense cooperatives have no problems with defenders, defenders work, contribute to themselves, their families and the wider community. It is a programme that has also been implemented by the former governments since 2004, and we continue to do so today. Not only will we keep this system of defense cooperatives but we will further develop them. Because as I said those defenders who work in cooperatives to see them, it's always a smile from ear to ear, positive, good vibrations, no one haunts them, they don't have any problem with their defensive status that they're being squished and they're different, in only two letters is the difference from these others and they're very positive. So, yes, there was a problem because it was fundamentally imagined that in defence cooperatives, unemployed Croatian defenders work as a program. However, as this has proved to be very, very positive, we have allowed defense cooperatives to work and cooperatives, defenders who are retired. And now he shows up, since we have the Retirement and Co-operation Act of this so-called. The civil sector, a problem arises that cooperatives, cooperative managers, are only one out of over 5 hundred defence cooperatives where the manager is also a retired defender. In agreement with the defence cooperatives themselves, with ministers, with colleagues Mrsic and Maras, it is agreed that one legislative amendment to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and members of their families will bridge this problem and the defenders will continue to be able to do the same as they did before we will have it here before this House of Commons. This point will talk about the fact that if a certain amount of income is achieved by the defence cooperative then the cooperative manager will have to be a person of employment and all of this as so-called. Civil law requires. However, if this is the case, and this is very important to us in the Ministry of Defence, we are conducting resociation, reintegration of Croatian defenders into society, and we will continue to strongly support it. We will settle this only once, by amending a legal provision in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. For the end, I would also say that in some way I would like to commend you, so a month ago we were whole, almost the entire diplomatic cover of foreign ambassadors, military attachés, their deputies were visiting Croatian defenders because after those unkind events in Vukovar from the day of memory when foreign diplomats gained another impression of Croatian defenders. Fortunately, we were able to show them that the defenders in most parts are the positives and the people who are doing something. The diplomatic reactions after a two-day visit to Sinj, Matković and Pločam among Croatian defenders and cooperatives are more than positive, clean ten and we will continue to do so. So the defenders have no problems or will have to do with the management of cooperatives, and that, which is the best programme of the Homeland War against the defenders, will continue to develop and continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77992	Would you like to comment? No, I don't. We move on to the 24th question that will be asked by the respected Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77993	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to the Minister of Justice Mr Orsat Milenić. Mr. Minister, at the end of 2011, about 72,000 companies were in a blockade somewhere. At the same time, about 3,000 bankruptcy procedures and a World Bank study showed us that as far as Croatia is concerned, Croatia is 93 of the 194 countries in the category of efficiency of bankruptcy procedures and the speed of bankruptcy procedures. In order to preserve jobs, primarily to help the fallen companies, this Parliament unanimously passed the Financial Business Act and the Pre-profit settlement Act and the pre-fashion settlement, a law that has laid down a very transparent procedure so that today through FINA we can see very clearly all the information on the pre-fashion settlements made. Of course, the law itself has shown that certain improvements are needed. There are announcements that the Ministry of Justice is working to place the procedure more in the jurisdiction of the courts on the one hand, and on the other hand to work on amending and supplementing the bankruptcy law. So my question is whether this work at the Ministry of Justice is going in these legal texts in the direction of more protection of small believers on the one hand, and on the other hand that pre-warrant settlements are not disputed by the transfer of more jurisdiction to courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77994	Minister Orsat Milenic answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77995	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Representative. So now that we're looking at this moment where we're at, we're trying to pre-fashion settlements, we're even showing that institute as a big evil. But if we were here two years ago, then we'd be talking about this particular data that you said and saw what the bankruptcys that didn't know this part of the pre-fashion deal brought us. What did they bring us? They brought us a good piece of speculation, speculating means a way to identify real estate and go into real estate acquisition at the cost of losing jobs in the first place, loss of business production, everything. So it was a practice, and in that it was the worst we were even failed because according to the World Bank we were among the worse in the world for the length of time, for the success and for what the believers could get out. And that was why it went to pre-fashion, why the Parliament unanimously supported it. So obviously, then thinking was completely that something else had to be done. Pre-trial settlements they had embedded in them this one duality of administrative and judicial proceedings that could once have caused in practice a problem. They were, however, never imagined as a permanent solution. They were conceived as a solution at that time because of all this data that you said would, therefore, give one aid, to save jobs, to allow for further business and now it is up to us to actually make that model that and all of its good sides leap into one total bankruptcy process. What does that mean? We return it and it once existed in the past and it is an institute that knows most of Europe. So we're returning him back to the court's wing in some way from the beginning to the end, the court will be the one to open the pre-trial settlement procedure. We go by one principle that in fact what was one of the Croatian characteristics that we generally went through premechanical bankruptcy and I would say too rightly. The economic aspect has never been considered. So here you have a legal, legal form that needs to be satisfied. You have through this safeguarding of the absolute right of the believer in the first place, because the debtor has shown by his behaviour that he has actually fallen into such a problem that his further business is very, very questionable. So, keeping the right of the believer you have it. But we're also entering one economic element. That's where we keep the Financial Agency. That's what we imagine. So the court starts, the court determines the demands, the court determines the right to vote. So there's no chance of anyone being protected anymore, because that's what the court does. But then try to make a deal, try to make a deal before the Financial Agency, it'll all go back to court again. The state will be represented because the court case is the State's Attorney's office, so that's some kind of procedure. He's going back. We're giving him a chance. What do we want? We're going to include the believers. Believers may sometimes not be able to come directly to their claim, but they can come to part of the property. Maybe they're interested in getting into business, because if that's the only way we'll all choose to try to save something to get our money out, because money is primarily religious. And that's what's basic. The faithful from worker to supplier, that's theirs. So we put them first, and if it works, then the court is actually, but the court has led from beginning to end. So then the court is in a much better position to assess it and confirm it. If it didn't work, then it goes bankrupt. The bankruptcy will also have other elements. Especially what we're going to point out It's more of a liability for bankruptcy managers, but good. [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you.]] That's what we're
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77996	Is there a need for a comment? There isn't. Then we move on to 25 questions that will be asked by respected representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77997	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I refer my question to the Prime Minister. So here is the context of the latest developments in Ukraine and Syria and the clear position of the Member States of the European Union to protect their national interests, i.e. not to go with sanctions against Russia that would harm their economies, my question is whether Croatia has requested compensation for leaving the Syrian fields, hence leaving the field of exploitation in Syria which meant an extremely high source of income for Croatia, i.e. two million dollars a day or over 700 million dollars per year. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Croatia made an extremely harmful decision at a time when we were not even a member of the European Union. Now we see, here's what I see you're talking about, and I think today you're saying that other countries aren't so hasty that they're making decisions that are going to harm their interests and to harm their economies, so I'm curious, so what exactly is Croatia's doing in this particular case to protect its interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77998	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u77999	Well, regardless of what it is, respected advocates that membership in the European Union is such a significant and powerful instrument of protection of Croatian interests, of course, you must take care of yourself. That's what the state serves us. You mentioned Ukraine and Syria are two completely different cases. The crisis in Syria has been going on for two years now intensely. And nollens lovens whatever we do fields you're talking about in Syria are inoperable and I don't even know who would be the address and object of seeking compensation because such damages can then also be sought by the largest non-Croatian corporations in the world, and they also do business there, simply the country in the war. So, for nothing or nothing related to any centre, whether it's Brussels or New York, you can't talk about INA's losses. Otherwise, INA as important as it is is a legal person in which the Croatian state represented by the Government is a significant shareholder. So, unfortunately, this is about higher force, higher major and all those who had jobs there and many had jobs incomparably greater than INA have suffered certain damages. Ukraine, a whole different story. As you know, there are several European countries, more than a few European countries that are highly import-dependent on Russian gas. Croatia is not exactly in that position. And in this context, all countries, when common conclusions are adopted and decisions are taken on sanctions on the European Council, finally on the European Council, so the Prime Ministers, balance and apply how far they go without jeopardising not only the economic but also some strategic energy interests such as public supply, for example, people who heat up with that gas and the industry that uses it. Hungary and Slovakia and Poland are in one situation, Romania and Bulgaria alike, Croatia is in a third situation. So when it comes to these cases of more force, riots, a war where there is simply a break-up is a matter at all tomorrow at the new distribution of cards that will be the legal status of these plants and there we must be as active as the Government as we can but also the INA which was the concessionist of these gas fields to simply return to ownership or return to ownership and continue to work. What, I'm not going to say lost, I'm going to say the profit that has escaped in this time? You don't just have someone to protest, you don't have anyone to go to because it's something that hit all those who were economically present in Syria and losses, or out of profits and profits that were expected are huge but it's not just the INA problem, it's also BP, Schella and other big companies that were active there. Here, this is what the Croatian State can do and what it will do when the situation calms down, so it will be aggressively present in a simple restitution or in a return to the previous situation in these fields and it will be a complicated job because we do not know who will share the cards there. That's where the war is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78000	Commentary, Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78001	Well, I have prepared myself for this issue in fact and for this extremely important topic, and I have come to the fact that only those countries that have exploited over 40 years and over have left Syria and have actually come to an end to their exploitation quotas and have actually come out primarily for reasons that they should not have to bear the high cost of resuscitating the fields while Croatia was actually in a completely different position. In fact, we've just finished investing and started collecting revenue from these fields. I think it was a kind of EU advocacy and perhaps even the positioning of some members of the government in European institutions and at the expense of Croatian interests. And that's why I think, with this claim of compensation, that should be the question of responsibility. A country that advocates seriously and wants to be serious about its national interests must be put far more proactively in such an important topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78002	26th question and respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78003	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My question was addressed to the culture minister, Mrs. Andrej Zlatar Violic. Here is the other day, i.e. we have recently received one good news, finally and formally decided that Croatia will have the opportunity to run for one of its seats, or one of its cities or its region for the European Capital of Culture in 2020. I am interested in what the Ministry of Culture, meaning in the previous period, since we had knowledge that Croatia would be in this process, or that we would have the opportunity for this candidacy, did it according to potential candidates, or how did it encourage them to prepare for the candidacy? Because we see in the media that already several regions, or already several cities in the Republic of Croatia, are preparing or at least giving indications that they will prepare for this candidacy. What are the chances and what are the chances of these regions, since it is quite clear that in recent years these places and those cities that were capitals have achieved the opportunity for their growth and development not only in the segment of culture but also in the economy and tourism, and that this was one added value and visibility of these areas, these capitals that were chosen in the past years. Here, I am interested, although of course I would personally, given where I come from, I would like it to be my region or Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County, I would like you to tell us what the chances are and what the possibilities are and what should be done and how to adequately prepare it to succeed in this project for the benefit of all Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78004	The question is answered by Minister Andrea Zlatar Violić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78005	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Representatives, ladies and gentlemen. It is true that the European Commission and Parliament made a final decision a few weeks ago that Croatia with a really good partner, with Ireland, are the holders of European Capitals of Culture for 2020. The procedure itself starts from June when the European Commission still has to produce a small document but important for cities called the City Guide, which contains precisely those criteria that the European Commission will use in the evaluation. The evaluation process starts in two circles, a total of about 17 to 18 months and leads it, it is important to say 10 European independent experts and a maximum of 2 national, provided that they are independent and are not in any way related to the cities that are in the process of candidacy. I would say that Croatia in terms of odds really gives opportunity to all cities, but there are some criteria. The first criterion is that the project itself will be designed as a project of urban restoration or development through culture. Simply in these documents, which are existing, it says, if the city intends to run with a tourist brochure, it is out of the question. So it's not enough to have just monuments, and it's even worse to have unreal desires or to go build something that won't be useful afterwards. Those cities most successful with the title of the European capital are those cities that have just raised 2 sectors and an economy with the help of culture, including tourism and social inclusion, or the overall social atmosphere in the city and the region. As for the way in which the funding is financed, the way of the European funds is also implemented. The biggest financial impact actually reached Liverpool, it received a return of 10 euros on the euro invested, and the smallest invested was a return of 1 to 2.4 euros. However, not everything in the money we have the experience of cities that have lost in the candidacy because one city goes forward and the rest does not, but also has a great benefit from the candidacy itself because they have also received European visibility and have built and actually made one change in their city. The chances are, in that sense, some small advantages, I would say that cities that are borderline because they will be easier to achieve international co-operation and have a European dimension. So, cities that, whether they're closer to Hungary, I don't know, Hungary, Slovenia, all the countries we're bordering with, but it's not necessary because it can be done through the programme. What's most important, I think it's crucial to be told in the assembly, it's that the project needs a political, truly common option, a political consensus between cities and counties, especially if more cities, which is the practice of recent years going together in candidacy or several neighbouring counties. If that doesn't exist then projects don't really stand a chance. And that is why we should also appeal that every one of you when he returns to his town, both to his county and to his place for those cities that decide to learn in the race to understand the long-term duration of that, it seems to us to be far away but 2 years is a choice, and then 4 years is a job building, financing And that is why it is extremely important not to see it as one decision that only applies to a team but rather to the citizens' agreement on the matter. [[Optionary Vice President: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78006	Thank you, Minister. Commentary, there's no need to comment. We move on to the 20th question, Honored Representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78007	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I ask my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ranko Ostojić. Croatian Parliament representative Milorad Pupovac said in Krnjak on 05.05 that Croatian courts judge according to nationalist criteria, biased, ethnically motivated and in the process, Croats are protected and Serbs are disproved. It is the state of the Croatian judiciary at the time of elections for the European Parliament. That's a statement from a fellow parliamentary representative. I'm asking you as Deputy Prime Minister in charge of internal politics, you haven't responded, none of the members of the government or the ruling coalition reacted. It is important to ask this question because it was one of the worst charges on the part of the Croatian state, at the expense of Croatian state institutions. It is, in fact, a statement that strikes the rule of law and respects court decisions, a charge on which there are citizens who do not have equal treatment and status before Croatian state institutions in this case before courts. Are you aware of what Pupovac said, and what kind of illusions and statements can instigate, and how they echo in the world when it comes to the rule of law and the status of individual minority members in the Republic of Croatia? And not only did the MP say so, said the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, the leader of a political party and candidate for the Kukuriku coalition list for the European Parliament. I'm interested in Mr. Vice-President of the Government whether you agree with that statement because you did not respond, do you really believe that Croatian courts judge according to nationalist criteria and that they are ethnically motivated and do you think that the message sent to Croatian citizens is that a parliamentary representative can challenge the court's decision, that he is above the court's decision. [[Optionary Vice President: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78008	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78009	I'm sorry. Here's just a sentence. Afterwards, the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing has practically adjudicated the court's decision by changing and stopping the hearing. Your comment and attitude, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78010	The vice-president of the government, Honorable Ranko Ostojic, answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78011	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, of course this is not a question for me, but for Mr. Milorad Pupovac of your fellow parliamentary representative, the former coalition partner you've been working with for years with very neatly. First of all, I will respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, the right of parliamentary representatives to give their views freely, if anyone thinks they have reached the vote that someone committed a crime is certain that this institution is equally independent, and this is the state's attorney's office can act in the case of a parliamentary representative. I, of course, don't have to get along, especially with the sentences you said, but what's very important, let's respect that parliamentary deputies have the right to say their opinions, too, you can answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78012	Commentary, Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78013	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I am uneasyly surprised by your response. I expected you to clearly fence yourself from the statements by Mr. Pupovac, who is a candidate for the Kukuriku coalition in the European Parliament elections. So, you will have to make it clear to the citizens whether this view, such an opinion on Croatian courts, has other candidates from the list of Kukuriku coalition for the European Parliament because it is incomprehensible to me, is almost impossible for me today in Croatia, which is a member of the EU, which has passed an extremely difficult negotiation procedure, in which the issue of the Croatian judiciary was the central issue, that someone who is a state official, who is the head of the Committee on Foreign Policy, and I repeat once again, your candidate in the elections for the European Parliament, is saying such a thing. And from you instead of getting a firm view of disagreeing with that, you're talking about some kind of intimate attitude that you might agree or disagree with, and this is one disastrous message. Once again, you advise that you do not understand at all what European values are and that you have not identified yourself with the achievements of European accession negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78014	28th question, Honorable Representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78015	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr. Hajdash Doncic. As you know, Mr. Minister, ACI is mostly owned by the state, the state owns 80% and this ACI is a system of 21 marinas, or port of nautical tourism, from Umag to Dubrovnik. At the same time, ACI is extremely profitable because it brings to the owner, so most of the country, about 20% of the annual income, ACI gains at 20% of the income per year. At the same time, ACI is extremely liquid because this year alone, ACI will invest more than 100 million in its system to raise the quality of its marinas. ACI is indeed the backbone of Croatian nautical tourism. At the same time, your ministry is carrying out hasty work on the privatisation of the ACI to the extent that two of your deputies come to the ACI Supervisory Board meeting and pressure members of the ACI Supervisory Board to choose a pre-arranged consultant that will facilitate this job and for these ACI services with 5 million kuna. If you already intend to make Croatia a better tourist destination, then it would be better for your ministry to open a tender for the concession of new planned marinas according to the spatial plans in the Republic of Croatia and thus enable potential investors interested in the purchase of ACI. My question, Mr. Minister, is there any rational reason for your ministry, i.e. the Croatian Government to privatise the ACI? Do you still have the right to sell out that Croatian jewel in such a form? There are no states in the Mediterranean in nautical form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78016	Minister Sinisha Hajdash Doncic answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78017	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not going to go into the invoices right now, you've made a little mistake in numbers, in the number of connections, in the number of marinas, but well, that's okay. On the other hand... so ACI, it's a company of strategic development, on the third hand, president of the ACI Assembly of fellow Laurencin, but I can answer you. So the government is not preparing for the privatisation of ACI, but rather for deep recording, economists known as... consisting of legal, technical and economic work. After a deep recording has been done, and in order to increase the value, so ACI, it's probably going to be a capitalization, I'm not going to talk about it, work is... on the stock market, it would actually be the opposite of the market rules. Thank you very much. And I don't get watches from the Supervisory Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78018	Commentary Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78019	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, it's not true, you're wrong. Namely, the government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a property management plan owned by the Republic of Croatia 20 days ago, published in the National Journal of which the plan is headed for restructuring, recapitalisation of the ACI. From the circles... Orestite, I didn't interrupt you. So from the circles close to the government, and especially the governing structure of the ACI already knows who the ACI is intended for sale, so I hold that the ACI is part of Croatian national sovereignty and that it is not relevant for Croatian tourism as well as Croatian nautical tourism. You should make it up, not sell it. As I told you, I already know the potential buyer of ACI, for me this sale represents, to paraphrase, the title of the film... the occupation in 21 paintings, how many ACIs there are marinas and I didn't say any false data, I know very well the opportunities and data in ACI. But comfort me and warmly hope, Mr. Minister, that you will spend this privatisation just as successfully as you have spent... Croatian highways, as you have spent the privatisation of HZ-Carg, are as successful as you carry out the privatisation of Osijek airport and Rijeka airport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78020	29th question, dear Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78021	A question for Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Dear Prime Minister, we could recently hear the threats of HZZ President, Mr Tomislav Karamark, how, I quote, everyone in his room, in his house and in his yard can think what he wants, but on the public stage certainly not, a closed quote. So, when he comes to power, he will be able to think and speak only in accordance with his kind of political... which he apparently has already predetermined only correctly. He added that several times to the public that there is no government in Croatia, that there is no government in Croatia. Mr. Prime Minister, isn't this just the final sequence of his practical acceptance of Croatia in two columns because he has shown this in terms of both Vukovar and Borovo Sela, where he has ignored the official column of official Croatia and its democratically elected authorities and accepted another informal column, and it seems to me in a certain way and a para-authority in Croatia. I'd like to hear your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78022	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78023	Dear colleague, you've all said my opinions are the same as yours. Smart enough. And I call on Mr. Bačić to report the crime he's been insinuating here because if he says he knows who the ACI is going to sell to, and the ACI isn't selling it means he has knowledge of a serious crime to report corruptly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78024	Would you comment on Jurovica? No, I don't. 30th question Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78025	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Tihomir Jakovina. Dear Ministers, you have announced the adoption of the Cooperation Act, which is a commendable project, and as far as we can see, everyone supports it from farmers to experts, and since there hasn't been a commission since we had our own country. I wonder if the process of adoption and adoption of this law can be accelerated given that there is a national consensus around it and that the law also provides for projects of melioration and irrigation, which would then be a real hit? The fact is that your ministry passed the Agriculture Act, which is part of the overall reform, but I have the impression that everyone could work a little harder to speed up these processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78026	Minister Tihomir Jakovina's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78027	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Žagar yes, you have said well since '91 that there are almost 20 thousand hectares left in the Republic of Croatia, they have been done according to the law of '79, and there are no more legal frameworks to implement. In addition, we have found that we have nearly 300 thousand hectares that need to be commissioner of agricultural land, and therefore we have also made a good analysis of the positive practices of European countries that are still doing the work and prepared in an extremely professional composition, the commission that worked on the draft law, a good law currently in the public debate. Very positive comments that the beneficiary of farmers of the owners of agricultural businesses and the professional public and very soon we will send the law to the government procedure, and then it will be here afterwards. The aim of the law itself is to round agricultural particles into more regular cadastar particles with a view to better use, increasing agricultural production and increasing the competitiveness of agricultural production. The work of the commission itself will be carried out on the basis of multi-annual programmes of the Croatian Parliament, and the Croatian Government will bring annual plans for the implementation of the commission, which will set deadlines, cover the commissions, sources of funding and the deadlines for the implementation of the commission itself. When we talk about funding, we will finance from the state budget, from EU funds, from local self-government units and should not be any cost to end-users. The effect should actually be very large with that massage. We believe that it is extremely necessary to start as soon as possible and that, in the next few years or plotted plan, it is up to 2020 to compromise, to cover nearly 300 thousand hectares of agricultural land. When you asked whether additional efforts were needed, that in any case we as a system, but in this body you too would have opportunities in two readings because we want to have the best and more high-quality law to participate in our comments and suggestions in that we have an excellent legal solution to work on. The effort, good faith, work, positive energy is always needed in the system perhaps a little more or better preparation when talking about some topics related to agrarian. Today we heard about the need to legalise industrial hemp, so perhaps only the respected colleague Holly supplement since 2012 precisely by changing sublegal acts in my ministry is once again enabled to produce industrial hemp. Currently this year we have issued solutions for 102 manufacturers at almost 627 hectares and this very profitable industrial culture and legalization and it is being re-produced in the Republic of Croatia. Perhaps a little more caution when we talk about potentially large investors, it seems to me that the Danes and tens of millions of euros invested in this production are mentioned. Gentlemen who had a press conference weren't even at the Ministry for the interview, and when they came to the interview, we saw or had a real prepared project or unfortunately whether they were in Denmark or anywhere in Europe dealing with manufacturing industrial hemp. I think 102 producers in the Republic of Croatia with a trend of constant growth show that we have chosen well that we have made quality agricultural production possible again, and this portfolio and this government will continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78028	31st question of the respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78029	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Miljanic, in all public change studies, citizens still voice dissatisfaction with the functioning of the judicial system, especially its efficiency. Your ministry and government have proposed significant reforms in the judicial system, and part of these reforms is a reduction and a large number of reductions, municipal courts, some county but also municipal state attorneys. What's this supposed to be about? Did you also receive the support of the judicial authority and what does that mean? Is this just some kind of technique or what this specifically means for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia regarding the quality of the trial, especially the speed of the trial. In short, can citizens really expect a quick and fair trial with this reform?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78030	It's Orsat Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78031	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Representative. So, citizens are, so let's say this, the situation in the Croatian judiciary is much better than what it shows. We have not been as stated recently in the press even according to reports quoted we are not in the last or the last place in Europe. So the situation in the judiciary is the situation as it is in society, I think it's in the judiciary and better than in the rest. But that we're satisfied as well as the government and the citizens are not. So there's a whole series of things to do to make things better. So far, as you've seen, we've been going through the Parliament for a whole series of amendments to the procedural laws that on the one hand were aimed at raising quality and speeding up procedures. I'll tell you, for example. Infringement law, we have on the one hand reduced more than 27% of inflows to courts, so we have released capacity for something else, speeded up procedures, raised a significant charge while the citizens are satisfied. So these are some things we've been doing. Similarly, we have made the Law on a litigation procedure, etc. But now we're on one section where we need to take a stronger step that's not just a territorial structure, it's a small segment, at least it's the most talked about and the other segment is organisational. So we have to organize ourselves differently to make the citizens even better. What do I mean by that? At this point, the length of the procedure in Croatia is about 460 days first degree. The European, but not the EU average, but the average of the Council of Europe is 272. We've done a rough, rough calculation by which citizens pay more than 2 billion kuna interest just because of that difference. That's one example for you. Another example, at the same time, we are a country that separates the judiciary according to European Union data, so our relative separation is in the middle of the European Union. By the number of judges we are second in the European Union. So a whole series of data. And on the other hand, we don't have until the end a satisfying quality. We have a kind of feudalization system where you have small vessels, a whole series of small courts with one, two, three judges who have to perform all functions as well as a large one. You, for example. You cannot transfer anyone from Zapresic to Vukovar today, although you may have a shortage of people in Vukovar, a surplus in Zapresic, and it is half an hour away by tram, nor. So that's the situation we have. So what do we want to do? At the same time, we do not want to approach only mathematically, because if we work mathematically we could do much more drastic cutting, but Croatia is a divorced country, we have islands, we have a whole series of areas that are poorly populated and where citizens also have to have good legal protection, where we cannot deny access to court. And that's why we decided to balance it. 15 county courts that exist have become a backbone for 15 judicial areas. The original proposal was to go with only 15 municipal courts, however, through a public debate that lasted 3 months we received from the field of response and we decided that each county had one municipal fundamental court as well as one criminal and one municipal state attorney's office. What are we gonna do with that? We'll get to mobility. So where we have a shortage of people, that's where a person will travel. One of the data we have is, let's say, disproportionate to burden. You have men who work 1.5 at the same payload, so we'll take care of that too. So citizens' availability remains the same, speed increases significantly through specialization and quality. Here it is in this short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78032	I thank the 32nd question will be asked by Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78033	Dear Vice President, yes, the question is Minister of Tourism, the question concerns Muzil. Recently, the citizens of Pula said no to golf at Muzil. Not golf, but GUP for Muzil. You probably ministers know or don't know but I at least assume from Brijuni Riviera that she's conjecture will be nothing. From the arrangement of Brijuni Island in a proposed way, except that consultants will withdraw 6.7 million kuna, too, will be nothing. Catherine Monuments has nothing to do with it. There's nothing from Barbariga and Dragonre. From Ljižnjan to today there's nothing. In one word in 23 years in Pula, no new hotel was built, not Pula or Poreč, which is the perjanica of Croatian tourism. Not even from Muzil as it's conjectured, there'll be nothing. And then I ask myself why the court is being rejected. And read it. "The city of Pula received more than 1500 remarks during the public debate on the general urban plan to convert Muzil into a tourist resort with 2500 beds in hotels and apartments, marina, golf course and all in a row refused them. The city also rejected the remarks of professional organisations, institutions such as the Croatian Forests, the Association of Architects of Istria, the Association of Croatian Architects and the State Institute for Nature Protection. Why is he putting golf on that Muzilla? The first golf is as far away as, 1km on Brijuni, the second golf should be 10km in Ljižnjan, three golfers should be 10km away from Muzil in Barbariga and Dragonera, now go I don't know, usurpation of the forest and so on. Let's bet Mr. Minister that no new hotel in Pula, not in Pula, Poreč will be built either in 2015 or in 2016 or 2017. So why rape the public of Istria and the city of Pula?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78034	The Minister of Tourism, dear Darko Lorencin, answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78035	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Agent Cain. The tourism ministry does not have the authority to adopt spatial plans. And I must admit that my question in this direction was not defined in this way but that the question was investment in Croatian tourism in general. So I prepared myself in the same way. But what I can say as Minister of Tourism and as part of the overall investment climate on tourism, I must say that the power to adopt spatial plans is under the auspices of units of local self-government, regional or regional self-government. And as Minister of Tourism, I am obliged to practically support those projects, those plans that represent further development of tourism. Not wanting to get into the selection of councilmen and those who are finally making a decision about it, I can only say that for all these areas that you have listed, for a whole range of investments that are either going to happen to be a former military property, that it is areas where there has been no tourism so far, and that there should be a proportional investment of a lot, a lot more energy to bring this to a point than some privatisations of hotel companies, such as, for example, for at least approximately the purpose that is close to tourism as we have the Coopers case where 20 years has taken place, therefore, or the past two years of intensive work to finally get Coopers ready for investment. It's a matter of extremely complex problems where there are overlapping ingenuities and different resistors. And we believe that only, and that is what we have proven in the Coopers and other locations, we will prove that in the Brijuni Islands where I believe that things are now and in whose jurisdiction Brijuni belong what we do together, so with the Ministry of Environmental Protection that we will have an open tender in the ninth month, a tender for the selection of investors is announced. 410m euros are planned to invest this year. The vast majority of that money has been invested and we hold that rhythm, unlike the previous year when it was invested in tourism 230 million euros, we raise the pace, we create preconditions. We have completed 7 pre-profit deals of companies that have also been in difficulties for 20 years that have had 12,000 beds, losses, a large majority of them above the value of capital. I'd like to mention this HTTP Korčula, which was on its knees, on the edge of existence, and which we found a strategic partner. Also, the privatisation of Maestro, the privatisation of Imperial Rab, the privatisation of Plata. And I'm particularly glad that after 20 years, ACI will launch a new investment, a new marina Your 22 marinas. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78036	Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78037	Today I read this morning that Muzil should contribute to Pula with 107 million kuna, hire 1700 employees. So give your boys downstairs to be serious, because so many employees there are neither Lagoon nor Porec Riviera together, nor Arena tourist, nor Rabac together. So one Uljanik has 1862 employees with an annual income of 692 million kuna and now one Muzil will be incometing 107 million kuna. If we didn't have tourism, that's where we all agree in this assembly we'd be hungry as a nation. If we didn't have that generation that built us a tourist base that was scattered in the 1990s, we would also be hungry in Istria and others in Croatia. But not everything can be subordinated, that's what I mean, the speculant interest of some politicians who for 20 years have been turning state-owned into private, so they've made themselves rich, all the time they've enjoyed large and speculant capital when some of us have fought those interests, destroyed the economy mainly of southern Istria, that I'm not talking about companies here now, etc. But what's certain this time is citizens of Puljština, my impression won't give. And so I say open Muzil to the citizens to meet him, and only then can we talk about planning. Because Muzil is 20% Pula and there must be room for everything and for housing, for POS, I don't know and there must be room for crafts and companies and associations and universities and public institutions, and not just for tourism and not only clearly how to say about speculants. And finally, when I asked the question of investment, there will be nothing from the famously announced Tourism Strategy on the construction of 20,000 new rooms in this activity until 2020. I'd love to be wrong, but it won't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78038	33 questions asked by MP Valter Boluncic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78039	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I have a question for Mr. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. My question relates to the company TESU which is a production company with 120 employees who at the moment all production of 100% gives for export. And last year, for example, it generated revenue of 30 million kuna and has recently been operating in a way that can justify claims by export. TeSU has been fully state-owned since 2003. By 2010, however, there were serious problems in production where tax debt, strikes, lagging salaries were accumulated, with a loan of 16 million kuna from the Croatian Privatisation Fund. A significant part of that money with that part of the money managed to pay back and so that a significant part of the money was returned back to the state budget. And I say since 2010, he's been doing business with exports to justify current consumption. However, a tax debt of about 7 million kuna has accumulated, of which 2 million kunas are only interest to be paid back in monthly wars of nearly 200 thousand kuna. Since in a difficult economic situation, it is sometimes not possible to have accounts, blockades, and forced collection. This way of doing business primarily reduces not only the credit rating of companies which, on this basis, have lost some jobs of 500 000 euros but also the credibility of companies that have managed to take a significant part since 2010. My question would be focused on how to help an export company that I say is 100% exporting, and this technology company, it's about machines from electricity, and that 120 people are not found on the stock market, but that they continue to work. Perhaps one of the options would be the next, which is that since TESU is part of the group of the Uljanik Shipyard, it is located within the walls of the Uljanik, however, when there was damage to the shipyard for the maritime good of TESU as a business and as a plot it did not enter the area even though it occupied about 10% of the Uljanika – 30 thousand meters. So one of the options might be compensation for your land, or any other way to help a 120-dollar manufacturing company. So, please see how you could help Tess overcome this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78040	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78041	Dear Vice President, we will do everything we can to save these jobs, to keep the company competitive, to export. Although these are mainly exports to our internal EU market today, this is our market, and this is also something different from another category than it used to be. Of course, I have to stress that here, keeping a strict account because it doesn't go differently, about the strict rules of state support where it's at work so-called. The level of the plainfield for everyone in the EU and can be helped by certain criteria but we must pay attention to these strict rules because otherwise we will be called for a reason. So, I'm going to look into this case in detail, but I'm not going ahead of myself, but I'm just warning you that we have to be equal to everyone here, help as much as we can, but the laws have to be respected, and the tax has to be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78042	Commentary, Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78043	Thank you. So, the company's been exporting a lot lately to Hungary since it works for railway generators. Here I hope that there will be a way for these 120 people in one technology company to continue working and will certainly contribute to the state budget by exporting and earning and by the way that they are found to be able to afford an old debt before 2010, which was created, to be paid, because it is now also paying the regular salary, and all the payments that are going on. Here, I hope these production activities can be saved too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78044	The 34th question will be asked by respected counterpart Igor Radinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78045	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My question was addressed to Mr. Greek Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Greek you held an interesting press conference yesterday at which you spoke about economic trends in the last, actually in the first quarter of this year and talked about the growth of industrial production in the first three months. In January 2.2%, in February 1.6%, in March 0.7%. You were talking about 8% export growth in that same period, you were talking about a decline in the number of unemployed compared to the same comparable period last year. Today, you were exposed to one of the issues in which the facts of your colleagues were quite different. They either did not listen to you or did not want to hear you in this regard. A whole series of rather destructive and catastrophic assessments have been carried out, and therefore, speaking and all of you are thinking that in public responsibility, they have in any case had an adverse impact on personal consumption and on the expectations of citizens who are also growing in the first three months of this year. Contrary to these catastrophes, the fact is that it grows among other things and so on. The CEIZ index, therefore the index of the Economic Institute, which is quite well, in fact infallible, estimates trends in the economy, slightly faster than official statistics and than GDP. The CEIZ index, after 5 years of falling three months, is growing unconstitutional and is three months in plus. Thus, analysts at the Economic Institute conclude, I will quote them: "In view of the trend of this index in the first three months of this year, the Croatian economy in the first quarter has noted the intensification of economic activity compared to the last quarter of 2013 and therefore estimates that the positive movement of the CEIZ index indicates that the quarterly rate of change in seasonalised GDP in the first quarter of this year could be positive," the quote concluded. Mr. Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, what will the Government of the Republic of Croatia do further to confirm and continue this trend? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78046	The Vice-President of the Government, the esteemed Branko Grcic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78047	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague, colleague and colleague. I have already spoken on this subject several times today. I'd just add, so you see, given these comments after my answers, I have to say, so we don't deal, so this government doesn't deal with lies or obsessions. We consult with our National Statistics Institute, the Economic Institute, EUROSTAT, with all relevant institutions that monitor macroeconomic indicators in the country. And these indicators point to a certain dose of optimism and hope that some things change in Croatia. Is that bad news for anyone? Are we predicating to prefer ink because it might be better lazier, so it's better clicked there on the Internet? I don't know who's in the interest of this country? I think we're all in the best interest of things finally starting to move for the better. So why would my optimism be a worse variant than sharing black news and information that seems to be popular? My optimism is justified, so my optimism is based solely on statistical data. But I haven't missed one moment to say that my optimism is with the reserve because I know exactly what's going to happen in some categories, in some elements of aggregate consumption like public spending that we control as a government, so I know exactly what's going to happen next three quarters, and that's why I'm cautious. I would like personal consumption to continue to recover, for the recovery of personal consumption needs to grow employment and employment growth, or the reduction of unemployment, unfortunately always lags over 6 months behind real economic recovery. And these are the facts that theory and practice proved. So we're a little careful here, too. However, what we cannot ignore is the recovery of industrial production. Here's the information I just got, so from the State Statistics Office, it's been confirmed that industrial production grew 1.3% in March realistically, after the fall in the second month compared to the month before 2.8%. So we went upstairs again. Is that bad news? If this should remain bad news only for him, for Croatia and Croatian citizens it is good news for all of us who are trying to move that economy as I just said. You asked me what we're going to do next? What we've been doing all this time. Therefore, also restructuring or helping to restructure the economy, direct support to the economy under European Union rules, changing the system, strengthening the business climate, public investment to be made, contributing to the private sector, new projects mentioned here today and in energy, and in infrastructure that will certainly employ additional capacity both in construction and in industry. These are the efforts of this government. Tourism, there was now talk of tourism, I didn't hear it mentioned. After 20 years, that should be said, after 20 years through a system of pre-profit deals we have now first received bidders and partners in 10 tourist companies on the Adriatic. After 20 years of trying to privatize them and failing. Secondly, there have been some new projects of tourism where there is a huge interest, 3 privatisations have encountered 57 non-binding offers. I hope that such an interest will be when we enter the binding offer stage Project... [[Optionary Vice President: Time.]] And these days it opens up... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] documentation, 200 million euros worth of project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, these are all events that need to cheer the nation up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78048	Thank you. The last question for the Prime Minister will be asked by a respected colleague, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78049	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister. Despite these sparks of optimism from Mr. Greeks I welcome, I think the conclusion that I will say about the economic and political situation in Croatia remains difficult, I believe it is difficult to overcome. So, we all still talk very often about politicians but also many others are talking about reforms, few who are really ready for any reform, so it was two and three and four years ago and everyone is talking more or less about consensus in politics, few of the politicians who are mostly wearing virtual crowns on their heads ready to bow and lay hands and agree. But it is certainly my opinion, that without any such agreement, such as on several important issues such as the pension system, the health system, electoral reform, or electoral system, territorial structure, and certainly education. So, without agreeing to change in these systems, because in retirement now we're recording 1 to 1 and actually it's a little less than 1 when we're talking about the number of employees and the number of pensioners. The healthcare system is walking on the edge. So, no deal, no consent to say the same thing when we're on the hairline in politics. Remember the Labour, Pension, Pension Act, etc., we will not go forward. So my question, Prime Minister, is whether you are ready for such a kind of agreement that many speak of, and Mr. Gabric wrote to you a letter, my colleague Salapic also spoke on the trail today, including me four years ago and three years ago. Are you up for it because you have 1.5 days left if the ruling majority is stable. .../Intruder Vice President: time." Thus, the line is finally drawn and talks about the successes or the failures of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78050	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78051	Dear fellow MPs, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, I will have to apologize first, this is the last question I have to answer, after which I go, if I want to go to the funeral of Croatian General and Defence Minister Martin Špegel. And to your question, i.e. your call can only be answered positively as always, but for tango, for waltz and for every other dance of that kind it takes two, not even to be skilled, it just takes will and desire. We had a consensus, and in politics, it's hard to manage consensus, as a rule it's mostly done, not by force, but mostly by force. But the consensus on more important things has kept Croatia alive during the war, brought it to the European Union, before NATO, but above all, the European Union. And today, the big consensual issues of the eye are exhausted, these are important political and social issues that need to be agreed on, but if they can't, if someone is obstructing it, then decisions should be made. I, if we are already talking about consensus and issues that are national at this point, see one which is the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Croats, half a million Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina because it sounds unusual, but that's the only thing I've done in this 2.5 year without anyone criticising or having any objections. There seems to be an obvious problem, a problem that we must address within Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state, as future members of the European Union, which will not be thrown off the hook and set impossible conditions, as a route for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina not only in Herzegovina, but in Central Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which I go in a few days to..., towards the EU. It's good for everyone, it's good for all the people who live there and it's good in Croatia. It's the only question I see consensus about right now, but in a different policy than 15 years ago. Everything else is the topic of the talks, pension reform is, that is, the pension issue, we implemented the reform more than 10 years ago, is a very important development issue. This will one day need to be paid, so it will be necessary to pay the pension terms of the economy which is structured differently than 30 years ago. Who will create this new value, who will pay the pensions that are now mostly in the capitalised savings, and what will it look like in 15 or 20 years when a generation of 40 and more of a year olds leave the labour market? When are they going to retire? It's a big question, so the pension line is extending, it's going up, but is that right for everyone and for everyone? There are various kinds of jobs, there are people who can and may need to work until 70 and over, and they will be more and more privileged and will earn more on the basis of their knowledge and experience, and there are people who are hard, in conditions where non-intellectual businesses are increasingly underpaid, working from their 18th or 19th or earlier and cannot work until 70s or 65s because they will simply be physically destroyed. These are deep-humans, not just economic issues that we believe we can very easily agree on. But we also have to make decisions, we have to manage, we have to be responsible for the people who chose us and put ourselves on their test, not just every 4 years, but every day, and that is responsible and difficult, so I am not asking for any over-excessive understanding, I expect competition and political struggle, fight ideas, fight attitudes, correct proposals, but I will repeat once again, decisions must be made because Croatia cannot stand. These indicators are good, but they are not definitive and I always welcome the approach Mr Branko Grcic, Deputy Prime Minister, has now expressed. Mine is, too, to tell the truth, so it's gonna be hard, reducing public spending and waste. It's going to have an impact on the GDP because it's one of the five components of the GDP and I'm stopping there because my time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78052	We'll also hear a comment on this response, the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78053	Yeah, I agree, it takes two tangos, but somebody's got to get up first and ask for a dance. You remembered me... with a rose in my mouth from the movie "Some like it hot" that says "no one's perfect." Therefore, calling for agreement can only be a strong, call for agreement and a call for consensus, or agreement on anything in Croatia would not mean that anyone has lost. You are now the most responsible, therefore call on the agreement of all relevant political parties, i.e. the parties on these issues that if we do not solve, we will continue to spin around in a circle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78054	The 36th question is asked by Agent Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78055	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, I would like to ask my question to the Minister of Construction, Mrs Anki Mrak Taritas. The question is, since the 1990s, we have been witnessing numerous real estate assessments, which is doubtless that the real estate assessment market is not well arranged, and the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning has developed a regulation on real estate assessment. So the question would be, can you tell us at what stage is the adoption of this regulation or more precisely, when it could be ready for adoption and what are the most significant changes it brings?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78056	Secretary Anka Dark Taritash responds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78057	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, Honorable Representative Bilek. Indeed, the real estate market is one of the very sensitive markets, and it is indeed a fact that these days we are witnessing that the experts have been estimating real estate, that the difference in the estimate is not the difference between 10, 20% but the difference between the two estimates and the two digits in the differences they are. Otherwise, in the EU, there are two basic methodologies in the real estate assessment, that is one... and the other method is German. Croatia is one of the few countries that has no regulated principle methodology and we have done so. So we've developed a regulation of real estate assessment, this regulation has three methodologies in a way that can evaluate real estate, there's one comparative methodology, the other is a market methodology and the third is income. What's most important when we've done some scenarios, when a different court expert uses one of these methods, in the future for real estate assessment, the difference can be up to 10%. Therefore, this Regulation defines methodologies and defines ways in which real estate can be assessed. And now the key question, which is when? We have provided for this regulation by the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which was in force since 01 January 2014, in order for this regulation to be in the process of adoption in the Government, the Law on Execution must also be adopted. The law is before this esteemed House in the second reading, after the law has passed its procedure, a week after that we will go to the government with a regulation on property assessment. And who will she refer to? They'll refer to everything, to all the real estates that will be evaluated. So buildings, land, agricultural construction, will apply this regulation. What is important and important is that the results of the evaluation will be seen and made available to our citizens. We have an information system of spatial arrangement in which we run processes and planning and in the future we will be leading, and in this system we will be able to see block real estate estimates that were one of these methods that I was talking about. So this regulation is certainly necessary, and what we are little about talking to colleagues of others in the EU dealing with this problem, all point out that this should be the law. We have decided to take the first step of the regulation, to regulate that unregulated area, and after a certain time we will be absolutely ready for us or some other ministry to translate it into law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78058	Thank you. Representative Vladimir Bilek. Here's a comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78059	Thank you very much for your response, Madam Minister. So I think that finally in Croatia the time has come for some things to be arranged especially when it comes to the real estate market were buildings, were it the physical houses of our citizens or agricultural land he said what you said we were witnesses not only recently but also in a number of long years that some had discovered wrong estimates or paid estimates, say, even ended up in prison courts. I think that this is really the time and that in some way this regulation which I hope will soon be translated into law when it shows one real action on the ground that it will introduce order into the real estate market in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78060	The 37th question raises the respected Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78061	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to address my question to the Deputy Prime Ministers of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs Milanki Opačić. In addition to the fact that unfortunately Croatia is located in a natural depopulation and that there is one negative natural increase because 15 thousand people are born in Croatia less than they are dying from Croatia in the last three years, about 60 thousand mostly young people have emigrated. This intense process of evicting especially young Croats and Croats if it does not stop, it will have a devastating effect on our country's demographic and social economic development. That is why I ask you as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth, what do you, as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth, do you or do you intend to stop the process of emigrating young people and especially educated persons from the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78062	This is Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78063	Well, this may be a lot more of a question for the economic sector because it seems to me that these young people are just because I can't find a job. So the moment that stronger jobs start to open and when we start to get some positive effects that Greek Vice President was talking about, I think that young people will then stay in Croatia. Although, of course, by opening up new opportunities and new opportunities in the EU, there will always be those young people who will want much more of the challenges they can get in EU countries, not the Republic of Croatia. So I personally regret every young person, educated, professional in whom we have invested a lot of money and a lot of effort that goes out of Croatia, who will work elsewhere and not by their own knowledge to contribute to Croatia's progress. But once again, I would like to say that I think the only measure that young people can leave in Croatia is jobs that will be available to them because, unfortunately, they are not available at this time. I think it will help a lot and this guarantee for young people that we have worked out well... because the first country in the EU is aware that we have a very large number of small educational people who are unemployed and I hope that the guarantee for young people will also produce certain results and that a good share of young people will find their employment. And there's something else I have to say we've been under a lot of criticism because we've given young people these years of professional training, but that's also given positive results. There are plenty of young people who have found their place in the economy, unfortunately we in the state administration couldn't keep a lot of these young people, and we have to tell you that there was even tears in the ministries because indeed these young educational people were very valuable and carried a new energy and new knowledge that they had with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78064	Commentary on Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78065	I still think that I should have referred the question to you because it is the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and you could have stopped this eviction by certain measures and programmes. Croatia, for example, while in the system of other state formations was exposed to the exodus of Croats in the late 19th century, in particular in the '45th year, then in the 1960s, the 1970s and for economic and political reasons, so today we have more than 3 million Croats and their descendants, according to estimates abroad. Also according to certain figures of the Croatian World Congress of a total number of higher education Croats over 1/3 is abroad, which is devastating and catastrophic. It is sad to say that today we are witnessing the emigration of young and educated Croats and Croats when Croatia is a free and independent democratic state and instead of creating conditions for me and taking measures and stimulating the return of Croats from emigration and team and demographic and economic empowerment of the Republic of Croatia, we unfortunately do not take adequate measures or create conditions to stop this emigrant wave I would dare say the exodus of these young educated Croats, which I am sure will have incomprehensible demographic, economic and general social negative consequences for the Republic. I'm not satisfied with this answer here I'd like to ask you a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78066	The 38th question is asked by the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78067	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My question was addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs Milanki Opačić. Dear Madam Minister, the separation of follow-up activities in the public sector known as outsourcing has caused many conflicting reactions in the media but also criticism by the unions, with the reason that this will violate workers' rights, to be more specific about workers who are employed in cleaning, washing and ironing, food preparation, transportation and protection. Can you please explain to us what the objectives of this reform are and will in any segment damage or result in a risk for workers employed in those professions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78068	This is Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78069	So every reform causes resistance, everyone is in principle for reforms, but when it comes to them then of course everyone is on their feet and they're all against it. We had a conference about 15 days ago in which we invited employers and trade unions, and we also invited a representative of Italian labour unions who participated in the negotiations 20 years ago when they went into the separation of follow-up activities to hear their positive and negative experiences because we do not need to learn on our own. Now we already have quite enough examples in the European Union, all those who went into such reform procedures that we can see their positive and negative sides and therefore work on their own policy. I'm sorry that at that conference, the unions refused to participate at the beginning. We in the government will not give up, we will ask them again to sit together at the table because it is in our interest that such a major reform move is still agreed in cooperation with trade unions and employers and that a tripartite agreement is eventually signed. This is about that no worker will be left without a job, and they, therefore, are individuals in the union who are scaring the workers that they will lose their jobs are not friends with these workers, and I am telling them from here that no one will lose their jobs, they will all be protected by a certain social clause because there is a provision in the Labour Act that allows it. Likewise, the European Union Directive on the protection of workers' rights at the time when the entire economic unit is therefore transferred to the private sector. We will therefore go with the social clause, with the protection of workers' rights, all in accordance with the directives and what we agree together. I hope that at that moment when we specifically sit down about the agreement, the trade unions will be much more concrete and much more detailed and hopefully more responsible so that we can really agree together what rights these are and what level we need to protect. And of course we're going to have one clause, which is that one that doesn't respect our agreement after a public tender has been held that we're going to be able to put the entire economic whole back into the public sector or the state sector. Therefore, we will have some protection mechanisms if those who pass in a public tender do not behave in accordance with the agreement we have signed. So that workers, as far as their labour rights and jobs are concerned, do not have to fear, we will indeed do everything in agreement. I call on the unions to really sit down with us at the table and make this agreement together.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78070	There is no need to comment on this, so the 39th question raises the respected Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78071	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth, Ms Milanka Opačić, Minister, how in the light of the reforms for which you are in charge and which you are conducting to organise care and care for the old, sick and poor of our fellow citizens who are more and more in the Republic of Croatia, what about the demographic picture and what about the economic situation? I insist on this question precisely because here, just a while ago, a fellow representative was commended by a program of assistance in the house that was 30.4. And the users who are now in vain waiting for help in the house are worried about yours and the ministry... a statement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know if you know that there are subcontractors that meet all the legal requirements that they could continue this program without interruptions. That is why this population feels unprotected and unsecured. The more you announce the economic prices of the home, the less the agreed number of accommodations and other services from the service network, the more you announce the closure of the facility. All reforms that go in terms of abolishing both rights and compensation. Are these old, sick and powerless right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78072	The Deputy Prime Minister, Milanka Opačić, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78073	Exactly if you were listening to the question of previous colleagues about helping out in the house. So, no problem at the ministry, five months from the ministry we're talking to both county and subcontractors. So... Five months in this assembly passed the Social Care Act where we said new criteria were going. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as we're concerned, we've done everything. That subcontractors still haven't brought their users' list to the center today so they can check and issue a solution to them, you really can't transfer it to me as my responsibility. Not to say that we have a county where the county didn't react at all because they should give permits to those who are service providers. So that's the problem, which is why we haven't functioned in one part yet. And in other parts, everything's fine. So why some municipalities and cities work neatly here, why we got 20 new cities. So those who wanted to, who really cared about those older people, they tried and did everything. The solutions have been issued. However, those here to this day have not yet given up and we have called them today, and a few days ago we also had the activity of our directors, so I simply can't push it away from what I'm trying to do and my people at the ministry. As for this second reform of retirement homes, so here's just a word. Neither about the closure of any institution nor about the reduction of the network than about one fairer system. I'm just going to ask you something, do you think it's fair that in the retirement homes that we pay as county-owned states are people who have apartments at sea so 6 months from home go to the apartment at sea, 6 months our room in a home is empty? Do you think it's fair that in these homes for 2800 kuna there are people who have villas at sea, who have huge properties in the centers of large cities and that because they fill such homes, we can't put these poor people you're talking about? These poor ones stay home and often there is no one to bring them food or turn them into their bed. So the purpose of this reform is neither the closing of homes nor the reduction of services but simply one more just system in which those who have either pension or property will be able to pay the economic price. Those who won't be able to pay because they don't have any property or have enough pension for them we'll take care of them as a state because that's our basic purpose and purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78074	A comment of this response, respected Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78075	I really expect you to say that you are also publicising, and I am also writing a plan of activity with carriers and deadlines on how you intend to reform the old and the sick. I was expecting it because, unfortunately, we hear it all the time in public from the rest of the ministry when it wants to change something, we're talking about abuses. Abuses should and all of us agree to end and punish, but they cannot be a form by which the law will be made and by which all other users will be punished. It is sad to hear from the Secretary-General that when he speaks to social care users, he speaks of them as someone who abuses the system, about workers as non-workers who need to be disciplined through outsourcing. It is unfortunate that the health care was fought because of the interest of its patients not to go to outsourcing workers from their activities, and from our ministry for the benefit of users who have specific needs it has not even tried. Workers, professional workers for you are those who do not know how to do their job, break the rules and threaten them both with shifts and cancellations. I ask you a written answer for the safety of people who can plan their lives, not to pass as these users of the program who have been waiting a few days for someone to open the door, bring bread and milk. In your resolution ministry, check which subcontractors are, whether they have the legal basis to continue without interruptions of this programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78076	40 questions asked by respected colleague Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78077	Thank you, Vice President. I refer my question to Mr Branko Greek, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and EU funds. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, here comes the anniversary of our full membership in the EU soon. We all expected a lot from this European Union, and in fact it gave us an additional dose of optimism about which we are here today in the assembly almost everyone is talking about. But what is in no way good is that here in the assembly we are divided on two sides, on the sides which in some way apply to the positive things that this European Union has given us and which perspective it has put before us. I certainly mean EU funds. Today, we have also heard the thesis that has been going through the media for the last time that Croatia is, in fact, down by entering the EU when we talk about finance, that we have paid more for EU membership than we have managed to withdraw the funds of concrete projects. So I ask you in the name of the truth that we have been talking about here all day today, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister, to tell and for us and for the sake of the entire Croatian public, which is the exact data, which are the exact indicators, and at what point is Croatia currently in terms of withdrawing funds from the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78078	Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78079	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So, let's maybe get two things straight. So one thing is the EU funds and the withdrawal of EU funds through projects, through implementation of projects on the ground, payment of money for projects, etc. etc. And the other story is so-called. Cash flow of money in and from the European Union towards Croatia. And I'm separating those two things now. I have already answered this first during today's current clock, so the use of structural funds and pre-accession funds throughout this period behind us. And now I'm talking exclusively about cash Flow, so the answer to the question is, is it really true that we're paying in the budget of some money, the EU budget of some money, and that we didn't get anything from the EU budget. Of course that's not true. So last year, the 6 months of full membership balance was small but positive, somewhere around 18 million euros total was a positive balance and we concluded in 2013. In the first four months of this year, we have paid exactly 222m euros in the EU. These are the data of an institution called the National Fund of the Ministry of Finance, which has been specifically established, because the National Fund passes through all the funds associated with the transactions of the Croatian State with the European Commission or the European Union. So these payments went through the National Fund and 222m euros were paid. On the other hand, on a variety of grounds, this is also about the advances that someone mentioned today, the advances, of course, of the 150m euros that were very much said would never come, etc. etc. Yes, he came and went to the expense of a national fund of 150m euros in advance. But there's also funds, so-called funds. The Schengen facilitity, meaning for the establishment of the Schengen system in Croatia. There are also funds that have been refunding projects that have been implemented for 7, 8 years in Croatia, so those that are currently being implemented and payments come at the expense of the National Fund after the accounts on the implementation of individual projects have been certified in the European Commission. So confirmed by the European Commission. There's a payment for the so-called. cash flow in the Croatian budget itself. As you know in the negotiations, we have negotiated that some 80m euros is a clean aid to the liquidity of the Croatian budget, so some wars have now been paid in these four months. So when you add all this up plus payments based on support to our farmers, it means support within the framework of agricultural policy all together at this point, i.e. a pardon on 30.04. this year, 341m euros were added to the National Fund. So that's statistics again. There's no Greek or anyone who can't lie, that's numbers, right, that's facts. Therefore, the net effect of 118, or 119m euros, or in kunas 885m kuna, more has been added to the National Fund than has been paid to the EU budget by the end of the 4th month. And I think it's a respectable result so far. Of course, we have tried and assessed at what speed the absorption will be based on project realization and have reached the figure to welcome the end of the year with some 140m euros in some realistic scenario. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78080	There are no comments, so we move on to the last 41st question that will be asked by respected colleague Nadia Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78081	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'm asking the question of the Minister of Labour and Pensions System to Mr. Miranda Mrsic. Dear Ministers, we know that unemployment is the most difficult problem right now in Croatia but not only in Croatia but also in our environment, so in the EU. In the context of these facts, the data published a few days ago by the Croatian Employment Service, which speak of unemployment being reduced at the monthly level. So, for two months in a row, we have a decrease of almost 6% in April, and a slightly slight decrease is visible or is also seen at the annual level. That's an immeasurable way to say welcome data. However, I must ask you, is it only seasonal oscillations, or can we talk about some kind of positive changes, therefore, about the beginning of the Croatian labour market's recovery?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78082	Minister Miranda Mrsic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78083	Dear Mr. Vice President, so when we talk about unemployment, then unemployment should be seen as a trend over a long period of time. What is the fact that we in Croatia have had an increase in unemployment since 2008. Only in one period there before the 2011 elections was a virtual decline in the number of unemployed because 15 thousand people were sent to education that did not benefit them or the state, only embellished the appearance of the number of unemployed. These people returned to the unemployment records in 2012. We see a trend that, in order to assess it, we still need to wait for data in the 6th, 7th month, but some things have been seen for a long time. And for a long time, there has been a reduction in unemployment from economic activity. Therefore, the labour market in Croatia has been restructured and we have a growing number of our citizens' entry due to the loss of jobs. However, we have an increased number of inactivity entrys, these are our fellow citizens who were unemployed and who had no faith in finding a job, have not applied to the Employment Service, have not been registered, these fellow citizens are returning to the Employment Service records because apparently the active employment policy measures we have implemented have led people to believe that they can find a job and that they can find so much desired employment. This is what they say in the contribution and data that we have repeatedly published about the number of people who are active in employment policy measures. Last year, we had one of the biggest numbers, and I hope this year we can reach that number. There have been problems with the funding that we have jointly solved through the National Fund, so we expect that we will be able to do everything we have to do this year. At this point, there are about 12.5 thousand demands for an active employment policy measure, more than we have ever had in these 6 months, which is in favour of the measures being resuscitated and the measures working. During this time period we have processed all these requirements and now the other part follows, and this is the financing of these measures, which means that all those who are granted funding and work without the establishment of employment, self-employment, public works will all be financed through the Employment Office. The second trend we see, and it is obviously related to the economic activity, is that 4 main activities show recovery, and when we talk about employment, it is the processing industry, trade, provision of accommodation and preparation of food services, so tourism and catering, but also construction. What we can always say is that this is related to seasonal employment but looking at 2013 and 2014 we have had an equally successful tourist season, it tells us that the growth we see in employment especially in construction, the processing industry is saying that the market is starting to move, that it is beginning to employ and that economic activity will also start to result in a growth in GDP over a certain period of time. Therefore, this trend is, in order to assess whether it is permanent or not, it will still take a certain period of time, but all these indicators are in favour of waking up the labour market in Croatia and driving economic activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78084	Thank you. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its I would like to inform you that the Government and the Ministry have not delivered a response within the prescribed time limit to 45 parliamentary questions and, in accordance with the said business provision, I would like to ask for answers to be delivered within 8 days. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are currently finished this morning. I am now setting a recess until 15.00 hours when we will proceed with the Mandate-Immunity Commission's report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78085	Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues continue, i.e. we begin working at the plenary session of the 13th session of the Croatian Parliament on the already established agenda. It's number one. The Mandate-Immunity Commission report. I'd like the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, dear colleague Gordan Sobol, to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78086	At the 37th session held on 14 May 2014, the President's Mandatno-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of MP Slavko Linic for re-behaving as a representative. Namely, he informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that he had given it on 06 May 2014. The government of the Republic of Croatia has relieved the finance minister of its duties so as to stop his incompatibility with the exercise of its parliamentary duties. The commission found that Slavko Linic, who was elected to the 7th constituency, began on 23 December 2011, due to incompatibility of his duties, and that the deputy deputy representative's duties on the same day began to act as Josip Bencic. As Slavko Linic submitted a written request within the legal deadline, the commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met and that the stay of the parliamentary mandate ended 8 days after the day of submission of the application, and the same day ended the conduct of the parliamentary duties of Deputy Representative Josip Bencic. Following this, the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposes unanimously to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the suspension of the term of office of representative Slavko Linic on 15 May 2014 and to suspend the conduct of the deputy representative, Josip Bencic, on 15 May 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78087	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. Please, we don't go before the decision, let's go vote before it's fairer. Please state who's for the proposed decision by raising your hand? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 106 votes in favour. Let's go to the next decision, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78088	Thank you. At its 37th session held on 14 May 2014, the mandate-immunity committee discussed the written request of MP Nada Cavlović-Miljanec for re-behaving as a representative of the post. On 8 May 2014, she informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had relieved her of her duties as Assistant Minister of Finance, Director of the Tax Administration on 08 May 2014. The resignation of Nadi Cavlovic-Miljance, elected in the 4th constituency, began on January 1st, 2012 due to incompatibility of duty. As of 18 January 2012, Sandra Petrović and from 05 July 2013. Mariana Zivko. As Nada Čavlović-Smiljanec submitted a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit, the commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met and that the stay of the parliamentary mandate ended 8 days after the day of submission of the application, and the same day ended the conduct of the deputy deputy representative Marija Zivko. Following this, the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposes unanimously to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the suspension of the term of office of representative Nada Čavlović-Smiljanec on 16 May 2014 and to suspend the conduct of the deputy deputy representative Marijana Zivko on 16 May 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78089	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Please raise your hand to state who's in favour? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 109 votes in favour. Please continue, the third.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78090	Thank you. At its 36th session held on 25 April 2014, the mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament addressed the request of the municipal state attorney in Varazdin through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Vesna Željnik, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, on grounds of suspicion that she committed a criminal offence against the property of the fraud referred to in Article 236(1). Penalty law. Vesna Željnik, deputy deputy representative in the 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament, began acting on 18 January 2012 and has immunity until the end of the parliamentary term. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are prescribed that between the meeting of the Assembly a decision on the application for authorisation for the initiation of the criminal proceedings shall be taken by the Mandatative Immunity Commission, by which the decision must be subsequently confirmed by the Croatian Parliament at the next session. The mandated Immunity Commission has unanimously decided to grant authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against the representative of Vesna Zelenjak at the request of the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Varazdin as of 18 April 2014, on the grounds of reasonable suspicion that it has committed a criminal offence... of the property by fraud referred to in Article 236, paragraph 1. Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78091	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion for a decision for... a plea. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 108 votes in favour. I'm asking the fourth motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78092	At the 37th session held on 14 May 2014, the mandated immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the attorney-in-chief Ivan Gersic of Fažana for the authorisation of continuing the criminal proceedings against Ade Damjanac for the offence, the criminal offence and the crime of defamation, as referred to in Articles 147, 148 and 149. Penalty law. Ada Damajnac shall act as deputy deputy representative of Zlatko Komadina and shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased. The mandated immunity commission unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision, during the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to conduct criminal proceedings against MP Ade Damjanac after the private lawsuit of Ivan Gersic of Fažana. Namely, the Mandating Immunity Commission has taken the view that in the case of private prosecutors as well as cases where the damage done as a subsidiary prosecutor enters the place of state attorney because the state's attorney found that there is no basis for the initiation or conduct of a criminal proceedings, the Commission will propose to the Croatian Assembly a denial of the authorisation. The criminal proceedings may also be initiated after the end of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78093	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate Immunity Commission. There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I'd like to make a statement about the committee's motion for a decision. Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Is anyone restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 108 votes in favour. Please, we are moving on to - A report from the mandate-immunity committee, please, President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, the respected Gordan Sobol, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78095	Thank you, Mr. President. At its 38th session held on 22 May 2014, the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption of Organized Crime, which was addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Nada Čavlović-Smiljanec, representatives in the Croatian Parliament, on grounds of reasonable suspicion that she committed a criminal offence against the official duty of trade in influence referred to in Article 295(1). Penalty law. As Nada Čavlović-Smiljanec is a representative of the 7th constituency of the Croatian Parliament, without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it cannot be initiated or prosecuted. After the debate, the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision. An authorisation shall be granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings against representative Nada Cavlović-Smiljanec at the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption of Organized Crime from 19 May 2014 on grounds of reasonable suspicion that she has committed a criminal offence against the official duty of trade in influence referred to in Article 295(1). Penalty law. The mandate-immunity committee decided to grant authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against a representative in the Croatian Parliament of Nada Čavlović-Smiljanec at the request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences in order to be able to carry out its duties without delay, which was based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78096	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate on the motion for a decision. I am voting on a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 112 votes, the proposed decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission has been made. We're going to the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, respected by Gordan Sobol, to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78098	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 39th session of 17 June 2014 the written request of MP Željko Jovanovic on the re-behaving of the parliamentary office of 11 June 2014 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that he had been on 11 June 2014. The government of the Republic of Croatia has dismissed the duties of Minister of Science, Education and Sports, thus ending his duties that are incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties. The Commission found that the stay of the parliamentary term of office of Željko Jovanovic began on 23 December 2011 because of the incompatibility of the duties set out in Article 9. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament and that the deputy deputy MP's duties began to act on the same day by Lidija Bagaric. As Zeljko Jovanovic submitted a written request within the legal deadline, the commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met and that the stay of the parliamentary mandate ended 8 days after the day of submission of the application, and the same day ended the conduct of the deputy deputies to Lidija Bagaric. The mandate-immunity commission unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament the decision to suspend the term of office of MP Željko Jovanovic from the date of 19.06.2014 and to suspend the conduct of the deputy deputy representative, Lidija Bagarić, on 19.06.2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78099	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a statement of the proposed decision. Please raise your hand to state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been made by a majority of votes, 118 votes in favour and 1 abstention. Thank you very much. Please proceed to the Honorable President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78100	At the 39th session held on 17 June 2014, the mandate committee discussed the written request of MP Rajko Ostojić on the re-behaving of the parliamentary office of 12 June 2014 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 11 June 2014, the Government of the Republic of Croatia relieved him of the duties of the Minister of Health, which ceased his duties which was incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties. The Commission found that the suspension of Rajko Ostojsic's parliamentary mandate began on 23 December 2011 because of the incompatibility of the duties set out in Article 9 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament and that the parliamentary duties of deputy MPs began to act on the same day by Borislav Kovacic. How Rajko Ostojić is in line with Article 13(1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has submitted a written request within the legal time limit for the commission to determine that the conditions laid down by law have been met and the stay of the parliamentary term ends 8 days after the day of submission of the application, and the same day ceases the conduct of the parliamentary duties of Deputy Representative Borislav Kovacic. The mandate-immunity commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament the decision to suspend the term of office of MP Rajko Ostojić on 20 June 2014 and to suspend the conduct of the deputy representative, Borislav Kovacic, on 20 June 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78101	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 118 votes in favour and 1 abstentions have been made by the proposed decision. Here's the President-in-Office of the Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78102	Thank you. At the 39th session held on 17 June 2014, the mandate committee discussed the written notice of Representative Joza Radoš to begin his term in the European Parliament on 1 July 2014 and to end his term of office in the Croatian Parliament. The commission found that Jozo Rados was elected representative in the 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and that his parliamentary mandate began on 22 December 2011. In view of the election held on 25 May 2014 for members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia, Jozo Rados was elected a member of the European Parliament and his mandate begins on 1 July 2014, the Commission found that the conditions for the termination of the parliamentary term were met in accordance with the Law on the selection of members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian People's Party – Liberal Democrats has ordered MP Jozo Radosa to replace Vesna Sabolic. The mandate-immunity committee therefore proposes to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the termination of the representative's term of office, Joza Radosa, on 1 July 2014 and to start acting as deputy deputy representative of Vesna Sabolić, on 1 July 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78103	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please plead. Who's in? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 120 votes for the proposed decision. Thank you very much. We are going to decide on the proposed acts which have been discussed at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. Report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission, please the Honorable President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Commissioner Gordan Sobol, to submit the reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78105	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At its 40th session held on 4 July 2014, the mandate committee discussed the written notice of Agent Tonin Picula to begin his term of office in the European Parliament on 1 July 2014 and to suspend his duties as representative in the Croatian Parliament. The Commission found that Tonino Picula was elected representative in the 7th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament and was elected a member of the European Parliament in the European Parliament elections held on 25 May 2014. The term of office of the European Parliament shall begin on 1 July 2014, and shall meet the conditions for the termination of the parliamentary term of office of Agent Tonin Piculi as prescribed in Article 10. The law on the election of members in the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia, and his deputy Allen Prelec continues to act as deputy deputies. The mandate-immunity commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the termination of the parliamentary term of office of Representative Tonin Piculi on 1 July 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78106	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a decision on the proposed decision. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been taken unanimously with 112 votes in favour. Continue with the esteemed president.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78107	Thank you. At the 40th session held on 4 July 2014, the Immunity Commission discussed the written notice of Mr Biljana Borzana to begin her term of office in the European Parliament as of 1 July 2014 and to suspend her duties as representative in the Croatian Parliament. The commission found that Biljana Borzan was elected representative in the 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and was elected as a member of the European Parliament in the European Parliament elections held on 25 May this year. The term of office shall begin on 1 July 2014, thereby fulfilling the conditions for the termination of the parliamentary term of office of representatives of Biljani Borzan, as referred to in Article 10. The law on the election of members in the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia, and its deputy, Hrvoje Nekic, continues to act as deputy deputies. The mandated Immunity Commission proposes to take a decision on the termination of the parliamentary term of office of representatives of Biljana Borzan on 1 July 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78108	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been taken unanimously with 112 votes in favour. Continue with the esteemed president.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78109	Thank you. At the 40th session held on 4 July 2014, the mandate committee discussed the written notice of representative Ruža Tomasic to begin her term in the European Parliament on 1 July 2014 and to suspend her duties as representative in the Croatian Parliament. The commission found that Ruža Tomasic was elected representative of the 7th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament, and was elected member of the European Parliament in the European Parliament elections. The term of office shall begin on 1 July 2014, thus fulfilling the conditions for the termination of the parliamentary term of office of representatives of Ruža Tomasic in accordance with Article 10. The law on the election of members in the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia, and its deputy, Ivan Simunovic, continues to act as deputy MPs. The mandated Immunity Commission proposes to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the termination of the parliamentary term of office of MPs Ruža Tomasic on 1 July 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78110	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a statement. Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been taken unanimously with 112 votes in favour. Continue with the esteemed president.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78111	Thank you. At the 40th session held on 4 July 2014, the Immunity Commission discussed the written notice of Agent Ivan Jakovčić to begin his term in the European Parliament on 1 July 2014 and to cease his duties as representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The commission found that Ivan Jakovcic was elected representative in the 7th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament, and in the European Parliament elections held on 25 May this year he was elected to the European Parliament. The term of office shall begin on 1 July 2014, and the conditions for the termination of the parliamentary term of office of Ivan Jakovic shall be laid down in Article 10. Law on the election of members in the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia, and his deputy Giovanni Sponza continues to act as deputy deputies. In accordance with this, the Mandate Immunity Commission proposes to make a decision on the termination of MP Ivan Jakovic's term of office as of 1 July 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78112	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am making a statement of the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been taken unanimously with 112 votes in favour. Thank you very much. We will now move immediately to the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, respected by Gordan Sobol, to submit a report to the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78114	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President Mandatno-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the 41st session of 11 July 2014 a written statement by MP Igor Radinovic informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that he was putting his representative mandate to rest due to the behaviour of Deputy Minister of Finance who is incompatible with the behaviour of representatives of the office. The Social Democratic Party of Croatia in accordance with Article 12(1). The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated by Karolina Leakovic as Deputy Representative Igor Radinovic. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of Igor Radinovic's parliamentary mandate as well as the conditions for the start of acting as deputy deputy MP, Karolina Leakovic. The mandate-immunity committee proposes unanimously to the Croatian Parliament to decide on 10 July 2014 to begin the stay of MP Igor Radinovic's term of office in accordance with Article 9(9) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 11 July 2014 begin to act as Deputy Representative Karolina Leaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78115	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 87 votes in favour. Now we're going to approach the oath. The oath shall be given in a way that the President or the Chairman shall read the text of the oath, and after that the representative shall, when called, rise up and say the word I swear. The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will exercise consciously and responsibly in my work the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Dear representative Karolina Leakovic. So we've exhausted this agenda point, and now we're moving on to another point. 2. Suggestion to show confidence, Mr. Boris Lalovec to perform his duties as Minister of Finance. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic submitted a proposal to show confidence to Boris Lalovec for his role as finance minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament were held at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received a report from the board at the session. Yes, the board president. Here you are, Mr. President-in-Office of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Srdjan Gjurkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78117	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Lalovac, colleagues and colleagues. At the 67th session held on 13 May 2014, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed a proposal to show confidence in the Master of Science, Boris Lalovac, to perform the duties of the Minister of Finance, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, acting on 06 May 2014. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed that proposal on the basis of provision 119, paragraph 6. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority of votes, 9 for and 1 against supporting the decision to show confidence in the Master of Science Boris Lalovec for his duties as Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78118	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Now, please, let's be clear about the Prime Minister's proposal by raising your hand. Who's in favor of a trust proposal? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 10 abstentions have been expressed confidence in Boris Lalovec for his role as finance minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia. Now we'd move on to making an oath. The oath is given in a way that the president or chairman of the Croatian Parliament utters the text of the oath, and the respected Lalovac rises and pronounces my oath. The text of the oath reads: I swear that I will exercise consciously and honorably, respect the Constitution, law and legal order and advocate all progress of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78119	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-14-0.u78120	Thank you very much for your oath. Congratulations. ... I congratulate you once again, your trust is binding on you as well as your oath. [[Applause.]] I wish you success to us together with you and the entire government of the Republic of Croatia. I hope it gets more and more successful. That's what we planned to do for today. I ask the presidents of the Board of Labour bodies of the Croatian Parliament to hold a session and discuss proposals of laws and acts that are on the agenda, and tomorrow we will see you at 9.30 p.m. and start with the third item of the agenda of the draft law on regulation of the rail market, with the final proposal of the law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 655. I'll see you tomorrow. Thank you. If the public's curiosity is over, the media... All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear fellow MPs, distinguished colleagues continue at the plenary session of the 13th session of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues allow me today May 15th to mark the mention, the Day mentions Croatian victims in the fight for freedom and independence of the Republic of Croatia. I invite you honourable MPs and respected MPs to pay tribute to all victims for the freedom and independence of the Republic of Croatia for a minute of silence. - A moment of silence - May it be their eternal glory and thank you!
