ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87365	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At its 35th session, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament set out the following draft decisions: 1st Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and selection of a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. - A member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament Petar Baranovic is dismissed. 2. Boris Blažeković is elected member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87366	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I conclude that unanimously with 103 votes for the proposed decision. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87367	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Croatians outside the Croatian Parliament. 1. Dubravko Bilić is elected member of the Croatian Committee outside the Croatian Parliament. On 2nd day of 11th September 2014, the member of the Committee on Croatians outside the Croatian Parliament stopped acting Mr. Zoran Vasic for stopping acting as a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87368	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find it unanimous with 104 votes for the proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87369	Thank you. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee for the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the Croatian Parliament. 1. Karolina Leaković is elected as a member of the Committee for the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the Croatian Parliament. On 2nd of September 2014, a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting. Zoran Vasic for stopping acting as a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87370	I'm opening a debate. No reports? I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find it unanimous with 104 votes for the proposed decision. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87371	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members, the selection of members and the termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament. 1. A member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament, Petar Baranovic, is hereby authorised. 2. Tomislav Žagar and Vanja Posavac are elected for members of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament. On 3rd day of 11th September 2014, a member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting. Zoran Vasic for stopping acting as a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87372	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find it unanimous with 104 votes for the proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87373	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members, the election of members and the termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament. 1. A member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament, Petar Baranovic, is hereby dismissed. 2. Marijan Skuric, Franco Vidovic, is elected as members of the EU Regional Development and Fund Committee of the Croatian Parliament. On 3 September 2014, the member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament ceased to act. Zoran Vasic for stopping acting as a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87374	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find it unanimous with 104 votes for the proposed decision. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87375	Thank you. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the National Council for Water. 1. A member of the National Council for Water from the ranks of MP Petar Baranovic is dismissed. 2. as a member of the National Council for Water is appointed from the ranks of MP Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87376	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find it unanimous with 104 votes for the proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87377	Proposal for a Decision on discharge and selection of members of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency. 1. A member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Parliament Igor Radjanović is hereby dismissed. 2. Ivo Jelusic is elected member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87378	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 104 votes for the proposed decision. And the last one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87379	Proposal for a Decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Stocker's Board. 1. A member of the Committee on Stocks from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Parliament Igor Radjenović shall be dismissed. 2. Saša Đujic is elected member of the Council for Stocks from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87380	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'd like to make a statement about the proposed decision. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 104 votes. Congratulations to my colleagues and colleagues for the election, I wish them success in their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87381	I now ask the selection and appointments, I would like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Assembly of Honored counterpart Shim Lucin to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87382	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament set out the following proposals for decisions at the 36th session held on 15 October. The first decision is a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. 1. A member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament Branko Vukšić is hereby dismissed. 1. Zlatko Tušak is elected member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87383	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I find that the proposed decision has been made by a majority of 112 votes in favour, with one abstention and one vote against. Number two decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87384	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. 1. A member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament Branko Vukšić is hereby dismissed. 1. Nenad Dance is elected as a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87385	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most of the votes, 108 votes in favour, one abstention, and two against the proposed decision. Please decide number three.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87386	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of the president of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament. 1. The chairman of the Committee for Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament Branko Vukšić is hereby dismissed. 1. Mladen Novak is elected president of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87387	I am opening a debate on the Proposal for a Decision of the Committee on Appointment. Is there? Dear Representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87388	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. So far in the practice of the Croatian Parliament was not very likely, it was not a practice to talk about such situations. But this is about an example that really hits every smart guy's head without getting tangled personally. What happens is that parliamentary representatives who have gone beyond certain control of individual party powers or individual options and parties are marginalized in the work of the Croatian Parliament and put them in a position to get kicked out of all committees is a scandal for themselves. But when a decision is made to move the man who spent his life in journalism and who is absolutely professional and invited to participate in the work of such a committee only because he is no longer an integral part of the political party. Then we come into a situation that is worrying, which is that we put political accounts, the settlement of accounts among politicians ahead of expertise and knowledge, and thus we send a message to the Croatian public that we have a party in front of quality and responsible work and during the meetings and in the work of the committees themselves in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, on behalf of the People's Party, I protest against such practices and call for us to rise above politics in the future, above partying and to start acting responsibly and professionally as parliamentary representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87389	Thank you very much. Are there any more interested? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the committee's proposed decision. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes, 101 votes in favour, 9 abstentions and 5 against, we have made a decision in the text as proposed by the Proposer, or the Committee on Elections and Appoints. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87390	Thank you. Proposal for a Decision on the resolution and election of the Head of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation. 1. The head of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation Branko Vuksic is being resolved. 2. Dragutin Lesar is elected head of Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87391	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the proposed decision. The result? I find that we have made the proposed decision by majority vote, 106 for, 5 abstentions and 3 against in the text as proposed by the Committee. That's when we're done voting for today. Thank you very much. Congratulations to the chosen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87392	And now we're gonna cut back on the debate as it was last night. - Proposal for a decision on a spatial plan of the Park of Nature Žumberak – Samoborsko Gorje. The motion for a decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of this Decision. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. Please, if you're leaving the hall, is it necessary to give a shorter break? On behalf of the Proposer, the proposal for a decision will be explained by the Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Mrs Anka Mrak Taritas. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87393	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us a proposal for a decision on the establishment of the Space Plan of Nature Park Žumberak-Samoborsko gorje. Should I wait for them to come out? ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87394	My colleagues and colleagues, if you intend to go out in silence, and if you intend to listen, then sit in the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87395	Thank you very much. So, before us is the Space Plan of Nature Park Žumberak-Samoborsko gorje. It's a park of nature that was declared such in 1999. In 2001 it was started with the creation of this spatial plan and it was in various stages until 2013, in 2013 we completed the last previous debate and in late 2013 launched a public debate on this spatial plan, collected all the consent that was needed and here it lies in front of this distinguished home for consideration and adoption. It is a spatial plan, i.e. a space that covers the area, so it is partly in the area of the Karlova County and is mostly in Zagreb County. Characterise two big peaks, one top of Žumberačka gora, is the biggest peak of Žumberačka up, which is St. Gera and the biggest peak of Samoborsko gora Japetić. It is about that in the area of 333 square kilometers as far as this spatial plan of the Park of Nature Žumberak-Samoborsko gora is concerned, there are 132 settlements. However, it shows a number of historical indicators that suggest that by the end of the 19th century more than 16,000 inhabitants lived in this area while today there are 3,300 inhabitants. When little work is done and analyzes the existing housing fund, i.e. existing buildings that are intended for housing more than 35% of these buildings are not intended for permanent housing but for occasional housing. However, it is an interesting space, an area that is interesting with all its aspects not only of natural and cultural heritage. When it comes to the division of space and when it comes to demarcation by degree of protection, then we have three degrees of protection. The first degree of protection is strict protection and from an opportunity of 0.21% of the nature park area refers to this strict protection which is equally divided into two degrees A and B. A is that area where a really very controlled arrival can also be for scientific research purposes only, B is some opening area, but it is not open to visitors. In particular, there is a secondary forest angle, special forest vegetation reserves, the original part of the Slapnica stream and all geolocalities and fossil sites and rare rocks. Zone B is an active protection zone, 89.71% of the area of nature park and it is a zone in which visiting is allowed, use for sport, recreation but is absolutely under strict activity and supervision of the area carried out by a public institution. And the third zone, that's the use zone, so the area that's intended for settlements, for infrastructure, and that's 10.08% of the park area. When it comes to cultural heritage, there are 57 objects that are protected in the area of nature park, and on July 25, 2013 a solution was made for putting under the preventive protection of the cultural landscape Žumberak-Samoborsko gorje, Plješićko goraje. A little bit about the activities and what's going on and what can happen in the area of nature park. First and foremost are settlements, so there is no possibility of expanding the settlement, there is no possibility of expanding the construction areas, but within these settlements we have the possibility of building housing, reconstruction of existing buildings, certain economic activities. Then, when it comes to catering and tourism, as well as existing mountaineering homes can be reconstructed, they can be brought to a better purpose and are also provided for areas intended for hospitality, i.e. for tourism. It is extremely important in this area that walking paths, so it does everything that is the function of the nature park, which means that it is visited and that it has its educational role, educational importance. Inside, i.e. the area of the nature park is intended for the entrance of 6 entrances, each entrance includes a parking area, especially for the parking of tourist buses. I'm making a special emphasis on two topics. One topic is high-water protection. So, despite the fact that in the area of nature park we do not have some high water that could cause a problem by increasing, but each area, or every part of Croatia, especially characterizes this part where you have worse, there is also a large pooling of water that can cause devastations in space, so a special emphasis is made on the reconstruction of existing retentions and the construction of new retentions for the simple reason that these retention areas, which are very often natural features, are allowed to collect these high waters. And what's equally important is the exploitation of mineral raw materials. In the area of nature park, there is now an exploitation field that can work as long as it has its concession and it cannot be expanded and of course it will not be able to get some new concession. However, just as in the area of Žumberak Nature Park, there are remains of the former exploitation fields, so some 40, 50 years ago in these areas for our construction purposes, so-called "Builds". Loans. These loans were taken from the material needed, so it was stone or processed into gravel, and these loans remained as a cancer wound, i.e. devastion in space. There are 16 in the area of Žumberak Nature Park, Samoborsko gorje and this spatial plan is detailed what and how should happen to them in the future. Some of it already nature has done,... it does resuscitate, but on some of these loans it will also be necessary to do a recovery, so where a man should do some activities in that part. It is about a very interesting space, a space that... of its natural characteristics and these characteristics that are from the protection and from the aspect of cultural heritage and have importance in '99. the year declared nature park and here, we have the possibility indeed for the first time after one, however, long procedures also bring a spatial plan for the area. After the Croatian Parliament has considered and hoped and adopted this spatial plan, we will have four more areas in Croatia that are nature parks, which are not covered by spatial planning documentation, but this is the same in the high stage of completion and I hope that we will have another spatial plan next year. Namely, you have the opportunity to see for yourself that the pace we somehow set is that at least every year a spatial plan, or one space that is in high protection from the aspect of natural protection, so national parks and nature parks to get their own spatial plan. This year, here, this is already the third spatial plan because we've accelerated a little bit, but really some sort of... of a spatial plan a year would be absolutely acceptable and we'll try to make it so. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87396	Thank you. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? Yeah. Here you go. Hello, Ronko, on behalf of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87397	Dear Vice President, Minister, Director, colleagues and colleagues. So, at its 35th session on 24 September this year, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed and discussed the proposal to adopt a spatial plan of the Park of Nature Žumberak, Samoborsko Gorje, and this as a parent body. So, the area of the park, which is occupied by 333 square kilometers, is located in the western part of the Republic of Croatia, along the Slovenian border with most of the Zagreb County area, less in the Karlovačka area, with all its features, 132 settlements, increasing population and 35% of the already resident units serve mainly for occasional housing. Furthermore, the plan in question has passed and this is particularly interesting, it has passed 4 previous discussions, so in 2004, 2006, 2007, 2013 and passed a public debate from December 2013 to January 2014. In this period, about 180 remarks were noted, of which 70% were respected, and of these 70% in full, 30% in part. So, the nature park that also contains an active protection zone of 89%, a strict protection of 0.21% and a 10.8% area of use. This committee adopted such a bill and expressed its view on the recent adoption of the Zumberak Nature Park's spatial plan, Samoborsko Gorje precisely for the reason that this multiannual process of carrying out previous discussions has been delayed and we believe that it is very necessary to respect the fact that space is located in the area of two counties and respects the needs of the population so that their interests can be brought into line with the protection of the landscape and the activities of that population. And what the board has raised as a question and considers it necessary to discuss it at this session is the categorization of the part of the road in the state road because, in our opinion, it is contrary to the principles of nature protection in Natura 2000. At its session, however, the Committee made a proposal to make a decision on the adoption of the Spatial Nature Park Plan Žumberak Samoborsko Gorje and unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87398	Thank you, colleague Ronko. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the HNS club, the esteemed Ivica Mandic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87399	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the debate on the Space Plan of Nature Park Žumberak Samoborsko Gorje, I would say that the ministry headed by the minister is doing this job on the protection of these very valuable natural resources of the Republic of Croatia in the best possible way and we would like to have done it by the end of the term and other parks of nature and national parks for which we have not brought a spatial arrangement to complete it. Here at the beginning I would say several basic characteristics about the declaration of the Nature Park Žumberak Samoborsko Gorje that it was done by Parliament in 1990 in the 5th month that a public nature park was already established in the 9th month. With this spatial plan, we want to protect all the protracted values in which the ecological characteristics and national and international characteristics are particularly highlighted, that this landscape is in its shape and in its view very beautiful and that there are a very large number of plant and animal species in that area, that this valuable landscape should also be used in a cultural and historical, touristic, recreational way. This nature park covers 333 km square and it has a basic goal of protecting and promoting the natural and cultural beauty and value of this region. What is particularly important and should be emphasized that this nature park essentially meets several areas of Dinar, Alpine and Pannonian and this nature park is a transition from these to each other and third for these reasons this nature park has a special meaning. Nature park stretches at altitudes from 400 to 700 meters above sea level and we can say that this area eventually loses a large number of inhabitants, that there are 132 settlements and 3 cities in this area, but it is important to note that those settlements that are not cities that 35% of the housing units serve exclusively for temporary housing. What might improve the image of going back to these premises is what the promoter suggests and suggests that the former county road 3297 passing through this nature park to put itself in the road of higher order in the state road and communication, and possibly a better apartment. Although we have discussed this problem on the board, we should also respect the profession that this has suggested, and I don't think it will significantly disrupt this nature park. What is most important in this planning document of the spatial arrangement of this space is that it passed a long public debate in 2004, 2006, 2007 and the final debate was in 2013, meaning one democratic procedure in which they could make all their proposals and I will continue to commend some of the specific features of this spatial plan later on. So the final public debate on this document that we are discussing was held from 6.12.2013 to 7.1.2014 and this plan was on display in Zagreb and the city of Ozlja. This spatial plan proposed 47 submissions or 180 indications of which 94 were accepted, 34 partially and 52 proposals were not accepted. What this plan includes is that it includes similar categorization as we categorized both in other nature parks and national parks the strict protection zone of 0.21% of this space or 0.71 km square, active protection zone 89.71% or 307 km square and use zone of 10.08% or 34.52 km square. What should certainly be noted is that in this park of nature there are over a thousand plant species from which they are particularly protected, then there are rich forests which are rich in oak and prey in the lower regions, and in the higher areas oak medunac and black predators. While at altitudes above 500 meters we have beech forests. What is also important to note is that this spatial plan accurately emphasizes in Article 140 where the names are listed by all those plant and animal species that are particularly endangered. I think it's certainly good and very educational. In addition to the species of the forest we have over 377 species of mushrooms, 79 of the lilies and of the fauna we have here from the great beasts of the brown bear, the wolf, then several species of snake, the lizard. And particularly important are unexplored living beings living underground in the Karst caves, and it is also time to examine it. Here, when we talk about fauna, we come up with a segment that can be tied to the economy in terms of fishing because this area is also rich in water and that are very high-quality. In the area of nature park it includes two counties, the county of Zagrebačka and the county of Karlovačka and of the towns we have Samobor, Jastrebarsko and Ozalj and 132 settlements. What is also very good in this spatial plan is that the development possibilities of settlements are planned and that they are possible and that they are divided into three categories: settlements for spatial development up to 5 hectares, settlements from 5 hectares to 10 hectares and settlements of more than 10 hectares. Article 3 of this spatial plan sets out perfectly why we are bringing this spatial plan and Article 7 speaks precisely about the purpose of these spaces. What is important is that this spatial plan, that the forests are divided into three categories: the economic forests, the protection forests and the forests of a special purpose. The same type of categorization was made at ground level. Especially valuable, farmland, other farmland and other agricultural land and forest land. What should be paid particular attention to is the lack of population and the small number of use of pasture surfaces that, as in other nature parks, we have an unplanned expansion of the forest. This is a problem that needs to be addressed, and I think that the public institution that will have this document as a task must take special care of this problem. Also because of very large sites and source sites, these wells must be kept special care and should be kept especially in the construction and roads and the maintenance of roads, this is also regulated by Article 50. What is related to the economy is certainly important mountainous homes located at altitudes of 400 to 700 meters and with a total of 295 beds. Also the opportunities and capacities of hunting homes which are located in this area in the area of nature park 10. What is important is that with this document and the spatial plan of the Park of Nature Žumberak, Samoborsko Gorje has received a document allowing further development and opportunities for economic use within the nature park. Because the nature park will have value if we combine the possibilities of living in them and the development of economic activities. This spatial plan provides an opportunity for the sustainable and development and sustainable prosperity of this nature park, which is close to the city of Zagreb and is its value. We believe that with the state road, the former County will contribute to bringing this space back to life and being used. Thank you very much. The club will support the proposal for a nature park plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87400	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club, the respected Zlatko Tušak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87401	Thank you, Vice President, dear ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. The Park of Nature Žumberak, Samoborsko Gorje is only 30 kilometers from Zagreb and the Proposal for a Decision on the Making of the Space Plan Žumberak is very important because it is a park of nature which is one of the 11 nature parks in Croatia and we have eight other national parks and these are the beautyes that absolutely grace this country. We can see that the proponent stated in the explanation that the public debate on the adoption of a spatial plan lasted from 6. 12. 2013 to 7. 1. 2014 I will sort of repeat myself here with the predecessor around certain data where it was presented that 47 submissions with 180 obviouss were accepted 94, 34 partially, while 52 were rejected, and within that it would be good to mention the more important things that were rejected and why they were rejected. The area of nature park is 333 km2, previously said to have 132 settlements in the area with some 3300 inhabitants, but it is very important to say that it is constantly populated somewhere smaller and is about 2200 inhabitants, which is really a small number for such an area. So it turns out that somewhere around 7 residents are per square mile of that space. The park includes parts of Zagreb County and Karlovac County. Within the Zagreb County is within the municipality of Žumberak and parts of the municipality of Klinča village and Krasić and the areas of the towns Samobor and Jastrebarsko. Within the framework of the carlova County, there is much less, it covers only the territory of the city of Ozlja. The borders of Park Žumberak and Samoborsko Gorje are located along the border of the Republic of Croatia and this area of Nature Park was declared on 28 May 1999. The highest peak of what was spoken about was St. Gera with 1178 meters, while in Žumberk the highest peak of Japetić with 879 meters. What needs to be said specifically for these peaks, especially Saint Gera, is that there is still a disputed area of demarcation between Croatia and Slovenia regarding the border and that part we believe will be dealt with positively about Croatia. The area is rich, according to some data there are 337 sources, about 260 streams, several waterfalls, a lot of caves, caves and what should be indicated, that there is also a Jazovka pit in the area with crimes committed during World War II and before World War II. The existing purpose of the surface is only 1.8% of what the minister spoke of and has only 623 hectares. Transports are covered by 0.5%, waterways with 0.4%, while forests are mostly represented by 60.5% and the rest is 36.8%. The rest are orchards, meadows, pastures, vineyards, and ornaments. We see from this that the area is the most covered by forest, primarily with beech and oak. Nature park and what the minister said is particularly important in the part where she serves for recreation and excursion and it is abundant with a lot of walking paths, somewhere around 347 km is marked mountain trails. There are also cycling trails with a total length of about 300 km and what adorns it, which is an area that has mountainous facilities with about 280 beds for a stay. What should be said in particular in this section, that all activities taking place in the park should have the characteristics of belonging to this space in order to preserve that space, not to devast what the minister said. And I am particularly glad that she pointed out that after the end of this concession she will not be allowed any further, and no further expansion will be allowed, the violation of this space because it is particularly rich with flora and fauna that should be protected and preserved in any case. What should be said is that the importance of this part of the space must contribute to improved living conditions because we see from this that there are very many uninhabited objects and most of it is here and said so in that part should keep the existing population alive and working in that area, but clearly that opening up and spaces, the possibility of moving others into that area, because in this way it will be important to take care of that area. And what is important for the development and preservation of the park should be activities, especially tourism, forest, agricultural, livestock, wartime, processing and production, catering and based on small family economies, and cannot be used for other activities. In particular, rural tourism can play a very important role in this area. A special area has its long history, has many sights, and therefore I think it is very good to keep it fully protected. Something that might have to be said here, I don't know if the minister has such information, whether a legalisation claim has been filed in that area, how many such requirements there are, which would be very important to indicate about the protected area, what kind of situation individual facilities in the area are in. And what I end up with, and that was also the question and the committees that warned about Article 156, it is important that this part of the non-abuse in nature park and what was given the possibility that detailed plans of cities and municipalities should be prescribed is the important thing that these plans do not disrupt this part of the area and that the beauty of this area be not threatened, that certain uncontrollable construction should not occur. And it is important to have feelings for these beauties in Croatia, and especially for such parks and Croatian Labourists will support this plan because they think that he is in favour of this area with this note that we still need to take care of these detailed plans so that there is no breach of this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87402	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club will speak for a respected colleague, Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87403	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished Madam Minister with the co-worker. Of course, the proposal for a decision on the establishment of the Spacious Nature Park Žumberak Samoborsko Gorje club will accept. I would say that when we look at the EU, the entire Croatian Nature Park is, and perhaps in that sense, we should think about it. The scented branch of the entire, therefore 500 million inhabitants of the EU, a state that has 4 million and 290 000, and on every square metre of space is in fact in a sense a park of nature with a wide variety as they say biodiversity and all other features that one area has. What to say about the legal proposal itself, i.e. the decision to make the Spatial Nature Park Plan. Already, colleagues have said statistics, facts, etc. But I would particularly refer to the fact that Žumberak and Samoborska Gorje is the westernmost part of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. this central part, that on average, there is an average area of the forest more than the rest of the Republic of Croatia, that the highest degree of depopulation of all regions in the Republic of Croatia is best said by your own fact that at the end of the century or early 20th century there were 16000 inhabitants, that now barely 3000, that 30% of the objects, so the house is actually just a weekend type, in which no one lives. But what concerns me especially, and what makes this material seem blind to the problems that exist there. Apart from this depopulation, and the population that exists and whose average age may be over or around 60 years. So, those of us who bring this spatial plan to whom now? In 10, 15, 20 years, I'm afraid this area will completely relax. I'm talking about human resources. I am therefore surprised that Article 3 of this Plan contains space editing, and it is only in paragraph 15 that the depopulation trend is stopped, subject to the improvement of living conditions and population standards of the park. I'd like that to be the first item of it, those goals of editing space. Because really, if we don't approach everyone in haste, all of this is written, and if it stays on paper alone, then really in 10, 20 years, we won't have almost any inhabitants in the Zumberk area. The people who are here, say Jastrebarski's medical teams, the Wine Town Hospital, etc., know best. who often go there with their cars and know what it all looks like. But the other problem is that you put it here in the material under the name of the 17th tour or t4 so called: Eco Village Žumberak in Koretići, Rural tourism "Beautiful hill Žumberak" in Pećno, Ostrc, Veliki Dol, Japetić, Poljanice and Saint Gera. St. Gera who is not actually in Croatian sovereign space. It is still an unresolved border dispute and I would not have easily gone over the fact that we do not actually manage St. Gero, that there is still a Slovenian army, although we are both in the EU, that there is a seat there, that is to say, an information and listening Slovenian secret service called SOVA, that Saint Gera is more famous to the wider Croatian public by this dispute, a border dispute that has not been resolved, and the hikers know that it is an interesting mountain with 2 names. So as the Slovenians say, about the highest peak of this area of 1178 meters, that anyone has 2 churches, 1 TV transmitter and 1 geodetic pyramid and 1 building in which the Slovenian army is located, and should be the mountaineering home of the Croatian mountaineering alliance in which you, in that home, should come Croatian hikers, so when they come there, I guess with the Slovenian army there will be, staying, sleeping or I don't know what. I don't know which way you count, so when a specific plan, program, law, whatever you want, if the border dispute isn't settled. Furthermore, the introduction of this proposal reads on page three down at the bottom that within the park it is possible to carry out the following economic activities and writes: agriculture, hence traditional livestock, warfare, vegetables, fruit growing, vineyarding, trade, craftsmanship, tourism. Now, in parentheses, rural and eco tourism and religious tourism. And eco tourism and religious tourism. Nowhere else in the text I find that, at least that's how I didn't see maybe I'm wrong, religious tourism. What does religious tourism mean, and where is this religious tourism being conducted? And what was deliberately or intentionally forgotten, and the colleague also said very discreetly, that perhaps it was historical tourism, so one form that also exists. I don't know how to pronounce it exactly, but I would say "Soshica" every year, so it's visited by a large number, thousands of people, and so it's a mass, etc. So, she's not mentioned anywhere in the material, she's gone. I don't want to say that this is something ideological, etc., there are no ideologies in the victims that hundreds or thousands were thrown into that cave of Jazovka, so we won't mention now that they are victims of the communist regime. Here in this spatial plan I should simply have said in this sense some tourism find a place and this – historical tourism. Let our children, let our youth, let our people come and visit this place and know where they are thrown and where the bones of many Croatian patriots rest. I said that the HDSSB club will be for this legislative proposal because it is very precise except for this St. Gera and Jazovka organizes a whole series of aspects of life and infrastructure in this area, which has been abandoned by all Croatian governments for decades and since the former state of Yugoslavia. It's just been abandoned, left to tell the tooth of dying, the tooth of time. It's just faith and hope in this neighborhood that's actually made up of so-called. the spine of Croatia. So, the union of southern and northern Croatia, so close to that EU and until we were not yet, so far the western part of the Republic of Croatia, so close to Zagreb, so close to Croatia's metropolis, which is how I say to others developed, and only 20 km away from Zagreb we have this condition as it is now. It's sad and embarrassing for all the governments of the Republic of Croatia that it's really not a concern. And then when we talk there about the Plešivik Mountain, about vineyards and vineyarding, then we know all kinds of jokes and all that. And what else is there for humans? If at least some people drink wine at least they pay VAT on that drunk wine and help the state. But how does the state help these people? There used to be some kind of Solidarity Fund in one of the former states, and then those areas that were weaker in terms of financial framework and state were helped. Today, that solidarity seems to be gone. Here, God forbid this decision to make a spatial plan of the Park of Nature Žumberak-Somborsko Gorje helps in all those segments that you listed in Article 3, so the goals of editing space. So these are the preservation and protection of natural values, preservation of landscape diversity, georaznolicity, cultural values, traditional... settlements, diversity of space, quality of availability, protection and conservation of soils etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But first of all, I would like to see the results of this implementation of this spatial nature park plan, Žumberak-Somborsko Gorje, reflected on this 15th paragraph or 15th point of the target, which is to stop the depopulation trend of improving living conditions and standards for the population of the park, and it should also say employment of people in the area. Because without employment, we won't stop anything. We have a strong flow of young people and a very, very old population, which if it stays that way for 20 years it won't have a population at all. About this problem with Slovenia I know that you may not be responsible as a minister but that 22 years after the independence of the Croatian state and Croatian independence we still have an unresolved problem, and we declare nature park with such a problem the border cannot remain undetected. So I put that problem out, and here's what you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87404	Thank you, too. On behalf of HDZ Representative Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87405	Dear Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary with an associate, a respected colleague and colleague. The HDZ Club will support the proposal for a spatial plan of the area of special features for reasons because each of the nature parks in the Republic of Croatia, national parks are good to have a adopted, adopted spatial plan of the area of special features. The more this plan and its adoption has been brought in for a long time. Practically, the adoption of the plan itself began in 2004 and well if the ministry had ended there, I would say a long-standing ribbon and a number of discussions and activities on the adoption of a spatial plan. The spatial plan of the area of special features for either the national park, whether for the nature park is not only a function of nature protection, is not only a function of preserving landscapes and landscapes but the function and purpose of the spatial plan of special features to enable economic activities through this basic function, fostering economic development with clear compliance with the basic purpose for which the area itself is protected. I therefore believe that it is good that this plan is adopted and that, together with the spatial plan, this public constitutional governance plan is also adopted, in this case in the Park of Nature Žumberak-Somborsko Gorje. Since we have 8 national parks in Croatia and are now covered by spatial plans of the area of special features, which is good, in this way these most valuable Croatian natural resources, at least as far as legislative regulations are concerned, but from 11 nature parks we have brought 6 spatial plans, this is 7, there are 4 left to me, the Lastovo area, Velebit, Papuk, Biokovo and Velebit, I said. So this is also one of the challenges for the ministry to bring other spatial plans to the area of special features. This spatial plan, which we will adopt, was adopted, I would say in an interregnum in which it is adopted under the old Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, but the new Law on Spatial Planning, which was adopted last year, allows the Croatian Parliament to adopt it in the form of both procedures and procedures defined by the law on spatial planning and construction. So it seems to me that precisely because of the fact that this plan was started under the old provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, and we are making it at a time when the new Law on Spatial Planning is in force in a certain way mixed certain provisions prescribed by the old law and by a part of those who have passed the new law. I must say that the impression, that was also on the committees, that the plan was quite principled and that it was expected from such a document adopted by the Croatian Parliament and which is under the special passage and patronage of the ministry, that it had to go to some more concrete solutions when it comes to the protection of that space and the post-admissions in the Croatian Assembly of this spatial plan of the area of special features. On the one hand, this is reflected in the fact that, if I am not mistaken, all the spatial plans of the area of specific characteristics in its provisions included the obligation to establish, in a particular space which is of particular interest, the creation of detailed plans, in fact, urban planning of the arrangement. So we brought before the summer break, Mrs. Minister, for example, a spatial plan of the area of special features for the Medvednica Nature Park, and then you exposed it with both right and defense, although it was also our side of the remark that the adoption of urban plans would be lifted to the state level for certain areas of this nature park. Why I mention it, I mention it for the reason that in this Park of Nature Medvednica it is prescribed whether to bring urban planning arrangements which, with this proposal, is not the case with this spatial plan. So, with this spatial plan, Article 156, we say that this plan will not presuppose the adoption of urban planning arrangements, but will leave that need to units of local self-government to define the need and purpose of their spatial planning, the need to adopt spatial plans or urban planning. This is not good, on the one hand, because if this plan were to determine the need to adopt urban planning arrangements, then, above the area for which it is intended, it would be entirely limited and possible to build until it is adopted... and I think when we talk about such valuable spaces in the Republic of Croatia that then this Parliament, or the Ministry, or the Government that is the Proposer, should have determined what places they should necessarily be in the event of enlargement, in the event of any projects being allowed and the implementation of the project that should have been adopted today by the Croatian Parliament as exactly the prescribed spaces where possible, where possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this regard, the public institution has also made a serious observation, at least in my view where it says that leaving plans for the lower order, fixing and areas of possible expansion of the settlement, non-defined areas for mountaineering and hunting homes, and family farms with restrictions on the use of the zone and landscape could have a significant negative impact on the fundamental feature of the park. I agree with that, and I believe that it was really better that you set out with this plan the areas where we will bring in more detailed plans and then clearly, in addition to that, to specify which specific guidelines to be led, when these plans are adopted. The second thing is true and it has already been said before me, that there has indeed been a significant depopulation of the population, that it seems to me in the last 40 years 4 times less inhabitants in that area than before and that it is necessary to enable areas where construction is possible, expansion of construction areas, etc., etc. But the question of whether this plan should have been better considered, to determine the fact that, up to now, 35% of unbuilt building land in the nature park area is now better explained when there will be a possible expansion of the construction area in protected areas of nature, such as in this case Žumberak Nature Park, the Samobor Mountain. What seems to me also to have arisen as an oversight, is that in a cartographic display that follows this spatial plan of discrepancies between the graphic and text parts, namely on the Ministry's pages when you try, although it is a very small scale, it is not possible... to recognize, but when you look at this cartographic depiction in which the zones of settlement are still standing, the obligation to make 8 urban plans of the arrangement, which was timely in the draft of the plan, which was then abandoned, but it is still on the cartographic depictions that remained the obligation to make 8..., and Article 156 is said that this plan does not establish the obligation to draw up more detailed plans which is inconsistencies, I do not know how it happened, perhaps later the Minister tells us. The second thing, when a certain spatial plan is adopted and if we have determined by a spatial plan the entire water economic system, the energy system, the mail system and electronic communications system, then it is an obligation to act on these infrastructure projects. One formulation that says that the spatial plans of the narrow areas can be deviated from what has been resolved by this plan if the rational solutions are offered is not good, I must say, I have not heard of such a provision, but if a rational approach is established that something needs to be changed, then the plan is changed, and not the solutions that will not be in line with the plan and will permanently deviate from the plan itself. So, if there are solutions that need to be changed, then the plan needs to be changed, not that the plan remains the way it is, and then, later, by building permits or by realising certain projects, we should step down from the plan and accept it. In addition, since this may be an excuse, the fact is that the plan began to operate a long time ago is also a provision in Article 153(1) which says that the implementation and development of those measures will be implemented through the programme of measures to improve the situation in space. The programme of improving measures to improve the situation in space no longer exists as a commitment in the context of spatial planning... regulatory spatial planning in Croatia, it is a long-standing amendment of the law, I don't remember exactly which year, it seems to me in 2009, I'm not sure, it gave up. It is now the obligation of the units of local self-government and other and counties, etc., and the Croatian Parliament to bring a report on the state of the space, and at the end of this report, guidelines can be prescribed as well as how to further improve the space. Therefore, such a formulation which, in Article 153, is simply not an actual report, i.e. a programme of measures to improve the situation in space no longer exists, therefore as a need, as a unit of local self-government and as a need and obligation of the county, so I do not see why such a formulation would be within the law. I guess that's because this law, this plan, has been done for many years, and in the meantime the law has been changed, but it's left like, it's still here in the text section itself. So, to conclude, it's good to come up with a plan. I think this plan is better than it's gone. He has certain shortcomings which he himself has expressed, and I believe that the proposer should never have deviated from the need for this plan to solve certain areas of particular interest and where it is possible to make more detailed plans, to list, to establish, to provide for them basic guidelines on how these plans will look, rather than to leave it entirely to the units of local self-government. I am one of those who I hold is that it takes days to centralize the management of the space and the spatial arrangement, you know very well, but when it comes to national parks, nature parks, then the ministry is what will be left to pass these plans to local self-government units, but it is important elements of space protection, especially nature parks, and not to speak national parks still the scissors must be in the hands of the ministry, in the hands of the central government and prescribe where something can be, where it can't, or if it can be, to what extent it can be. I therefore believe that, although measures are here in this spatial plan of the area of specific features, they should have taken a step further, prescribing the need for even more detailed plans, i.e.... and specify what these and to what extent could be happening in that space through the adoption of such plans. Here, however, I am speaking, we will at the club support this proposal for a decision that adopts, adopts the law, that is, the spatial plan of the area of special features, in this case of the Park of Nature Žumberak, Samoborsko Gorje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87406	Thank you, too. We're moving on to a single hearing of Mirela Holly, she's gone, she's losing her right to debate. Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87407	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with an associate. The very proposal for a decision on a spatial plan was addressed by an excellent minister, I support that, my colleague on behalf of the Ivica Mandic club also supports it. And I'd go into my own debate with a few claims that I think are important to all of us. First, the beauty of nature and biodiversity in Croatia that it is the most beautiful gift that we, as citizens of Croatia, could get by birth and they make our lives much more beautiful and the conditions of life much better. Secondly, the beauty of the Croatian environment is an integral part of the personal identity of every Croatian citizen or citizen and therefore its value is simply immeasurable, beauty of nature and biodiversity make Croatia one of the most beautiful countries in the world. Preserving the beauty of the nature of biodiversity in Croatia are Croatia's chance to view and change the paradigm of development towards green technologies, healthy food, clean industries. Beautys of the nature of biodiversity must not be seen exclusively through the eyes of increasing the number of tourists and developing the tourism economy, protecting, preserving, relativeizing biodiversity and natural beauty must be primarily for the purpose of raising the quality of life of the citizens of Croatia and of our descendants. However, tourism is not and must not be the priority branch of making Croatia, it is only God-day of a branch of conjugality, which is only a cream on a cake of a successful economy, but it is another topic. Thanks to... thanks to the long-standing abandonment, underdevelopment, unclean industries, devastation activities Croatia today has an enviable level of protected environment and biodiversity conservation especially in Europe. However, despite some Croatian areas, our human intervention has been dramatically devastated and urgent uncompromising actions are needed to save them. Croatia, unfortunately for certain objective and subjective reasons, still does not seem enough to systematically and fully protect its natural beauty and even in national parks, nature parks, let alone in unprotected areas. And by entering Croatia into the EU, we have been given an additional opportunity and a chance to protect our environment, natural and cultural beauty and biodiversity more successfully and to develop those industries that are sustainable and that will benefit us from environmental protection. In addition to all this, it is not a waste to repeat that we have 8 national parks, 11 nature parks and 2 strict reserves and these are to repeat the National Parks Brijuni, Kornati, Krka, Mljet, Paklenica, Plitvice Lakes, Risnjak and North Velebit. Nature parks are Nature park Biokovo, Kopački ass, Lonjsko polje, Medvednica, Papuk, Telaščica, Velebit, Vransko lake, Učka, Žumberak Samoborsko goraje, Lastovo islet. And the strict reserves are Hajdukki and Rozanski hips and White and Samarska rock. Only Croatian national parks cover about a million square kilometers of Croatian surface area, which is over 1% of the total area of the Republic of Croatia. Total protected areas consist of 8.7 surface areas of the Republic of Croatia. National parks and nature parks are distributed throughout Croatia from Slavonia via central Croatia to Istria and Primorje, like, and central and southern Dalmatia. A number of other unprotected areas of Croatia are also highlighted by endemic species, biodiversity, unique natural phenomena. Nature's Park is an area of natural beauty in which human activities are allowed, but without disrupting the harmony of nature. Nature Park is defined in Article 13. The Act on the Protection of Nature of the Republic of Croatia, either spatially or naturally cultured area of land and or sea with the ecological characteristics of international or national importance, with a prominent landscape, educational and cultural and historical and tourist recreation values. West of Zagreb there is the Park of Nature Žumberak Samoborsko gora, it stands out by breaking phenomena, atypical for spaces along the Panon Valley, deep canyons, clear streams of waterfalls and spacious flower meadows. The feature of Žumberka is that here on the higher parts of the mountain live people in picturesque villages on steep hills. Most of the inhabitants are descendants of the famous Croatian guardians of the Sea of Usko from Senj. And as part of their Greek Catholic faith, the village of Žumberačka is adorned by numerous picturesque churches including the highest peak of Žumberačka up from 1102m at the height of St. Geru. In Dujtrovec village, we can find one alongside the other Roman Catholic and Greek Catholic churches. The foot of Žumberka Samoborsko gora is a pitomius especially wine-growing area of Plešica. For Samoborska, the trees of the vine are marked in line with the landscape and numerous castles on surrounding hills such as the old Samobor. The Park of Nature Žumberak Samoborsko Gorje, apart from the richness of various biological diversity and the speciality of numerous settlements, also characterizes the proximity of the great city of Zagreb, and practically the half-dividedness with neighbouring Slovenia. It should be noted that the population of Žumberka has been reduced five times over the past 100 years. These two facts open up significant development opportunities. First in animation of promoting various forms of tourism between the citizens of Zagreb and their opportunities and B in the possibility of cross-border cooperation and the use of European funds for joint cross-border projects. The possibility of significant development of excursion and sports tourism, given the proximity of the large city, opens up the possibility of retaining indigenous population, but also of further settlement and the creation of new jobs in agriculture and tourism. European funds allow the realisation of modern programmes and projects of projects of those agriculture and tourism, which is a potential that should not be easily ignored. I invite all potentially interested individuals and individuals to engage in the exciting adventure of private entrepreneurship, the production of the healthiest organic food, healthy sustainable tourism in Žumberk, Samoborsko gora, is clearly the most important initiative expected from the inhabitants of Žumberka, or Samoborsko gora. The state must be there to support such initiatives without reservation. Croatia is generally known for its natural beauty, one of the most beautiful countries in the world. In addition to natural beauty and biodiversity, the uniqueness of certain types of flora and fauna, Croatia is also too rich in cultural heritage. All this puts us in the position of eternal guardians of these values for us, our descendants, for Europe and the world. And in your fill of the above-mentioned beauty and healthy life... Contemporarys and our life in the climate and environment is one of the best quality in all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Tom also contributes to Žumberak. And that is why it is more than commendable that the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning brings before this High House the Spatial Plan of Nature Park Žumberak, the Samobor Mountain which should certainly be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87408	Thank you, too. We have one replica of Ivan Posavec the Guilty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87409	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Blažeković just encouraged me to report for the replica because he really saw Nature Park, Žumberak, Samoborsko Gorje from a very different perspective, from the perspective from which we inhabitants of Zagreb County experience it. And all of you who have said today that this is one particularity, indeed it is and it is necessary to protect in all possible ways and the state now seems and it is seen from these decisions that follow which are of national importance for further editing and urban planning arrangements and peak zones and urban planning of the ski complex and everything else that is going to happen in this area is a fact that shows that the area of the Žumberka and the Park of Nature of the Samobor Mountains is extremely important to us. But what everyone has noticed in their discussions and what may especially need to be stressed in this House is the concern of losing the population of this area, which has been reduced for a number of decades back and is actually lost. On the other hand, this depopulation creates a basis for this space and day and for the future to actually be one complex eco park, a space that is fully secured from various pollution possibilities. And perhaps this invitation and appeal for all those entrepreneurs, young people with ideas in such a truly great vicinity of the city of Zagreb can provide a new entrepreneurial idea and a new space for the development of some of the eco-agricultural sectors by relying on the European Union funds through rural development. And I believe that then the local self-government and regional authorities will find their own interests and follow the state on that path.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87410	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Blažekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87411	Thank you very much. Thank you, colleagues. I responded to your reply only to repeat once again the importance of various possibilities which, by this means, the adoption of such plans open to interested people primarily where it is normal to think of young people, entrepreneurs who could with their creation, with their imagination enter into this exciting activity such as entrepreneurship, one very exciting, tense, many competitions with a lot of adrenaline but which can bring significant personal and satisfactory benefits as well as material benefits. And these plans really open up opportunities for a completely different view of employment and self-employment which I trust at this point and in a series of years away certainly extremely important for the whole country because we are a small country, we are not a big country. And we need to change the paradigm of self-employment relations, in the face of private entrepreneurship, and that is what I believe to be the most correct long-term strategy for our country's development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87412	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the Proposer, Minister Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87413	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a few sentences on the subject that opened here. So perhaps we should repeat the fact that, in front of this respected House in 1999, this respected House established the boundaries of the Park of Nature of Samoborska Gorje, Žumberak. So the spatial plan we only work within the boundaries of nature parks that are established. And there are answers to the honourable representative where the topic of borders has been opened and the topic of St. Gera opened. Therefore, in 1999, the boundaries of the nature park were established and the spatial plan relates to those limits that were established. When these boundaries are different, we will change the spatial plan. The spatial plan provides spatial planning solutions and possibilities for further development. As the esteemed representative Mr. Bačić said several times, it was about a spatial plan that was started in another context and in 2004 there was one Law on Spatial Planning, so the Law on Spatial Planning was changed in 2007 to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. From 1 January 2014 is the new Law on Spatial Planning. In 2013, it was necessary to decide whether to complete it with this spatial plan in accordance with the 2007 law or all activities in one hour frozen, to see the bases that are appropriate for us and to move on to the new Law on Spatial Arrangement, which this esteemed House voted at the end of last year and was in effect from 1. 1. 2014 We concluded and I absolutely agree with it, for any space you need to bring a spatial plan, you need to put it into function, see where the problems are and then change much simpler and you can do much simpler things than when you don't have a spatial plan. So the prerequisite was that the spatial plan must be adopted and we must have it. We decided to adopt it in accordance with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction for a simple reason not to open further procedures and further processes. What was published on our website was a spatial plan that was in the public debate. The spatial plan that was in the public debate had a slightly larger space for tourism development than it is today. So spatial planners are always thinking about the future of further development. It's about a space where we are absolutely doing it together with our colleagues from the aspect of the protection of natural and cultural heritage. Since the process after the public debate is based on observations, the basis of all the consents that were made, these spaces were significantly reduced from what was decided that urban planning of the arrangement would not be expedient and could not be further obtained with it. However, it is indeed a plan that has been made in accordance with one law, but this plan has a basis which is very important, which is the possibility of development, the possibility of further progress in this space and what is the prerequisite, and the prerequisite behind this is that we have a plan for managing the public institution of the Park of Nature Žumberak-Seloborsko Gorje, so that the institution can adopt its management plan. That's where the issue of tourism opened up. Thus, Articles 79 and 80 discusses day-to-day tourism, which should be done here in terms of tourism, as well as from the data it has and the various aspects of tourism and the basis for different types of tourism are mentioned. And there's one more thing that's opened up, it's opened up as a topic on committees, and I think that's where the discussion was mentioned at one point, and that's the infrastructure. In any space, I try so hard to share it in my head with visible and invisible projects. Visible projects are your buildings, visible projects are your houses, and invisible projects are infrastructure. That's what your bloodstream is, which is your network to give you any space to further progress. These invisible projects that are underground or possibly surface are invested in a terrible amount of money, energy, effort, and they are the basis for any kind of development. And there was a big discussion being conducted already in the last public debate over the state road, whether the state road, whether to declare it on the state road, whether to leave it at the level of some local road and the conclusion was better-more to declare it a state road for the simple reason that you can then control the beginning, end, maintenance. Because there will be no development, as the esteemed representative said this area without a series of invisible projects that are needed, because when they are well done, then all other projects and projects that are important to the economy can come and be the drivers of the development of nature parks and national parks. I may also be using this place to mention the fact that we need to know, and this is what we and these areas have 8 national parks and 11 nature parks, and whenever something is declared either by national park or by nature park, you get from the local population, I won't say, you get one worry. They say you keep the reservation, you don't give us the possibility of further development, we stay here as in the window, and others will come and watch. Experiences that we can see from other European Union countries, as well as experiences that we can see with us, is not so. It is therefore necessary to recognise the comparative advantages, to highlight these comparative advantages, and to see the benefits of life in that area. And certainly, what is said here is about a space 30 km from the City of Zagreb. Remember, 35% of the housing fund is not used for permanent housing but for occasional housing. This means that when citizens leave the city, they recognize the comparative advantage of such a region. And what needs to be recognised should also be recognised for the development of the economy. This spatial plan has provided opportunities not only for housing but also for economic development. We at the ministry are pleased to have a spatial plan. I'll repeat, perhaps, the words of the distinguished representative Bačić who says we will support the plan, we have observations, but it's good to have a plan. Indeed, we are proud and I think that we should all be proud together at any time when our most valuable parts, which are national parks and nature parks, are able to adopt spatial plans because they are the preconditions for the management plan of this area and for the development of these areas, and these areas have really great opportunities for further development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87414	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Hansel Mandic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87415	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, so what you said I completely agree that the most valuable thing that the Republic of Croatia has in terms of natural, cultural and tourist beauty is national parks and nature parks. What I am interested in as a parliamentary representative is whether we are well enough to give a good enough quality presentation of our cultural, natural and tourist goods. What I would ask you to do, you usually execute what you accept and what you intend to do, that the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction and the Ministry of Tourism publish a publication in which nature parks and national parks would be designated. Because I think it is the best legitimacy of the Republic of Croatia in the world, and I think that such publication would be very happy and all parliamentary representatives representing the Republic of Croatia in the world would be happy to bring and show the beauty and cultural values of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87416	Thank you, too. Next line, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87417	Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. Vice President, only fellow Mandic, even though he is a replica of the Minister of Tourism, I should say that I should perhaps print out one of these leaflets with nature parks and national parks in the Republic of Croatia. But here's Mrs. Replica's secretary. In fact, you said that there are precisely a number of activities in the field of hospitality and tourism in Article 78, while referring to my presentation where I said that on page 3 religious tourism and that there are opportunities and so on. Let me say conditionally speaking historical tourism where I mentioned the arrivals of thousands of people for one or two days in the area of Sošica near the Jazovka cave, where there are possibilities, so between the other eight items and that part. That part is not explicitly stated, called, and there is not even a single explanation that would speak in that sense. And I said we don't have that here's an introduction and a religious part of tourism, but there's no introduction to any further text of the law. There's no such thing as an article 78. And as I was saying about St. Gary, I said we were planning a field trip. But how do you make it a field trip if it has a Slovenian army on it? So I do not deny the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, on the contrary. I spoke for the purpose of finally realizing the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and of St. Gera, which is catastrian and in every other way Croatian. But unfortunately, we have a problem with stubborn Slovenians, I guess that's why it's called the Durdin Summit on theirs that deny it all the time and it must be solved within the framework of the Park of Nature Žumberak Samoborsko Gorje.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87418	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I'd like to thank the Minister for her cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87419	Have all the representatives and MPs present been involved? If so, do we have a condition? Thank you very much. We have, as they say, a quorum to decide on all the agenda points we've done last week. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, we move on to the vote, to the vote. Proposal for a decision on a spatial plan of the Park of Nature Žumberak, Samoborsko Goreje. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote. The vote is over. Please... I find it unanimous with 113 votes for a decision on the establishment of the Zumberak Nature Park, Samoborsko Gore in the text as proposed by the motionary, Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87420	And we continue with - Proposed law on the protection of monetary institutions, first reading, P.Z. No. 682. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. With us is Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr Evelyn Tonkovic, introductoryly. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87421	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. In front of you, the proposal for a law on the protection of monetary institutions is a new law, which will cease the validity of the Law on minimum protection measures in the business of cash and the values adopted in 2003 at the time, in an effort to prevent and reduce the number of criminal offences in the most risky business facilities, in particular the avoidance of the loss of persons performing monetary operations. The 2003 Law, whose amendments and additions were adopted in 2005, introduced the minimum measures of physical and technical protection that should have produced certain results in the short term. However, they have generally come under the obligation to establish physical protection or to install impenetrable protection barriers in all types of monetary institutions. Regardless of the way in which it is very important for many businesses at the time, it was an organisational and financial problem, and in some situations and a security problem, since the introduction of only two exclusive types of protection was not possible to completely prevent criminal offences. Despite the above, he obtained some results, thus reducing the total number of robbery in all categories of monetary institutions from 436 in 2004 to 216 in 2013. However, given the constant risk of committing criminal offences in high risk economic facilities such as buildings that use larger amounts of cash and other values in their business, and the trend in increasing number of shelling in some types of monetary institutions has also been observed in the last three years, especially postal offices, business banks, while others show a trend of high numbers of shelling at the annual bookshop level, automatic clubs need to continuously raise the level of security in those facilities, which implies, above all, the adoption of a new regulation that would allow the introduction of new protection measures, which would improve the protection of persons and property of monetary institutions. In addition, categories of facilities operating with cash and values have been established in which a large number of robberies have been recorded in the last three years. These are offices for the purchase of precious metals, jewelry stores and offices carrying out payment payments transactions, which accumulated a large amount of finished money, which were not covered by the current regulation. In addition, over the past 10 years, there has been evidence of and evidence of technological progress in the development of a number of technical protection systems that cannot be introduced into the operations of monetary institutions since it does not prescribe them. In the first row, this applies also to the interlocking door, cash registers, safes with a time-out opening, smoke bill systems, pipe mail systems, anti-stud systems via the alarm of the last banknote, access control and the like. Also, the current regulation does not adequately prescribe protection in the distribution of other values other than money, precious metals, valuable items, and the distribution of cross-border transport. Therefore, the analysis of the existing legislation concluded that it is necessary to adopt a new regulation which would, in detail and individually, regulate the basic, rather than just minimum protection in monetary institutions facilities, as was the previous law. Introduce new bonds of application of the safeguard measure, and give the possibility to introduce new protection technologies, thereby increasing the level of security in those facilities. The basic reasons for the adoption of the new regulation can therefore be summarised in the following: confirmation of the basic purpose of adoption is protection primarily of persons performing monetary business, detailed definition of concepts and the introduction of terminology which has so far not been properly explained vault, safe, discreet cash register, impenetrable bulkheads and others. The regulation of measures for each type of monetary institution individually, and this is important, in particular respecting the specificities of the business of each of them. The introduction of two new types of monetary institutions, jewelry stores, silver shops, filigree shops, offices for the purchase of precious metals and valuables, as well as legal persons and crafts for the processing of precious metals and legal persons and crafts carrying out monetary operations through payment and payment transactions with cash. Detailed regulation of technical protection measures, quality, video surveillance accommodation, anti-threat, anti-regular elements, method of access control, specifications of the space in which the accommodation of the registers, safes and how to protect against opening and alienation, accommodation of manipulative money, etc. Detailed regulation of physical protection measures in such a way as to strengthen the role of security guards, especially in banks and other branches using physical protection. Introducing alternative protection measures to be addressed in the administrative procedure. Prescription of the establishment of a security plan and procedures to improve organisational protection measures in businesses, regulation of the possibility of the ministry in the event that the established measures do not result in an acceptable level of security in the administrative procedure affecting an increase or change of the type of protection in the offices. Detailed rules on how to protect the distribution of money and value and cross-border transport. Prescribing the protection of personal and other data, keeping records and reporting on changes and others, defining the supervision and other powers of the inspector, introducing a level of criminal provisions depending on the severity of the infringement. Enabling the adoption of sub-legislative regulations governing the normative area, the way in which electrochemical protection systems are tested, and the way in which legal persons are certified for the examination of materials to be incorporated as protection in monetary institutions, institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87422	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a club debate. On behalf of the SDP club Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87423	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Minister, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my debate on this legislative proposal, I would like to stress that the area of private protection in Croatia has been resolved in quality. In fact, the first regulations governing this area were passed back in the '90s, to be quite precise in 1996, a Law on the Protection of Persons and Property was passed. What is interesting to me is that the area of private protection is one of the few areas that, in the process of Croatia's entry into the EU, we should not have aligned with the acquis of the EU for one simple reason why European protection law does not actually exist. So there are national security rights of EU Member States which I must stress to each other quite differently, but this area as a whole I repeat is still not Europeanly harmonised and resolved. Therefore, all the legal changes that took place in Croatia since 1996 in the area of private protection and, of course, in the area of the protection of monetary institutions as one of the segments and private protection were not subject to European requirements and directives but exclusively to technological development, economic opportunities and the security situation in the Republic of Croatia. In particular, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council, as well as with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union, and in particular Article 10(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as regards the European Union, and in particular Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 4 thereof. From round 400 to about 250 a year, the deputy minister gave the data very precisely. However, in certain types of monetary institutions, not only are the number of misdemeanors, or criminal offences, so that it stagnates but it has increased even more. In addition, in the last 10 years, some economic operators have also appeared in the market that have so far been not bound by law enforcement, such as goldsmithies, filigree workshops, metal-buying stations, and the like, which are particularly interesting to robbers and in which the crimes of robbery have been frequented. As a result, it was necessary to adopt a more high-quality regulation that would fully regulate the issue of protection and persons and property in the facilities of monetary institutions, as well as in the distribution of money and value, and to reduce the number of criminal acts of robbery. In view of the multitude of measures prescribed by the new law and thus actually define optimal, therefore no longer minimum protection measures as was the case in the existing law, the new regulation has changed the name so that the law on the protection of monetary institutions is now proposed. When we talk about monetary institutions, then we talk about institutions and facilities that deal with cash, values and valuables of large amounts. Fortunately, if so, so to speak, so when a robbery occurs is that the damage to the property that is suffered in that case can mainly be compensated because the property is generally secured by insurance companies. However, this is not the case with citizens, whether it is the employees of monetary institutions, whether it is the guards, whether it is the clients of those institutions and human life is irreparable. We know that the very attempt at robbery is already causing severe and long-term psychological trauma in both workers and citizens who have found themselves in the area of committing a crime. That is why the first and basic value to be protected in monetary institutions is precisely human life. And that's the first and most basic thing that protects exactly this law that we're talking about today. Therefore, the most important change adopted by the new law is the definition and identification of types of monetary institutions, thus eliminating the existing categorisation of monetary institutions by taxing, individually for each type of monetary institution, optimal and appropriate spatial, organisational, administrative and technical protection measures according to the specificities of their business and their conditioned level of risk in business. In this legislative proposal, new monetary institutions have been added, which have not been in the law so far, as I have already said, jewelry stores, philanthropic shops, offices for the purchase of precious metals and legal persons and crafts for the processing of precious metals, then the Croatian Monetary Office and specialised institutions or companies that are contractually engaged in business of processing, storage, distribution and payment operations with the use of money and value. Here's what we know is that a few years ago, we can make payments, or we can make payments to our directors, for example, in Konzum. In one word, the new Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions will have two to three thousand new taxpayers. All monetary institutions are obliged to adopt a security plan, namely a general act which prescribes spatial technical protection measures, organisational protection measures, technical protection measures and physical protection measures for each office and any external payment and payment and storage device. It is prescribed that any monetary institution must also have a person in charge of implementing security measures in all its offices, so in smaller facilities such as exchange offices and jewelry stores it will probably be the owner himself, while in larger companies a security manager or another security specialist will be designated, i.e. it will be business managers. The law allows monetary institutions to exempt them from the application of the prescribed measures and the establishment of so-called ‘indemnities’ for their business and payment-payment devices from the Ministry of the Interior. alternative protection measures. These alternative safeguard measures are worth so long as there is no incident in this place, so some crime of theft or robbery in which case the Ministry of the Interior orders the adoption of increased protection measures. As regards the protection measures in the distribution of money, it should be noted that the existing measures have not been significantly corrected in view of the fact that the establishment of a current way of protecting money and value in the distribution since 2007 has not actually been recorded by the attacks on vehicles in the transport of money, which means that the existing legal solution is quite good quality. The new law also prescribes the conditions and means of cross-border distribution of money and value and all legal and physical persons from abroad who intend to transport money from foreign commercial banks and other monetary institutions to or through the Republic of Croatia. The law also introduces minimum technical requirements for constructions, elements, devices and technical protection systems. The legislative proposal also defines measures to protect the confidentiality of personal and other data as well as to monitor the implementation of protection measures. The law also prescribes the obligation to keep and supply data to the Ministry of the Interior in order to accurately determine the number of monetary institutions' operations, given that this number is constantly changing, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs must always have up-to-date data to establish and carry out appropriate supervision of the implementation of safeguard measures. Finally, I would also like to say that monetary institutions operating with cash and values are obliged to provide security measures for the protection of persons, money and values in accordance with the provisions of this law within 6 months of the entry into force of this law. And finally, let me conclude, in this legislative proposal, the emphasis is indeed on the protection of persons and then property. Despite the ongoing debates and in some ways the law sends a truly unambiguous message that investment in security should never be considered as a cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87424	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club Grubisic-Kain, there is no one left to discuss. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club Nenad Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87425	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. There's been a law before us that's been going on for two years, a law on the protection of monetary institutions. As good as he is, I think he's good, but perhaps we should better ask those who are usually on the other side of the law how much he is implementing and how much they will use him for some of their negative purposes. As counterpart Jelash already said, the damage done on the bank's property or any other monetary institution in most cases can be compensated, but man's life certainly can't. Therefore, legal measures that prescribe security on monetary institutions are of crucial importance. With this law, the emphasis remains on the protection of persons, and despite the ongoing debates on cost increases, we believe that investment in security can never be a cost. The number of muggings in monetary institutions since 2003 has dropped to date but remains a large number to continue to be reduced. Any acts of robbery or his attempt as well as other forms of serious crime in monetary institutions are causing severe psychophysical consequences for employees and other persons presently in such facilities. The existing Law on minimum protection measures resulted in a certain reduction in the total number of criminal offences in categorised facilities, however, a continuous number and even an increase in the number of criminal offences were recorded in certain types of monetary institutions. Some economic operators have appeared on the market, where several crimes are recorded on a daily basis, in particular in robbery, which so far have not been bonds of law enforcement, and we have heard that jewelry stores and stations are for the purchase of precious metals and the like. As the conduct of criminal acts of robbery affects the security of all citizens and the security of the property of citizens and business entities, it is necessary to adopt a new, more quality regulation that will prescribe more fully the problem of the protection of persons and property in the facilities of monetary institutions. This law prescribes optimal protection measures that seek to reduce the risk and increase the protection and level of security in the conduct of monetary operations in monetary institutions and in the distribution of money and value and, above all, reduce the number of criminal acts of robbery. According to MUP data, they differ from Mr. Tonkovic's data, in 2014, 396 robberies, 20 banks, 54 post office offices, 85 bookshops, 16 exchange offices, offices for the purchase of precious metals 126, 95 kiosks. The bookies continue to be a problem, but much less than at the beginning when the bookies started their work, but there was a 15% increase in robbery in the post office. The most important change in the new law is the listing of special safeguard measures for each individual monetary institution, thus eliminating the existing categorisation of these institutions. As with new legal entities, the application of legal measures was also entered by jewelry stores, filigree shops, offices for the purchase of precious metals, crafts for the processing of the same, automatic clubs, Croatian Monetary Institute, specialised institutions, companies that are contracted for the needs of both banks and other clients in the processing of storage, distribution and payment and payment operations, we know that these are the facilities of Tiska and Konzum. As regards the granting of consent to alternative safeguard measures, the conditions under which an exemption from the application of the safeguard measure may be lodged shall be laid down. The possibility of granting consent to protection measures which may appear to be very useful and appropriate, and currently not prescribed by law, has been carried out. The submission of an application to the MUP may require an exemption from the application of some of the prescribed measures, subject to alternative protection measures in individual or combined circumstances. Although in the current practice of the MUP, all monetary institutions that have installed the door in their offices have received a positive opinion, an exemption from the establishment of a measure of physical protection, we have witnessed extremely brutal raids of unknown... criminal acts in these monetary institutions. The law describes measures of mechanical protection, in payment-paying places, drawers or registers with mechanical or electronic locking should be used, and certain bonds of the law should also use time... openings which have proved to be a successful measure of deterrence from criminal acts. The vault space shall have an anti-lock door with mechanical locking or co-inclusive and access control, a minimum one camera inside the vault and one covering the entrance to the vault outside and which must have an identification function. In the case of a central vault, it shall be protected in addition to those measures by physical protection. The law further states that during the provision of protection services, the protection of the offices must be located in a room that allows it to look at the largest part of the internal and external perimeter of the protected facility, and that events in and outside the office follow visually and using the video surveillance of the business and check the state of the system's regularity and functionality in the business. The draft law also sets out requirements in the awareness of the quality of video surveillance. For cameras covering essential points such as entrance and exit and payment-payment places and other, they are defined as having to have an identification function. The law further requires cameras to work day and night, which means that the cameras in the conditions of weaker lighting switch to black and white mode for greater sensitivity. The purpose of all new requirements is to avoid situations such as in the past that, because of the poor quality of video surveillance that only satisfied the legal form, it was not possible to identify the perpetrator of criminal offences. The new law also prescribes the conditions and means of cross-border distribution of almost money and the value of all legal and natural persons abroad who intend to transport money from foreign, commercial banks and other monetary institutions to or through the Republic of Croatia, with the mandatory police escort. The existing protection measures in the distribution of money have not been significantly corrected since they have not been reported with more serious attacks. As a result, more quality protection of citizens and monetary institutions and further reduction of the number of criminal acts of robbery need to improve protection and the adoption of this law. That is why Croatian Labourists will support this law in their first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87426	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87427	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a new Bill on the Protection of Monetary Institutions which, according to the Proposer, replaces the current Law on Minimum Protection Measures in business with cash values. Although the application of the applicable law has resulted in a certain reduction in the total number of criminal offences under the conditions of this law, we see that, in certain types of monetary institutions, a continuous number is still recorded, and a rise in criminal offences, certain economic operators have also appeared on the market after the entry into force of the Law on minimum protection measures in business with cash and values, which have daily recorded several criminal offences... such as goldsmithies, the purchase of precious metals and others so far have not been bonds of the application of the law, so this bill required that the types of monetary institutions should be prescribed for each type or monetary institution to provide adequate protection measures, and thus also increased, I will stress this, the sense of security of employees of those monetary institutions and citizens above all users of the services of those monetary institutions. That's what the proposer of the new law says. However, reading this bill gives the impression that the proposal looks more like a regulation than a law because, in my opinion, it is too technicalally detailed that it can be limited in terms of the speed in which the security technique is being developed. And when something is too detailed, they steal and make mistakes. So, for example. in Article 8, the words "cameras having an identification function must have a horizontal resolution of a minimum of 330 pixels per metre". I don't know what the promoter wanted, but with a resolution like that, it's not possible to identify because that would mean that every three millimeter is one dot or a pixel. As far as I know, the resolution is calculated by a corrupt inch, or it is prescribed how many dots must be per horizontal and vertical, otherwise it is also calculated in megapixels or millions of pixels. I must note that the number of serious crimes such as robbery and robbery theft is moving from the banking sphere and exchange offices to less protected buildings such as jewelry stores and gold-purchasing facilities, etc. which are covered by this proposal by law. And I see from last year's M.O.P. report that the number of reported crimes of robbery is on the rise. According to the report last year, a statistical decline in reported crime has been reported primarily due to a change in legislation, but concerns a small degree of detection by the perpetrators of also heavy thefts. That's how it is, for example. the following offences were recorded during 2013 according to that report that we just adopted today. A total of 54 at the scene found 1 perpetrator, unknown 53, resolved 19 or 35%. On banks, of the total 20 reports, the perpetrator was found 3 times in 17 cases was unknown and 14 or 70% was resolved. In exchanges, of the 16 bandits, the unknown was the perpetrator in 15, 6 or 37.7% were resolved. At the store, out of 359 perpetrators were found at 6, unknown in 353 cases, 130 or 36.2% were resolved. On gas stations, out of 70 bandits, the perpetrator was found in one, 34 or 48% were resolved. In kiosks, out of 95 cases, the perpetrator was unknown in 94, 22 or 23.3% were resolved. On the bookies, out of 85 cases, the unsub was unknown in all 85, discovered in 34 cases or 40%. On sayings for the purchase of precious metals there were 126 outlaws, it was unknown in 125, 58 cases were discovered or 46%. From this brief review, we see that the crime of robbery was reported 1389 times, the perpetrator was found 20 times, unknown 1348 times, and was discovered in 598 cases or an average of 43.1%, so this is data that includes both open spaces and family houses. Reading this bill to greet is that for each monetary institution, there is a difference of technical protection that you say is optimal and that it is better than categorisation with what I agree with, but remains a question of protecting the safety of the lives of Shaft officials and security guards. Let's just remember the bloody robbery of the FIN in Đurđevec when the robber shot a security guard and a client in the neck while the officers hid under the counter. In such cases, protective vests of the highest standards do not help. Article 18 of the Law states that a security guard must be placed in a position that allows him to review the largest part of the internal part of the business and the external perimeter, but does not mention the obligation of monetary institutions to secure a safe space for the security. The protection companies say that the analysis of past bank robbery attacks on monetary institutions has shown that the largest number of heavily injured security guards have been in the rooms they have protected and that banks are saving on the arrangement of the security space so that it is good that this proposal sets out in Article 17 more precisely that security guards carrying out physical protection activities in the distribution of almost money and values of transport or transfer must do those tasks in addition to the rules governing the activity of private protection, in particular by means of a guide drawn up by the protection company, which contains the measures and actions necessary to carry out those tasks set out in a specific regulation which determines the area of conduct in accordance with the security procedures of the monetary institution. That's what security companies were looking for anyway. I would refer to this criminal part of this bill, in the criminal part of this proposal, for example. It states that the penalty referred to in Article 44(3), paragraph 1, which speaks of the punishment of a security guard who, in addition, does not concentrate on work. I have to ask myself how the level of concentration is determined to work in order to make something acceptable or punishable. So in which way someone will determine whether the security guard is concentrated enough because the fine is between 1000 and 5000 kuna for the security guard. At the end of this Bill on the Protection of Monetary Institutions reached a complex problem of the security of payers' participants with cash and its acceptance will not address their security to a satisfactory extent, especially until organised bank robbers or addicts who are increasingly common robbers are contained. But somehow, I can't help but feel that this bill has given the focus to protect property and increase... the activities of the MUP and less on the protection of the security of the counter staff. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's my impression, and I would disagree with some colleagues and colleagues who say that this way increases the level of those who are most exposed to it are security guards in the offices and counter staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87428	Thank you, too. We have one replica of Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87429	Here's a colleague for a while, I'd like to relate to what you've been talking about and I'd actually agree with you that maybe really some technical specifications, calibers, weather norms, and so on would be simpler if they weren't actually put into law, but that they were left behind to be dealt with by the Ministry of the Interior later by sublaws or regulations, given that they are occasionally changing. So it's about things that change later, so if they don't get introduced into the law, they're left to the Ministry of the Interior so that sublegal acts can change them then, in fact, and without changing the law, they can later be dressed, given that often different standards, norms, actually, in these things as well as in others that are technical natures simply change themselves. It might be easier and simpler for the Ministry of the Interior if it had left itself more space to simply make time over a year, two, three bring some new norms, some new standards that simply they can bring it to the rules and change it. And this built-in, built-in strict into one law will actually be able to change again only through changes and additions to the law. Because we have various areas, in various other areas, we've actually left these topics and technically natures to the ministries to change and norm through sublegal acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87430	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Shantek. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87431	So a respected colleague like I said, right through all these articles that talk about this technical level of protection is given a focus precisely on alarms and video techniques. And then, in an article that prescribes what kind of video technology has to be some kind of cardinal error where cameras that have an identification function must have a horizontal resolution of at least 330 pixels per metre. You understand, I think there will be different interpretations of this article of the law because every camera that exists today meets the condition that it has 330 pixels per metre. However, I think that if the legislator wanted to make it so technically clear that it might be better if they gave any format they wanted, whether it was a MP4 or some other format that would just be compatible with their devices. So if there's an unwanted event that the police don't have to turn it into some form of their own that they can read but simply insert that medium and see what happened and thus shorten the time between unwanted events and police intervention. Here's my point, and I agree with you right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87432	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87433	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister. I'm going to start from the end of this legislative proposal that could actually simply be said to move one degree of protection more than before. So before it was the Law on Minimum Protection of Monetary Institutions, we now have the Law on Fundamental Protection of Monetary Institutions. That's another level. So it's not what they say top-notch but it's basic protection. At the end of this legislative proposal, 40 that this law enters into force on the 8th day of the day of its publication in the National Journal. However, in the last article of Article 46, it states in paragraph 4 that monetary institutions operating with cash and values are obliged to provide these basic security measures for the protection of persons, money and values in accordance with the provisions of this Act within 6 months of the date of its entry into force. So the deadline for adaptation, the deadline for adaptation to this new legislative proposal, is 6 months for these monetary institutions to be prepared and followed by a new legislative proposal. In addition, within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this Act, the Minister shall, within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this Act, adopt a Regulation on the conditions and manner of testing of the electrochemical systems of protection and will also, within one year from the date of entry into force, adopt a Regulation on the conditions to be met by legal, or natural persons issuing certificates and procedures for the authorisation of certification legal or natural persons for norms listed in the regulation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, etc. So we have a six-month deadline for all monetary institutions and all those covered by this law and it went broadly this time have the possibility of 6 months of adapting and applying or applying technical norms of this law. I will not repeat that in the Republic of Croatia there is a general impression that there are frequented robbery, burglary, theft, etc. It is in these facilities which have been mentioned here and which the law speaks very clearly and explicitly of each of these institutions, each of these forms of business with money, values etc., starting with the CNB, Croatian Monetary, FINA, housing savings, banks, postal offices, offices of the Croatian lottery, exchange offices and bookshops, I must say the bookshop, jewelry store, silver store because they are as nickle as mushrooms after the rainfall. There are many of them, and when we take this new law then there will be a big cry here for us new ones not to say parafiscal duties, because in any case equipment with security devices and all that this law requires is certain investments, although I may not be too sorry about their profits and that they are mostly worth from Croatia, and when we talk about buying gold and silver, these are tons of gold that go abroad after buying from Croatian citizens. So for all of them, this law is valid and prescribed and it's good that it is. But what's interesting about this bill is the infringing provisions. So by fine of 50 to 500 thousand kuna we have 60 categories, so 60 subjects can also be 60 examples covered by this penalty. Furthermore, in Article 37(1) of this Law, the second fine will punish a natural person, a foreign citizen found in private protection operations, with the protection of money in respect of the provisions of this law, in respect of the provisions of this law. We have six items here. Then in Article 43, the fine of 5 to 100 thousand kuna again, we have 24 paragraphs, and then finally again, we have 17 and 5 in Article 44 66 in connection with violations of legal and physical persons to disobey this law. So really an impressive gallery or a list of cash cans for violations under this law. The HDSSB club, in any case, given the shift from a minimum based on protection, at least said the deputy minister, will be for this legislative proposal, and also because 400 have been looting in various institutions lately in 2013 since the post office, FINA, jewelry store, bookshop, jewelry store, there is no place where there has been no break-in and that the obvious increase of such crimes is such heisting in the Republic of Croatia and that, in fact, it seems to me and that this qualitative shift of protection has arisen. Because you can see, because it's obvious that the increase in the number of criminal offences is being looted, or the heavy muggings with people who have died, guards are being wounded, etc. and that there was a need for both the Croatian Government and the Ministry to just prescribe a new law where, clearly, we cannot rule out any robbery or prevent it, but in order to increase the number of criminal offences solved, therefore, these new technical measures that are prescribed here, I will not list, colleagues have explained everything and you, Mr. Deputy, to increase the number of detected, resolved cases of mugging. That's why I say the HDSSB is okay with this. Although this law does not bear the code E, it seems to me that we are getting closer and closer to standards, we may have been able to from the German law or someone else to prescribe their security measures and safeguard measures. But here's a shift if it's a Croatian invention, and it's obvious because it doesn't bear the E mark, then we agree. And a few more remarks, if there is one, that I'm just gonna spill a little 'cause it's hard to connect this. For this reason, Article 19 states that monetary institutions may, as well as payment and payment devices, have one Hungarian name for ATMs, but I will not say it now because it is a bit simple, and the storage of cash and value by applying to the Ministry for an exemption from the application of some of the measures laid down in Article 7 of this Act and the establishment of alternative protection measures, taking into account the private or combined conditions set out in paragraph 2 of this Article. So it's about one expedient moment for these money-making entities, in case, for example. the bank or the bank's business to the police station, so it's understandable that it might be a little easier to make it easier, although there are such impertinent robbers who, in fact, I've seen but not in our country, but in Barcelona across the street from the central police station is my colleague, one of his wives ripped the bracelet off his hand, five meters from the entrance to the police station, the central police station of the magistrate as they call it in Spain. Teared her off, went off with the bike ran off. And the request can be submitted for this relief of security measures, safeguard measures if the offices are located within border and customs crossings where the police are present daily, every second, present, and airport, river and maritime ports. If there is an uninterrupted 24-hour protection of police or the presence of police and security guards in these facilities and premises. And then it is further explained in which all situations can, therefore, require an exemption from the entire prescribed protection of such objects, which is understandable. I'm just afraid there wouldn't be too much of that exemption request, so then we'll pretend to be this, like, that's how it is. What is the measure close to the police station and how far away it is from the customs crossing, etc. So it may not be defined precisely, but it may appear so, so much for an exemption that in fact the law may become in some sense not quite groundless but will be curtailed in the application of legal measures. I wouldn't, since Friday extended, mostly what I thought I said. There's only one word or one sentence left, and that's a measure to protect the secrecy of personal and other data. What you mentioned at the beginning of this legislative proposal is that skimming. This is the most interesting thing for me right now, so it is an illegal copying of magnetic records and protecting from credit cards on ATMs and other devices, and this is increasingly happening in Croatia to find out PIN, etc. And if that were the way it happened, I don't know if it was robbery or what they were, how would a man now say ironing a card as they say it. It's also in a common phenomenon. There's no statistics on it, I haven't found them. But I know there are people who complain that it happened to them. I also know personally the people to whom it happened and even that certain, that their cards came to ironing in other countries in Italy and I don't know where. The way the skiing was done, I don't know, maybe the police know. However, in any case, if the personal data that exists in banks, for example, on each of us and the OIB and JMBG and all others must be well protected and it is good that in paragraph 7, the monetary institutions referred to in Article 5 are obliged to designate one or more persons who will have the right to see personal and other persons, so that the police know exactly who are the name and last name of those persons who know the personal data. Others must not know personal data. At least in this I'd say the official part is prevented or at least to know who the responsible person is, and not that after what happened, you don't know, nobody knows. So, all in all, no law is repressive. This law seeks to achieve greater protection and also a higher percentage of the exposed, exposed acts of robbery in the Republic of Croatia which I certainly hope no one will object to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87434	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87435	You are a colleague Grubisic even a little older than me, and you remember as well as I did those beautiful times when we entered all public institutions and there were no security guards in them. And in these times as today's level of security in the Republic8 Croatia was neither much better nor much worse. In the meantime, we've got tens of thousands of security guards, we expect them in the years that come that we'll have security guards in both schools and kindergartens, and we'll protect ourselves like there's some kind of major internal threat. I have to share, considering that everyone has been exposed in a slightly different way to their discomfort when we enter a bank that has that double glass. I'm avoiding the bank, getting into a bank that has double glass, when you go in and the thing behind you closes, so... Then the next one opens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I feel, I don't feel safer, but I feel worse in that space. And I think that in some way and through the media, in fact, that we are pushing it to create a small collective paranoia about some uncertainty that is not really there and there is no need to actually impose on ourselves the complex that Croatia is some insecure state with some high rates of crime, with a large number of riots when indeed none or statistical indicator shows that this is the case. I actually have a slight impression that slowly and gradually, and in some ways and with the support of the private sector that profites from it all, we are actually creating an unnecessary atmosphere of collective paranoia and that sometimes we are, in general, exaggerating with access, even in these topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87436	Thank you. Answer, here's my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87437	Thank you very much to my colleague Đurović. Your thoughts are good, they go in that sense. I hope that when you go into double glass that you don't hit it because you don't expect it, you don't hit it with your head or nose. But when we talk about the fact that in the Croatian state I used to speak, and somehow in line with your thinking that it's actually big brown, that we're all. So look at any one of them, as the Croatian staircase says, or the elevator, you have a camera. I live here. Every floor has a camera. In the town of Mr. Bandic, the mayor said all of Zagreb would be under video cameras. He's getting on with it. It is true that you should consider that some companies may even encourage such a thing, so I will not say hysteria or paranoia so that, in fact, in the purchase of such equipment prescribed by law, they may also have their own profits, their profits. But I think given the number of robberies, mostly in the border areas. Here's Slavonic Ship robbed a jewelry store or this exchange shop and will never be found. Because he went to Bosnia man, across the bridge fine with his passport gone, no more, over. He's a BiH citizen and we don't have jurisdiction here because we have no leads to be someone. But according to it, it can be suspected that it's exactly the people of BiH I'm not saying with all of BiH but some individuals who came across the bridge, took the money or gold and went back. And what are you gonna do to him? It's nothing, isn't it? So, I'm not for some kind of terror big brown and camera but for greater security yes. Ask your mother, the brother of this murdered security guard, is that what they think, I mean like you said? Or the wounded one who stayed in a wheelchair here with Dugava in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87438	Time. Thank you, colleague Grubisic. We're continuing an individual debate. Hi, Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87439	Thank you very much. Here we are listening to this interesting presentation and colleagues Grubisic and colleagues of Đurović may be if nothing other than the one found out why it is a decline in production, so we seem to have determined from this exhibition why parliamentary representatives do not come to work so regularly and so often because as far as I can see, we have the same double glass there, and many seem to have an aversion as said by fellow Djurovic of double glass, so maybe that's the reason. Let the professional services think about it. I don't think a colleague of Djurovic is referring to it, he's often in the assembly. As far as this law is concerned, it certainly needs to be welcomed because it has been a long, long time since 2003 when we are changing that law and we are raising the level of security or a higher level of protection. Of course, much has changed for a few reasons that I would not now enter but, of course, technical benefits have become better, but they are also more resourceful for those who want to bypass them. So, I welcome, in any case, the adoption of this law on the protection of monetary institutions because it protects a person in the first place, protects property, and I think it's necessary to say something at the end of this interaction that is something about competitiveness. Therefore, it is true that the protection of persons requires our greatest attention, and that in other words means both employees and those liquids who bring and carry the money they pay when it comes to this payment or cash business, as well as those clients and also those citizens who find it in the event of any unpleasant, unpleasant or criminal activities. It's the same with the property. However, from this or at least from the practice so far, we have a situation that some are in an unequal position. I think protecting a person who works or carries out payment traffic must be a protection for each person equally. I'll give you an example where we come across each day. Is he a less valuable employee in this kiosk where I pay my directors or one who's protected as a northern bear in the bank behind as a fellow and impenetrable glasses etc. said, etc. I think that in these very outcast and completely unprotected kiosks, at least I haven't seen absolutely any protection and no supervision, can we allow that society to be put in place and de facto discriminated or put aside? In my view, this law should make it more clear, not some other, like this, but also those who work in kiosks, who do business in shops, and we will have them in catering shops, roast shops, etc. And I think we should do something about it. At the same time not only are they in an unequal position as employees but also property is in an unequal position in relation to the protection itself, compared to the property that is located in some other monetary institutions. The question of competitiveness is also raised. Do those who do not have any protection have any protection and those who have such unprotected employees, employees, workers however you like, from those sellers to the runners, do we allow them with this kind of relationship to provide themselves with greater profits, greater dividends, etc., and others are in an unequal position then? So there's a question of competitiveness. Any monetary institution in my opinion would have to have equal conditions when it comes to business because they are all on the market. Today there's one kiosk, an employee in the kiosk is unprotected, and the profit is far higher because the owner didn't have to invest in the protection he has to invest in let's say let's say here's a FIN that I might be simpler and more plastic. Therefore, I think that this law should make it more clear what, how, when and what level of protection, or where, ultimately, payment traffic can take place. Here, someone said it's Friday, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87440	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the final deputy minister, Mr Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87441	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. In the end, I'm glad that we all agreed that we need to raise the level of security of monetary institutions and see that we're all here in some way on that same platform. People's lives are important, it's not as important as the human lives and lives of those citizens, our own who are the users of these institutions, let's imagine the man who enters that institution neither guilty nor obliged to be captured and to experience this stress or trauma. When he sees that some kind of robbery or something, or one robbery is taking place, and that his life is at stake, this is our one unrepeated life, and that's why we shouldn't all be together to have any mercy for any standards, profits, desires to ease it. The goal is that we can all function this one life in a way that is appropriate to one human being. We thank you for everything, for all the comments, for all the opinions, this is our joint project, this is our common law, it's not ours or yours, it's ours together. And with all due attention, we'll consider everything you've said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87442	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. This concludes the debate, we'll vote later. My colleagues and colleagues, for today, we'll be done with our work. I remind you on Wednesday at the 1600 session. On Thursday, we continue the debate, the strategy of education, science and technology. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 12.25 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-03-0.u87443	The next thing we decide is the proposal for a law on the protection of monetary institutions, first reading, P.Z. No. 682. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. Proposal for a law on the protection of monetary institutions is hereby adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes have reached the proposed conclusion with 115 votes in favour, 109 votes in favour and 6 abstentions. Thank you very much.
