ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81060	My colleagues and colleagues have a good day. We continue to discuss: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on areas of special state care, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 670. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Regional Development and the European Union funds and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received their reports at the session. On behalf of the Proposer, the bill will be explained by the Deputy Minister,... Uh-huh, there is also a deputy minister present, and the introduction will be explained by Mrs Mirela Stanic-Popovic, head of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81061	Thank you, Your Honor, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of Parliament's MPs, The aim of the proposed amendments to the Law on areas of special state care is to improve the existing system of housing and the exercise of rights in areas of special state concern that will enable citizens to exercise their rights more effectively. The law on areas of special state care is amended for the following reasons: Article 10.b of the Law on the Field of Special State Care stipulates that Croatian defenders and family members of the mortally injured Croatian defenders of the Homeland War who bought their own funds or loans to a house or state-owned apartment in the areas of special state care have the right to return the purchase price without interest on condition that they live in the same facility, that they do not own another habitable residential facility, and that they have not sold, donated or in any other way alienated from 8 October 1991. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. Due to the lack of financial resources caused by the economic crisis, the repayment of funds has not been made and the proposal to extend it until 1 June 2017. The budget of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing for this purpose in 2014 provided 4 million kuna, while estimated to require around 8 million kuna for the next two years. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also prescribed a way of repaying funds to Croatian defenders, which also defined the deadline for applying for a refund of the purchase price, which expires on 13 May 2015. Next, the provision of Article 12a provides that the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care shall adopt annual housing plans for the implementation of the list of housing championships. The amendment is proposed for the reason that due to the size of the business and the specific individual housing models, in the first place this applies to the models of the award of construction material or organised construction of a family home, is actually more meaningful, more efficient plan to bring it on a three-year and not on a one-year basis. Also, since applicants are applying for housing which will not be positively resolved in the current year due to lack of financial resources and insufficient number of available state-owned housing units, they would not be subject to additional costs and would be relieved of the administrative apparatus. It is proposed that the submitted and unresolved applications be transferred to the next year when they will only be re-counted and included in the championship lists. Therefore, the proposed amendment is aimed at the time and financial savings of the users themselves and the discharge of the administrative procedure before the competent authorities. Furthermore, the proposed amendment to Article 14 deletes the obligation for a family who has obtained the right to provide housing by giving up building materials for repair, renovation and upgrade of a family home or apartment, or the construction of a family house on the property of the applicant, to move into a renovated family home within 90 days of the date of delivery of the final report of the supervisory engineer and to stay in the same house for at least 10 years from the date of the final report of the supervisory engineer delivered, or by issuing a valid authorisation. In this way, we want to remove restrictions on ownership rights imposed on owners at a certain point, and also to level these users with their rights with other users' rights to restore whether they are actually in both these models of private property. Furthermore, Article 4 of this proposal also addresses the issue of judicial and executive proceedings relating to the return of funds against the beneficiary of the right to donate construction material. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fields of Special State Care of 2013 has been deleted by a provision which prescribed the obligation of the user to move into a residential facility that was renovated by the State budget within the prescribed time limit. However, that amendment of the law did not provide for provisions which would address the problem of judicial proceedings already initiated under that provision or which were, whether ongoing or completed. We also want to deprive these users of the proposed amendments and bring them to a level playing field with all other users of the right to refurbishment. The last thing we want to change concerns the amendment of the existing article, in fact Article 5(1) states that the Republic of Croatia will conclude a deal with the owner of the facility in cases where the temporary user who used the facility returned to the owner on the basis of the return and care programme of the exiles, refugees and displaced persons and the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on areas of special state care has invested his own funds in that facility, thereby increasing its value, and which cases cannot be solved by the application of the current Article 9. Law amending and supplementing the Law on areas of special state care. A settlement on behalf of the Republic of Croatia was concluded by the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, with the preliminary opinion of the State Attorney's Office. This is, in fact, one of the remaining obligations of the EU accession negotiations, which the government has indeed established with its revised action plan and has in fact confirmed the intention and commitment to resolve between the other and these issues. That's it. That's it. That's it. For all questions and further clarifications, I am at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81062	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81063	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Madam Representatives, Deputy Minister. Yes, we heard it was the law in that package that committed the Republic of Croatia to joining the EU. I even dare say that this is one of the most complex laws that have been found on our benches lately. This law is passed in 2014, meaning almost 20 years after the end of the Homeland War. This law concerns what was happening on the margins of a legitimate, one defensive, one unquestioned Liberation War. But this law also concerns refugees and exiles and people who came from BiH to these areas at the invitation of the current governments, this law concerns reconstruction in the war of unnecessarily destroyed Serbian property, but also property of violently evicted people from their apartments only because they were some other nationalities. Not in one case, for example. An individual would be expelled from his home, living today in a hole, everyday people like that come to me and can't go back to his house without, for example, never leaving the Republic of Croatia and being all the time since '90. He was a loyal citizen of the Republic of Croatia. This is largely the last mention of Article 5 of this Law. We all agree that the integrity of ownership is the fundamental value of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and thus also in this explanation, it is said, among other things, that Article 5(1) determines that the Republic of Croatia will enter into a deal with the owner of the facility, that it is our obligation to Europe, in cases where the temporary user who used the facility returned to the owner on the basis of the programme and the care of refugees and displaced persons, has invested his own resources in that facility and thus increased its value, which cases cannot be solved by the application of Article 9. Law amending and supplementing the Law on the field of special state care. The settlement would, as we heard, be concluded on behalf of the Republic of Croatia by the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, with the preliminary opinion of the competent State Attorney's Office. At the end of the application and the principles of equality, the property owners which were subject to the investment without authorisation were neither at this time in the same situation as all other property owners whose property was allocated for temporary use immediately after the Homeland War under the Law on Temporary Download and Management of Certain Property. It is just the violation of the principles of equality that caused their problems and they cannot be compared to anyone because they are in a great legal uncertainty and are intervened in the calmness of the enjoyment of their owners. The same is true here, which is true, that courts or courts would have ruled in favour of temporary users, and the owners are in a position to pay the amounts of recognised investments, the costs of court proceedings and interest, if they cannot make payments according to the judgments of their property clearly go to public auctions which are ultimately covered only by part of the amount decided, because their value is on the market, and we know in which regions of the Republic of Croatia are, on the market, significantly less than the amount decided and all this clearly endangers the existence, the quality of life of those people and leads to the politicisation of the entire case when it comes to that category of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I can list a whole series of such cases, name and last name, I won't do it this time, but I'm going to give these papers, so I'm going to give them to the competent ministry, and I also want to say that the state of Croatia is in recovery, in return, invested huge money, tens of billions simply kuna, it's not controversial, and I think that this problem has to be solved, so as much as it actually costs. One word of property must be non-injurious. Among other things, it is said here that, for the infringement, for the implementation, pardon, Article 1 of this Act at the position of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing, funds amounting to 4 million kuna are provided, for the implementation of the same article it will be necessary to provide another 7.9 million kuna, which is planned to be provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015, '16. A year. The repayment of funds will be made in the account of 10 thousand kuna per month, to the beneficiary who has determined the right to recover the funds. On the return of funds to executives in the event of enforcement in cases of non-compliance with the provisions of Article 14, etc. The proposal will require an amount of €400 000, and then further for the implementation of Article 3., Article 4 of the talks on a million 700 plus 5 million, etc., etc. But if an injustice can be corrected against one family, something has already been done. It's about a law that's tough, so let's say it's about 20 million kuna, somewhere around 3 million euros. But I repeat, if it's possible to correct an injustice against only one family, we've already won something. It is also necessary to take care of those who have entered another person's apartment or house on the basis of a state act, but it cannot be that owners live as exiles in the Republic of Croatia only because of their origin and that others are tabled in their homes. However, some are expelled from these houses, living all the time in the Republic of Croatia, living as I said in the holes cannot return to their homes and that injustice according to that category of citizens, this government, this Parliament must be corrected. Today is 2014, today is not '45. And those indifferences, such injustices, in any case, should be done away with. It is also true that those who have invested, and on the basis of that State act, have entered into another person's kuna, and they must be compensated, on the basis of the necessary and useful costs of increasing the value of those properties. And who's gonna pay for that? Now this must be clearly the basis of this law as an obligation of the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because the owner can't afford it as a rule. If after that the sale in these special areas of the State concerns, means the sale of the house, as a rule the costs of the necessary useful costs, interest, etc. are incomparably greater than the value of the house itself and people generally remain without their real estate. In one word, this cannot be so in a civilized country, and therefore I personally believe that this law is too late for God to come, that these situations should have been prevented at times when all this was happening, but let's do better ever than never. I will once again quote that "Courts have in turn ruled in favour of temporary users and owners find themselves in a situation where they have to pay the amounts of recognised investments, the costs of court proceedings and interest" nothing is disputed that "if they cannot make payments according to judgments, their real estate goes to public auctions which are ultimately covered only by part of the determined amount because their value on the market is significantly less than the determined amounts". So it's not enough that someone's thrown out on the street or that they're fighting between nice and unloved, and there's still such a form of loss and all their property. So I'm going to say one more time, this law should be passed. Right in practice and reality in this country there are more problems. The restoration went only for the one, what should I call them, occupied areas, but if someone had mined a house outside that space that renovation should also take over the Republic of Croatia. I'm just mentioning that in the belovaric neighborhood, about 800 buildings, basements and nobody else can do that. For the end of what I'm only interested in, is this Law on Areas of Special State Care also relevant to those areas that are not of particular national concern? I know it doesn't apply and we need to talk about it the same way, and that question needs to be regulated regardless of what the state budget would cost and several hundred million kunas, whatever someone on this right-hand side thinks. There has been an injustice for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and this injustice this Parliament is higher than the civic obligations and roles it has in society should take on itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81064	Comrade Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81065	So I'm going to start with this last line of fellow Caine, the generalization of this kind of thing you're talking about has been wronged to the truth. You said first with such general assessments by taking a single segment by generalizing you say you start from it at the call of the government or the Government of the Republic of Croatia are assigned to the Croats from BiH. Have we forgotten how many hundreds of thousands of people have been expelled from BiH? Where could they be placed? Was that at the call of the government of the Republic of Croatia? What is a history review or historical amnesia, whatever you want? You are talking about the huge amount of houses being burned on the Croatian side, talking about 22 thousand houses, and while the court in The Hague did not say that this was one fake and a prank was so much at the time that the international organisation checked or was inspecting so many houses, not in the collapsed houses. We now hear that re-evaluation in your thesis. What about 250,000 people expelled from occupied areas? Who destroyed their houses? So if we have one problem, then let's not generalize and not change the whole history and the Homeland War and everything that's happened. It's simply incorrect, incorrect and harmful, it has very bad consequences for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81066	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81067	The gang's tearing down our houses. Shut up! ... [[Shut up shame on you.]] That's the gang that's been tearing down our houses. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The gang that destroyed our houses, Mr. Shucker, has no excuse... [[WHISPERS]] There is no excuse for those who have destroyed their houses on our part, not after "Storm" or in some other parts of the Republic of Croatia. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's no generalization, Mr. Tudjman, on my side, no amnesia whatsoever. I didn't mention 22 thousand houses, but I did mention what happened after the Homeland War. It was logical to place those refugees, exiles somewhere, it was absolutely logical but it is not logical that people who are in some other parts of the Republic of Croatia outside the area of special state care do not allow themselves to return to their apartments. We have to correct this injustice against these people. Whatever you think about it, Mr. Shucker or anyone else, and that obligation will be on us, whether this generation of politicians or any future politicians, because it simply shouldn't have happened here or here, or us towards them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81068	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81069	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, representatives of the RES. The amendments to this law in our opinion should, above all, be seen in the context of the Constitution, i.e. constitutional and legal provisions and, of course, the law and not only of this law, but of the law that has allowed both concern and concern over the years and the return of the exiled people and what every country has the right to show concern and desire to help, in particular, those who have suffered the most. Of course, all the people in the area who were affected by the war who had to leave their homes were the most suffered. I remind you that at one point, the Republic of Croatia itself took care of about a million people, meaning Croatian exiles, as well as refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, that we were mostly doing it ourselves and that we were only taking care of it, so only what could be called a roof over the head and a crust of bread invested alone from the state budget through all those years more than 15 billion kuna. So without any personal help from abroad. That is why a law on areas of special state care has been adopted years ago to make it clear that these areas should be assisted in a specific way. However, from year to year, the law is changing and from the very initial idea of supporting areas of special state care will ultimately remain almost nothing. So I would like first of all to draw attention to the provisions concerning Croatian defenders, members of their families, or families of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders. I remind myself in this sense that in the past, the Croatian Government has made a decision on the donation of houses, namely in these areas to Croatian defenders who have found themselves in these areas and who, of course, could not return home. However, a part of the Croatian defenders and members of their families had, of course, bought houses or apartments before, and this law wanted to damage the very category of Croatian citizens. The deadline for this was 2 June 2014. On 29 May 2014, the government decided to amend this law. So on May 29th to reach the deadline of June 2nd, May 29th was Thursday, June 2nd, when the deadline expired was Monday. So today we're discussing June 12th, the law is likely to be passed tomorrow, and that's June 13th, and in the meantime, as we can see, nothing happened. Therefore, all of them, this is the legal aspect of which I warn all those who did not receive rights during that period, or have not exercised the rights under the Law which allowed them to do so by June 2, 214. And of course they have the right to compensation. That's one aspect of the problem. The second aspect is that the law provided for in Article 10.b means a period of return of funds no later than 3 years from the date of entry into force of the entry into force of the law, but in paragraph 3 it is said that Article 10.b, the method of return, which is now being amended, will prescribe the recovery of funds referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government too, I suppose, refers to a regulation that was adopted only in May 2014, so more precisely on 13 May 2014. The government passed a regulation regulating the return of these funds by paying each 10 thousand kuna per month to such a family, i.e. the Croatian defender or member of his family. There is certainly a very questionable possibility for the Government to change the provisions of the law that we are trying to amend today, by the way, at the last minute. And it is our view that if a constitutional complaint is filed that it will be very easy and simply passed in the Constitutional Court because there has been a series of failures. What seems particularly unacceptable to me is that as you see from these dates I repeat, May 29th the government is changing this law because the deadline, some deadline expires June 2nd, so someone really at the last minute, the last of the last one remembered that some deadline exists in the law and went to change it. It's totally unacceptable. This proves that the processes are not fully controlled. Someone in January and February, and here in May when this regulation was adopted which amended some of the conditions of the law, had to make sure that there was a deadline and that the deadline had to be met, and if the government knew that there was no money for this year, then around 4 million kuna were foreseen, then this law should be amended with the adoption of the budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014. As far as Article 10.b is concerned, the reasoning states that for the implementation of this article, i.e. to repay funds to Croatian defenders, or members of their families who have previously purchased the property themselves, a total of less than 8 million kuna should be paid. And now the deadline for that payment is moving on 1 June 2017. I cannot truly believe that this amount of just under 8 million kuna was not found in the 2014 budget or at least in the 2015 budget, because it is an item that is absolutely, for example, in the position of the Office of the Prime Minister because we know that this position has increased significantly in relation to 2011, to take the 3-4 million there and to take the positions of the Directorate for the Management of the Government aircraft and in many others where there is space. It is absolutely certain that more than 8 million could be summed up and paid and that this amount could be paid by 2 June, i.e. to pay what the law was passed in the Croatian Parliament guaranteeing Croatian defenders and members of their families. However, the law is likely to be passed in this form, so I would only warn and ask about the new article 4 which clearly states that the proceedings before the courts will be suspended, that the restrictions on alienation or the burden on property will be deleted under official duty. The question is whether this is in line with the opinion of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia or whether these provisions were asked for the opinion of the State's Attorney's Office. I think it's a starting point because it's the same with the constitutional-legal position, but also from the point of view of non-compliance with some other laws, this provision in general is very questionable. Here are the few reasons, but primarily because of the failure to respect the deadlines set, in support of Croatian defenders and members of their families, which are families of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, we will not be able to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81070	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81071	My fellow Members, I am very sorry that you will not support this bill that still requires certain means that are secured and that people will be paid in such a way, as you yourself have explained, so to create one justice for all these people. You're saying that she didn't take care of the deadlines, or June 2nd, that the deadlines had already expired, that someone had just now remembered. All of this could have been done in 2011, and as far as the deadlines are concerned, we will never forgive ourselves, and this happened in the 1990s when people on whom there was a tenant right, regularly older people, submitted a request and imagine they lost their right to rent it because the services didn't do their job. So he handed it over, but the law was like that if they didn't solve it then he's losing his right because he's not in time. So the deadline counts when they solve it, and they regularly resolve it when these old men die so that others can get their hands on the apartment. So let's be a little self-critical, let's have so much power to admit that this is a good law, that it's a fair law and that we all support it together.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81072	Jadranka Kosor, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81073	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, we agree and disagree. So we agree in the part where we both talk about the rule of law and the legal certainty of Croatian citizens and citizens, so we agree. But what does that mean? This means that the laws must be implemented, that the laws must be applied consistently. If they cannot be implemented then they should be changed in time. This at the last time, and I believe you'll agree, this interregnum that remained from June 2nd here until the day of adoption of this law is also very discriminatory for the rule of law, but also for the final outcome of all those who might be able to sue and I suppose to win disputes. So because still today, the law under which all of this was to be discussed, first of all I am talking about Croatian defenders and members of their families, fulfilled, the state had to fulfill, not anyone, the state, until June 2nd. And so that law is still in force even though all deadlines are over. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81074	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleagues Davorin Mlakar and Milan Jurkovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81075	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to apologize for maybe repeating some of this, but it seems very important to us, so we're going to point out some of the failures in this bill that she's already made on behalf of her club and Mrs. Kosor. So there is a law before us that could be better called the Government of the Croatian Government. But absolutely certain when you analyse the existing text that the only thing should not be that law should not be called the Law on areas of special state concern. Why shouldn't you call yourself that? Because we believe that areas of special state care have a whole series of problems in which the state needs to intervene, in which the state must help to raise such areas to the level of other parts of the Republic of Croatia. And if you do a good analysis of the text of the existing law, he has four articles that talk about something other than housing. One article 20 is that the Republic of Croatia can donate to municipalities and cities in areas of special state care state land for the construction or construction of a cemetery. Two articles apply or three if you want to be more specific about tax relief and one to protect the environment. Everything else in this law concerns housing which is arranged to the point by talking about the square of houses and entering into the calculation of that square, the staircase, the inner staircases of buildings and which does not enter, and all these other areas of action where the Government would have obtained the conditions that it might have been financially needed to intervene are reduced to four articles. And that is why we hold that it would be much more correct if the law were called the House Care Act, not what kind of name it bears on areas of special state care, because it shows how much we really intend to take care of that law. The second thing we wanted to say on behalf of the club, which is unusually important, is what's already been said. On 29 May this year, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fields of Special State Care was sent to the Commission with a phenomenal explanation of the need for an emergency procedure that can be translated as soon as possible from what you wrote. An emergency procedure is proposed for the adoption of this law in order to avoid claims by Croatian defenders and members of the family of the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War for disregarding the obligation to repay those funds that the state was obliged to repay. Namely, the deadline prescribed by the current law expired on 2 June 2014 in this fee that these categories had the right to receive. The government did not come with a bill in time to avoid missing this deadline, but it tried to resolve it in a way that it passed the regulation. It adopted a regulation that entered into force on 13.5.2014, which was referred to by the objections amongst others and by the returnee communities, arguing that the government could not change the regulations or derivate the laws, that the procedure was illegal, unconstitutional. They were even harder to assess that it was a scandalous procedure given the rights that stemmed from this law. And the government seems to have accepted it in time, as such a regulation in the assessment of its legality would be very questionable, so it came with a law that we are now discussing after the deadline that existed in the existing law has already expired. And that's that legal uncertainty, that's a serious problem for the rule of law state, and that's a serious problem of respecting the constitutional principles that we stand for. And what exactly is this about? It is that certain categories of our citizens had the right to compensation for the costs they had in the areas of special state care according to the estimates at least in the eastern part of the Croatian house which were located in areas of special state care were worth up to 30000 euros in estimates, somewhere over 2000 kuna and a period within which they were to receive the refund of funds that the Government had not respected and paid nothing in 3 years. Given the shortness of time here, I will only mention one more objection to this law. Article 2 of the Law provides for the extension of the period of time of the list of housing priorities by awarding construction material in areas of special state care from one year to three years, as well as the time limit for returning these funds to purchased houses. The list, the list of priorities that determines the first citizens on these charges, was published on 30 April 2014 on the website of the Agency for Reconstruction and Housing Management. The applicants, although the administrative act was not received or informed of this act, have been published on the websites which have not been made available to many of these users. That is why the deadline has passed as the administration interprets, and counterpart Anticevic said something about deadlines in another case. A period of 8 days for complaints based on a list you didn't have a chance to see and after the deadline you lost the right to even object to that list, to object to the criteria by which you were valued, to your demands on that list, and de facto you lost the right to recover funds. If the Government has already decided on these acrobatics that are all not legal, we suggest that at least allow all citizens who have competed for these funds to influence the list of priorities so that they can report their legitimate demands and make up a list of priorities on which all those who have the right to compensation of these funds will at least reduce all the damages such a law itself brings. I'll stop here and ask my colleague Jurkovic to continue on behalf of our club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81076	Dear Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, Madam Director, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Mlakar, said well that this law should not be called the Law on areas of special state care because, in principle, other than housing, it does not create or see through its application any other matter in areas of special state concern. But we've only been a year and two months since the last amendments to the Law on Areas of Special State Care and new amendments to the law are before us. Once again by emergency procedure, once again without a public debate, and it is certain that many interested in the implementation of this law by my county there is a lot more to it than that. Of the municipalities themselves, the cities, the county of which this law is of great concern. And especially those four articles Mr. Mlakar mentioned. So it is now evident that it is about patching up the last ill-prepared and made changes to the law that has created unresolved problems whose consequences are felt by everyone in the areas. Because the fact is, and this will be confirmed, that nothing has been done in these areas in the last two years. So, what do you want with this last amendment to the law? To patch up the holes resulting from last year's changes such as resolving judicial proceedings pending against refurbishment users, which did not move into the family house after the renovation. Last year, the provision was deleted but it was forgotten to put into law what to do with the ongoing procedures. In addition to the fact that last 2.5 years nothing has been done to repay the money to defenders who bought houses from the state mainly by loans before the donation started now extends by three years and prescribes the payment of the return. The only good thing about this law is that it solves the problem of a strong administration with all the demands that people had to endure from year to year according to these last year's changes until they were given a solution to the right to housing. And the fact is also that a good part of the people who had a right or a large majority of people not reading the Internet, without watching the State Administration's list of priorities didn't do it either. I only mention the problem this government itself made when it adopted such a provision last year. Before that amendment to the law on the list of priorities, there were about 11,000 demands. Now only in Sibenik-Knin County is barely half, in Zadar as well, in Lika-Senjska 40% and less, in Sisak-Moslavina County also 40%, and I still don't count. So all together is less than half. In fact, this is a wise thing to do. Simply by amending the law, all old requirements have been kicked out of the game, and the new State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, which was created by last year's amendments to the law, has not bothered to explain to people that their demands should be renewed and additional documents attached to them. People come every day, not just to me, but probably to a large majority of parliamentary deputies, and they say they just didn't know what to do, and in the meantime it was over. But let's go back to this amendment to the law that you see has all six articles. The point is, in fact, in the last article relating to investment in busy assets, which is why this law is changing. That's a fact. I would like to remind you that before this amendment to the law, the Government accepted a colleague, Pupovac, on several occasions, had a media appearance on the subject of one of these court proceedings and pressured this and this law to be passed. You know it's a matter of reminding you of a real estate in Krnjak for which a few million kunas should have been paid for. And what is beautifully said is in the light of this article. In this way, it wants to end the 14 remaining litigation between the owners of the facilities and the temporary users to whom these facilities were allocated temporarily in possession and to use, and to improve the position of the owner in whose facilities the temporary users invested the funds. So, if it wasn't for these 14 cases, this law wouldn't have been passed even though it was necessary to patch up at least a hole that last year's legal changes made. But that's not what happened. As a result of cosmetics, this article has been added, which in some ways helps people not to have to walk from office to office and collect strong papers every year. And everything else is completely unnecessary, as is the eradication of that article regarding judicial proceedings against beneficiaries of the reconstruction that did not move into their homes but forgot that court proceedings had to be resolved in progress. The current law also allows all home users to be resolved and the state to bear costs and it is only possible that the user in that house created a business facility where the owner would then have to return some of the funds eventually through payment. And now what do we have after a year and a half of amendments to this law? Not half the people on the housing championship lists with valid demands almost none of them solved for the last two and a half years. As far as I know, only about 80 solutions have been made. Don't think it was better in 2012, until May last year when that law change was made, it was similar. With cosmetics, not fundamental changes that would help people in areas affected by war, and the great outflow of the population, this law will not help much. Because of this, the HDZ club will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81077	We figured the HDZ club wouldn't vote. Ivan Shuker replicas to the exhibition of Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81078	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Llakar's cause for my replica is in principle when it is uncritically debated about these laws and when in Croatia it is forgotten that the consequences of the war are direct, which indirectly over the past 15 years, on average, separated between 8 and 10% of the state budget, and that is something that awaits us for the next ohhoe years. It is also forgotten that hundreds of apartments and buildings that the Croatian state has restored are empty and falling. And then we pass the law to solve some partial cases just because it suits someone like that. Instead of completing one cycle and one process, which is housing in areas of special state concern, in a clear and quality way, first of all, that no longer requires great resources because we have come practically to an end. But it's sad, let's say, when you come to the Court of the Union and then in the city center you have a building with 12 apartments that were renovated 5, 6 years ago, there's been spent several million kunas in that renovation, there's no one living in those apartments, and there's no one coming, but the question of whether and when they should come to vote in the elections, or maybe they come for unemployment or retirement benefits, and then it's hard to get into that apartment and open the door or the windows to burst. It's a question of these today, I'm just stating this as an eclectic example. Such examples in the field of special state care we have as much as we want and I think that this area, therefore housing, is about time to finish once already, and not that the government is engaging in such exhibition that regulations simply want to apply something which is neither logical nor smart.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81079	Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81080	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Shuker, what you said is actually a reaction to what we heard from fellow Caine who is so keenly defending the policy of this government, so here he said that this law is, in fact, if we followed it well, which is the interest of a targeted group that is not in the interest of protecting the area from special public concerns. And that's the problem with this law. When the government introduces its own law it sends to Parliament, it states that it is being brought by emergency procedure in order to prevent justified lawsuits by defenders because they had the right to sue on the basis of an existing law all that the government has not done over the past 3 years. Then you wonder what kind of legal system we live in. So, the promoter tells you so far we've offered you something that you had as a right, but for 3 years you couldn't achieve it, we didn't give you that right, and now when we should talk about the expiry of all deadlines in which the government didn't do what the law required, we're changing these foundations, or we're extending them for the next 3 years so you don't have the right to sue the Republic of Croatia. It's a scandalous proposal that lies ahead of this house. And when you actually add to this complex the interests of a small target group that we are changing the law, then we come to the fact that it's about housing, and no concern about areas from a particular state of care, they need the state's concern much more in all other segments of life than the economy and beyond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81081	Mile Horvat, a replica of Milan Jurkovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81082	Thank you, ma'am. Col. Jurkovic, at one point in his debate, you apostropheeded the name of a colleague of Professor Pupovac's representative, so you said that he was in front of Mr. Kunić's house by his demonstration, which I assume you meant, influenced and pressured the media. So, I don't think it was a pressure on the media of Professor Pupovac, a fellow parliamentary representative, but he simply publicly expressed his dissatisfaction with a verdict that neither you as a man can say is real. So, if Mr. Petar Kunić in 96, filed an action suit against a gentleman, a temporary user of Petrovic, and for 10 years, the dispute is being conducted, and the court says that he is obliged to make up for a million and three hundred thousand kuna, now the late Mr. Petrovic, on behalf of the funds invested in increasing the quality of the housing facility, and after 10 years he returned to the house and found a mortgage, i.e. a ban on the availability of one million and three hundred thousand kuna, while Mr. Petrovic dies, his son who is abroad enters the dispute. He remains exaggerating with Mr. Petar Kunic and is asking for a million and three hundred thousand kuna from Mr. Petar Kunic for unwarranted funds. We rightly have a category of necessary resources that are allowed for the technical maintenance of the facility itself, and we have God and the category for which the owner must be asked, the category of funds Mr Petrovic invested in, as the temporary user had to get consent from the owner. By God, if we're a legal state and we want legal society, then we have to respect the basic relations in that...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81083	Milan Jurkovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81084	Thank you. Dear fellow Horvat, I had no intention of calling my colleague Pupovec, but through your replica you confirm what I said and in the debate in the very reasoning of the law, that the law is brought to suit in some way, and which is not good or not good then the name of this law. One part of Croatian citizens, and we all advocate and agree that we all have the same rights. So, if the law, and you confirm through your replica, brings about this and these public plays in... which was, in some way, to suit one part of the citizens, unfortunately or fortunately, there are few, 14 cases, then it's not a good idea for either state or for this law. I agree that everything needs to be compensated. We come from similar areas and don't go back to history. We know what it was, very well the Croatian state knows what, how and how much money was spent on everything that was done in the imposed war and... some other procedure, but let's be equal to everyone, not because of certain pressures, we pass a law that suits only one smaller part of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81085	On behalf of the Club, representative of HNS, colleague Marijan Skvarić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81086	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here in these discussions there is even a dilemma as is the Law on Special State Care, but when we speak of the emphasis that the area of special state care is determined to eliminate the consequences of war due to the rapid return of the population who lived in those areas before the Homeland War, the promotion of demographic and economic progress and the achievement of a more balanced development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia. Here would be a special emphasis that indeed this law must regulate a series of activities to eliminate the consequences of war, and the consequences of war are, indeed, the loss of life, the loss of our loved ones, and right after that, we can really say that this is a loss of roof over head, a loss of hearth, and a turning people into exiles. In order to address this and to achieve these objectives, legal measures must be implemented, and one of the models is to apply the housing model primarily to the victims of the Homeland War. We have defined these measures, they primarily talk about renting a family home or... on state property by renting a damaged family house, again on state property, giving up building land or giving up building land and materials for repairing, rebuilding and upgrading the family house or apartment, or building a family house on building land owned by applicants. In all that part when we talk about achieving goals and housing, then we have to say it, we have to do it in a way of justice, equality, and always correct all these irregularities if we spot them, and we can agree with the conclusion that they were quite right. However, when further information is received on the conduct of the State Attorney's Office and on the application of the Law on the Fields of Specific State Care, where that information provides a demonstration of the court proceedings for the return of funds against users, all of which are based on Article 14. Law on areas of special state concern. And there are also 45 cases, pending before a first-degree court or second-degree court, 90 cases have been legally completed by 39 of them during the exercise and 12 cases have been charged in favour of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. That's not small. In particular, this article defines that in the areas of special state care, a refurbishment obligation has been prescribed for the user to move into a residential facility that has been renovated by means of State budget funds within the prescribed time limit. This article also speaks of the basis for failure to fulfil the obligations of return and residence in a renovated facility in accordance with the records of the state office and for amounts is requested for decisions of nearly 5.5 million kuna, but the basis for the sale of refurbished housing amounts to more than 12 million kuna. It's also not small. That all these things we have said and stated, we are talking about justice and equality, to correct it with a great measure of this law that we have today in the debate and define so that we would nevertheless highlight the fundamental issues that are being regulated by this law and these six articles that are changing. In particular, for the implementation of Article 1 of this Act and the recovery of the funds referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be effected by 1 June 2017 at the latest. The total amount to be here... is in a slightly smaller amount of 12 million kuna, and it is planned to secure in the state budget for 2015 and '16. A year. Of course, the refund will be made... in the amount of 10 thousand kuna per month to the beneficiary who has established the right to repay funds from the total amount determined. It shall also be well defined in Article 12(7), where it is prescribed that, in the case of requests included in the lists, in particular paragraph 1 of that Article, for which no decision on the exercise of the right to housing has been adopted in the current year, the applicant shall submit a new application for housing care. The proposed amendment to that paragraph provides that that part may be transferred within the following year, of course, the place of application must be re-established and the applicant shall thus be exempt from the obligation to re-apply the application and thus the administrative procedure shall also be relieved. This legislative proposal addresses the issue of judicial proceedings brought before the entry into force of this law. The parties in court proceedings initiated... on the effect of this law will be taxed on the burden of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia to bring them into an equal position with all other beneficiaries of the right to rebuild. It is also important to highlight the proposed amendment to paragraph 2 of Article 10b of the law to enable the implementation of that article of the law, i.e. the return of the funds of Croatian defenders and family members of the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who meet the conditions set out in that article. It is proposed in that law and the wording of the yearly words referred to in Article 12 is deleted. The law on areas of special state care and replaces the plan to be adopted on a three-year basis, not on a one-year basis, which greatly increases the possibility of a quality solution to certain requirements. And Article 5 of the bill seeks to end disputes between the owners of the facilities and the temporary users to whom these facilities have been allocated, both temporarily in possession and in use. It is important to stress here that the integrity of ownership is one of the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and the basis for interpretation of the Constitution, and this provision requires improving the position of the owner in whose facilities temporarily invested the funds. That's it. users are without permission most often because it is always good for us not to ask anyone anything, without the permission of the owner or state to whom the property was temporarily assigned to intervene in them. And also after the return of both country and the completed long-term return process, owners are faced with judicial proceedings initiated by temporary users of their assets by demanding the compensation of the funds invested. Unfortunately, the courts have ruled in turn in favour of temporary users, and the owners find themselves in a situation where they have to pay penalties or amounts of recognised investments, costs of court proceedings and interest. The correction of this law and inequality is based on a legal decision to grant temporary users all the costs invested, and the Republic itself has committed to returning them invested in a way that has entered into the legal position of the owner and also the property owners are exempt from the obligation to repay the funds of unpaid investigations and the costs of litigation and enforcement proceedings, and the Republic of Croatia assumes on itself the payment of outstanding claims and the costs of the litigation process. And in that part, we can still say that over the past 20 years, we've had a lot of lawsuits that have been filed, lawsuits that have been going on for a very long time, and indeed on the basis of all these disputes, the need to bring about legal solutions that will finally solve these problems. Of course, it's part of the package we signed with the EU and we want to be a rule of law first. And that after 20 years, we want to finish this cycle of housing taking care of our people. Here is also the part of the HNS club Liberal Democrats will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas of Specific State Care, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81087	Thank you very much. colleague of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81088	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here's my colleague Skurpić, you say we want to, the law is passed because we want to be a legal state. You mentioned Article 10.b and moving deadlines, and in an explanation, I will read it in an explanation of why the law is adopted by an urgent procedure the Proposer says "Therefore, an amendment to Article 10.b paragraph 2 is proposed. The Law on Areas of Special State Care means moving the deadline for payment to Croatian defenders and members of their families "to avoid the lawsuits of Croatian defenders and members of their families, or the mortally injured Croatian defenders from the Homeland War for disregarding the obligation to repay those funds". So in this argument, the state itself says that it did not respect the obligations of the law, therefore it cannot be an explanation that we will support what we all want and what we have said ourselves, we want to be a legal state. Because the rule of law here itself says that it is not a legal state and this argument in my humble legal opinion can be an excellent basis for claims by Croatian defenders who are not met with obligations under the law passed by the rule of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81089	Marijan Škurić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81090	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, yes, we can really agree that we must have understanding because so far we have been in these 20 years, and almost no one has complied with the basics of the law, nor the users of housing, nor the defenders. They know the conditions prescribed by the laws themselves that there are many gaps in the field on which I was present around POS and all other things have a lot of courts. I think now with this solution and the state must finally put an end to all this and say what needs to be done. I think this law contributes to it, and the defenders are very much responsible and responsible for us to go to them for their benefit and to solve that cycle of care in these 20 years finally once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81091	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81092	It is this colleague that you pointed out in the debate that this bill establishes a fair relationship with the defenders that these funds will be recovered if they bought these properties in these areas, but you also speak of an injustice which was not only partially and in the existing law, but because it was not respected, not only by the state, but also by the users and by the owners. And now you see in the war, so other than this common trouble that hit us, people who had no place to go back and Croatia passed the Law on the availability of so-called. Special property. We know whose property it was, and now that these houses were finally renovated, of course, they are not yet regrettable, these people who used this property, who were being sued by their own property because they had certain funds to use at all, so that they could bring in their purpose and live. But what the court rulings have shown and what we see is not going into practice then it's logical to change the law, that those costs that weren't necessary, so I'm not going to go into court proceedings. But if now the state wants to make peace between these people and make up for and damage both the owner and the user now, it's causing a fight here. So who does some conflict and scandals always fit? The state is taking over the burden and in 2002 it took over the burden for all the collapsed facilities and outside these areas that are the result of terrorist acts, so-called. The four little ones that we have brought, the four little laws that we have defiled, and such men.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81093	Marijan Škurić, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81094	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleagues, we can really agree here because if we just go to the State Department for Reconstruction and Housing and listen to their problems these 20 years that they had to really do the full power to do what was most important to me and to help people who had lost their roof over their heads, who had to be exiles that we had to do everything we could to solve it as soon as possible. And the problems were that the legal procedure was not known, the problems were that we really wanted much more than it belonged to us. And in that part of what's most important is that you pointed out that the state here has maximum done to everyone who's... Help and all that cost that will come from the lawsuit, from... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Things put on their backs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've secured that for the next two years. And I really hope by 2017 we can say that we have done everything to help our families sufferers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81095	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, colleague Krešimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81096	Thank you very much, well-respected deputy president, dear Mr. Pugliz with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas of Specific State Care with the Final Proposal of the Law. I would like to start by saying that the other day I was at the Round Table in Osijek-Baranja County, which was just organized by the County of Osijek-Baranja and the returnee community on which it was discussed exactly this and what was expected and what was to happen in 1.1.2015. In fact, when we say the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas of Special State Care, one would think that it is going with some law that will help areas of special state concern and perhaps change what was badly done with amendments to the law in 2013 but this is not exactly happening to this bill. In view of the Republic of Croatia, huge money is invested in the return and restoration of the Republic of Croatia, little or nothing in staying but also in this law but also in what was passed in late 2013, the departure of people from the area of special state care, from areas that were destroyed, from areas that were lagging behind. And we certainly expected then the Regional Development Act that would try to balance and develop the Republic of Croatia. In view of the Law on Areas of Special State Care, the Law on Areas of Special State Care of the National No. '86, '08, '57, '11, '51, '13. And 148th of '13. Areas of special state concern of the Republic of Croatia as well as incentive measures for their recovery and development shall be identified. The areas of special state concern have been identified in order to achieve a more balanced development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia, to foster demographic and economic progress, to complete the reconstruction programme, to return to the population, to the permanent housing of the area of special state care. Three groups are set. Namely, the first and second groups under the circumstances resulting from the aggression of the Republic of Croatia and the third group were established according to the criteria of economic development of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, by looking at these criteria and looking at the damages we have suffered in the Republic of Croatia of 236 billion 431 million, we can ask ourselves who attacked us and if anyone has paid any damage to the Republic of Croatia in recent years. It's not. This is the first question we should face in the Republic of Croatia and ask that those who attacked us and paid what they broke in the Republic of Croatia. And not to mention 180 thousand destroyed homes, 25% of the economy that has been devastated. It has been 19 years since the Storm, but we also remember on June 2, 1997, the arrival of the first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman in the White Manastir and we remember his clear promises. And what he has promised has been fulfilled. Areas of special state care and houses have been restored. But looking at the past few years as it has not invested in the economy, as it has not encouraged the smooth development of the Republic of Croatia, while the lagging of the Republic of Croatia has been encouraged in some parts of the eviction. And when we look at the demographic map then we clearly see that some spaces are black and our HDSSB question is where it's going to be areas of special state concern in 2020 and don't give God'2030. Because clearly there is no strategy to help these areas. And that's why we expected the Regional Development Act exactly where we expect things to change. But looking at these few articles, but the same thing I talked about with the Community of Returnees, because we just had a community of exiles, today we have a returnee community and soon they will probably change their name to the community of immigrants because few people remain in those areas, because they do not have a life existence, they have no job and Croatia is not developing in these parts. However, when we look at individual articles, first of all, the Act extending the period of return to defenders who bought their own house in areas of special state care until 1 June 2017 is extended. We will go with the amendment that it can be maximum by 1 June 2016. Because if cars are purchased in Croatia for 330 million kuna then it is unfortunate that Croatia does not have 8 million kuna to pay for several Croatian defenders living in those areas. This deadline, which expired on 2 June 2014, was also tried with today's amendments, but was also corrected by the regulation, and has so far been spent on this particular purpose for defenders to be paid back 0 kuna. So what did this government do to comply with Croatian laws, but also to violate the legal security of citizens. She was also wrong about the Constitution. Therefore, it is certain that constitutional lawsuits are worrying them, but they are also concerned by the numerous lawsuits of our fellow citizens and that is why we are going with this change, but this change should be as short as possible. Well, yesterday we had the law on interest. If the state doesn't pay anything, if it's prescribed by law, then let's install interest into this law to pay and interest to our Croatian defenders who live in that area, who went back to those premises with their hearts and try to revive life in those areas. But seeing the return community manifested itself, and the government does not respect it, and regulations try to derivate the laws, this procedure is illegal, unconstitutional, and I find it scandalous. Looking at this emergency procedure, it makes it clear that it is never seen for a few months in advance, but a day-to-day policy is being conducted in the Republic of Croatia. That's why our situation is like this, looking from finance, looking from the economy, but also from other segments in the Republic of Croatia. A while ago, colleagues said that these were not large amounts individually, the houses were up to 50 thousand marks, meaning up to 200 thousand kuna, and surely that if it were paid suddenly it would help those people living in those areas, not to stretch them like gum for the next two years. Therefore, the HDSSB club is because if it goes into this already, let's solve it as quickly and more operationally as possible, it's government's few cars or some costs that shouldn't have been budget costs at all. So when we look at Croatian duty, when we watch what was done in 2000, we inherited a Parisian, London debt club. The renovation was made until 2000 and we owed 47 billion kuna, 2008. 100 billion kuna, 2014 external debt has crossed 240 billion kuna and that money has been spent. And that we don't have like the Republic of Croatia writing 8 million kunas for these people living in those areas, that's a question for all of us to look in the mirror and say it's a shame. Those 8 million kunas must be found in the budget, paid off, and that should be a priority. However, also when we look at what is happening in Article 2 of the Law, which provides for the extension of the deadlines and the list of priorities for housing, the allocation of construction material on PPDS, then we also hear from the exiles that they are not satisfied because the list of priorities was published on 30 April 2014 on the pages of the Agency for Reconstruction and Housing Care, and applicants did not receive a revision of the list which is an administrative act. In these areas 80% of citizens did not use the Internet, so they had no idea the list was published. How they found out, however, so they filed objections that were rejected due to a missed period of 8 days. It's the same problem people living in that space face. And also when we analyze certain demands, seeing that there were once 11,000 demands, it's only good that people won't have to file new demands, that they'll take care of the old. People spend money, and there's no result. Looking at the area of Osijek-Baranja County there were 508 requests, but there are also plenty of objections to these very lists, and I think we should withdraw that list, priorities and restore the whole process, but go public so people know it, and not just on the Internet. Therefore, if we want people to stay in those areas, if we want to have PPDS, and after 1.1.2015, all PPDS residents will have a smaller consumer basket. When we talk about income tax, when we talk about those benefits they've had and barely survived so far, how they'll live since 1.1.2015. We expect a new exodus of people from these areas precisely because of existence, hard survival, and even those who have found work outside those environments and went perhaps somewhere to rent. What concerns us is still going to have to pay real estate taxes, real estates that have no one to sell, real estate that nobody's interested in living for. Here are the questions we have to ask here in the Croatian Parliament, which we are looking for answers to, and this law does not solve these problems. Therefore, we expect at the HDSSB club to put the Regional Development Act on the agenda as soon as possible to talk about the development coefficient, to talk about those who do not have to survive, to talk about the unifying of units of local and regional administrations that are lagging behind in the area. Therefore, we will go with the amendments, we cannot support this because this is not a solution for the defenders either, but there is no solution for the people living in that area, there is no clear strategy on what will happen to these areas in the Republic of Croatia because so far we have had an example of people moving from these areas. Today we have examples that people are mass evicting from cities in that area. According to where Croatia will be, Croatia is not only the city of Zagreb, Croatia is also Donja Motičina, Croatia is also the Beli Manastir, Croatia is both Popovac and Petlovac, Croatia is every part, and especially the part that is most destroyed in the war, and these are the PPDS that are supposed to be PPDS and the imperative of the return of life and economic development. Now, this is exactly the law that doesn't work out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81097	Now we'll move on to the replicas. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81098	Thank you very much. Comrade Bubalo, you've discussed this very well. See when areas of special national concern have been declared and particularly those affected by war and war, or occupied. Then it was also public that experts, that the personnel who came to these areas would work with stimulant in almost double the salary rather than in the place where they had worked and lived so far. So here I was as a surgeon thinking about going to work at Knin, say, or somewhere else to bring life back to life and how I would have certain benefits to say. There was no more talk about it later. And look, today it's complete, there's not a single word about it anymore. That the state, therefore, requested the renewal of the procedure for and all documents, the extraction of all documents for the construction of houses in areas of special state care, and then said that where there is no internet, there was no people saw and there was a problem with such demands. There is also an 8-day deadline and no subsequent request is recognised. That's a big problem. Furthermore, when you talk about demographic poverty in these areas, look at the list of our counties, see Ličko-Senj County 50,000, 51,000 inhabitants. If we're looking at moving out of the country then let's look at these municipalities that are at the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. I speak here starting with the court of Glina, Vojnić and other parts, say Lapac, etc. Well, soon enough, it is already as the soft belly of Croatia, and soon it will be completely released to you precisely because in those parts nothing is invested in survival and life in those parts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81099	Thank you very much. Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81100	Here's colleague Grubisic, we've talked a lot about this law between us at the club, but also with the returnees. But what is particularly worrying is that since 1.1.2015 when we talk about income tax, it will kill the consumer basket, kill the living standards of people in those areas, and certainly as a HDSSB club, that we are concerned about the future and life of people in those areas and that they will remain at all. What you just said, and that's what we said in the debate. So eight days was too short, people weren't informed, they didn't know. So how many percent of people even have the Internet in a special state-of-the-art space? Very small. Therefore, it should go public on HTV to get people to know each other and to know what happens and clear deadlines. But what's particularly worrying is a black demographic image in those areas where people by 2020, and especially by watching 2030, what happens and what statistics are but especially what we feel every day on the ground talking to these people. So who's going to live in that space anyway? That is what clear strategies need, and there is a clear law on regional development.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81101	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81102	Thank you very much. Comrade Bubalo, you said in your statement you weren't looking, so speaking of this, in the opinion of the opposition to these failures that you weren't looking at at least a few months in advance. I would say that this law, or amendments to the law, and especially when you read the arguments, is clear that the legislator himself is aware that he is not looking back for several months or years. In this context, it is clearly stated here that last year the provisions in this law were amended, which no longer retired those whose houses had been renovated, so they had an obligation to move in, to live, and not to alienate within 10 years, etc. So it's erased. But the legislator himself says, however, I quote this amendment to the law, so last year there are no provisions that would solve the problem of court proceedings initiated under that provision that were under way or were completed. So it happened in the past. Therefore, the legislator, or legislator, forgive me, we are the legislators. The bill promoter did not look backwards last year, but now, in advance, let alone look back, and should have waited as it was seen from the reasons just beginning in 2014 for the State's Attorney's Office to send a list of all the procedures that are under way or have already been completed, i.e. in which procedures have even been carried out. And that's something I don't think is definitely acceptable. And you mentioned eight million kunas needed to be paid to Croatian defenders in the context of writing eight kunas. That's the only thing I don't agree with. I think eight million kuna is big money because someone needs to earn it. But I believe you said that in the sense that I agree that and in the budget for this year and next year it is possible to find that money if we give up something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81103	Thank you. Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81104	Thank you very much. In fact, ruling or this government is weakly listening to the voice of the people and even less to the opinion of the opposition. But we'll be loud enough to get to the government, and this law to the ears to at least start thinking. This government didn't look back, but it didn't look back particularly. And that's why we have this kind of legal solution that's being made from today to tomorrow. Namely, judicial proceedings are one of the ways the government has been pressured to make such a legal solution. If something isn't going verbally, it means it's going the way of the court, and that's why this solution is in front of us today. About what you just said 8 million kunas ago. Seeing as we're in debt for 10 billion kuna two weeks ago, then I say 8 million kunas are peeable. Looking at Croatia's debt today of 240 billion, looking at what the state budget is spent on then and when you close your eyes, you can bury this amount on each item.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81105	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81106	When you talk about this bill, you say that it will not solve important issues, especially all of these areas of special state concern and that we need a special Regional Development Act where people would start and work and can live and not emigrate. That's where I fully agree with you. However, this bill of law he solves certain human fates where he pays the court costs, where he pays those investments whether they're useful or some kind of luxury, is not ours to talk about, correct the injustice and give the defenders exactly the refund of those funds all of this is done by the state. So she and one segment are looking, looking at the other. We get around it, we always get each other's eyes on each other and about whether it was necessary. I think it was necessary because a certain group of people couldn't dispose of their own property. Her country has decreed that someone else will live in her. And now it's normal for her to take over those costs as well as rebuilding the houses of the people who were destroyed. You're saying that these funds are small, that it's a shame that we haven't found the funds so far to pay the defenders something even less than 8 million kunas. I can agree that it's a shame that it's not paid so far, but now that this bill wants to get rid of it, you're saying it's a shame again. It's a shame everything that hasn't been solved by now, and when it tries to solve something, then I think it should be agreed on. Although it is true that all good solutions have only one flaw, it is that they are brought too late.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81107	Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81108	It's very short. I'm pleased to meet you, my colleague Ingrid, that we agree that the Regional Development Act is necessary so that these spaces after 1.01.2015 wouldn't be places where people won't live. This is a priority and it should go into the procedure as soon as possible to discuss exactly the Regional Development Act. You said it was a human destiny, but if we solve it today, then let's not settle it for another two years without interest. Let's settle this urgently. Or if he's getting rid of it for a year and then let them get the interest that belongs to him. Because yesterday we were talking about interest laws or tight interest rates. Therefore, it is necessary to help people, not to surround them, not to wait, but to resolve it immediately. And I'm thinking, looking at the state budget, looking at these huge responsibilities that it's the smallest problem of 8 million kuna. But what matters is that this is coming too late into our benches and that it should have been solved long ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81109	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81110	Thank you very much. When you look at the implementation of the 2013 Budget, you will see that 8 million kuna could have been found because there in the current reserve some 55 million were paid for the lawsuits, and on that reserve it remained unused somewhere around 70, 80 million. But it's just like this, by the way. The reason for my replica is your conclusion that there are opportunities on the Internet and on the Ministry's websites that people can complain or report. Now, if you don't want anyone to see something, then you usually publish it where you know in principle that most of the people that tang it won't look at it. This is also the case here, as is the case for that workplace you know somewhere down in Primorje, so it's published in Slavonia because Slavonia's voice is a very read paper in the Primorje. So here and here about this Internet. However, it is not good for the government to change the laws in this way, to fly in with regulations because it is a common custom of this government. Remember the Act on Pre-departure settlement, here is passed on Friday and next Thursday the government amends the law with 45 articles, and this law adopts a completely different look, adopts a completely different game rules and what happens happens. So that there was a good desire, that the government wanted to really solve the problem could have done it but unfortunately this kind of problem was only to calm tensions in areas that suffered the war unfortunately opens them up. Because the reaction of people in the area of special state care to such an amendment to the law is extremely negative. And that's the truth that we have to do, look, colleagues of Anticevic, talk to people a little bit, so you'll see. Go to Benkovec and see what people tell you. ... That's right, go to Benkovec, go to Ovrovec, go wherever you want, go to Lyco, and see what people tell you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, definitely he's the kind of guy who deepens tensions, and now we can talk whatever we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81111	Thank you. Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81112	Thank you very much. A fellow Shuker, looking at the implementation of the 2013 Budget and looking at the deficit we had, 17 billion kunas, then surely this deficit needed to be found and solved because 8 million kunas are not a problem. You've said 55 million kuna for lawsuits, but also for lawsuits that have been sour in our courts for 10, 20 and 30 years. This clearly speaks of the legal ineffectiveness of our country where we should speed up procedures and where one cannot wait for justice for 20 years. You've made a good point when we're talking about the web and the complaints that they didn't want to see it exactly. But I still estimate that they published it in Slavonia voice so that people would accept it much better and read it and report it to each other than they did on websites. It would be much better to read because the great reading of the Voice of Slavonia in Slavonia and Baranja, and many exiles are connected with various people and returnees, and would surely convey that information before we allegedly had this information on the web. But the reactions of the people on the PPDS, and on this round table that I've been on, but in conversations with people on the ground, the reaction to this is negative, they say this should be resolved as soon as possible, the reactions say it shouldn't wait 2 years, the reactions say it can be found in the budget already. Therefore, we respect these reactions of people who have felt all those difficulties of war on their backs and who feel the difficulties of living on PPDS at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81113	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81114	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Bubalo, you were talking about the positive effects that this law should take. Among other things, in that economic area, economic recovery and, of course, the remnant of people in those areas. And unfortunately, what is confirmed is that, as Col. Jurkovic said, nothing is done, but I am concerned that one more thing is unfortunately not understood or wanted to understand the problem. So let's say one thing that may not have been mentioned, which is that it's mostly rural areas where people deal with agricultural production, agricultural production, they've been doing, let's say, they've done better, and we know what kind of branches agricultural production has come into, and what happened. So they had already experienced one, apart from the war - suffering and all, they experienced another punishment. And now in this part, of course, if there's no such thing, if there's no incentive, there's no even development of that part, and in any case there's that regional development strategy of yours. Well, a short time ago in this high house was a delegation from the Turkish Parliament who said they supported, of course, all the opportunities and assistance of rural areas in the design of agricultural production. In this way, they contribute to survival, contribute to even regional development. So that we must be taught by parliamentarians from the Turkish Parliament? Every honor and respect, but I think that in that part is certainly, and to put emphasis only on housing, it is a broader concept that should be given in a very important way and mainly in this part of agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81115	Kresimir Bubalo, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81116	Here's my colleague, Stephen, in the replica you were talking about economic recovery, there's no economic recovery there, we've got a submerged economy that's survived at this age. But when we talk about staying, staying is a questionnaire at this point is a good part of people living in rural space. And as you said, I'll quote, "They were farming.", we all see how much the decline in meat, milk production, everything our farmers produce has no one to sell, and what hit them most is all the calculations and loans they've raised, they've been raising on the basis of the incentives that were in 2008, which have fallen drastically compared to today. And what happens to them while some for loans to HBOR doors are wide open, they are in a situation that they can't even refinance their obligations in 2008 or 2007 when they believed they could survive in that area by farming, by taking loans and by believing that they could survive the hard work of their hands, their family who wanted to return to that space. Today, it is evident that all the calculations they had in 2006, 2007 and 2008 from their hard work cannot live there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81117	Comrade Juhas, you can't, you have to pick up the replica when there's a basic exposure. On behalf of SDP representative Zeljko Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81118	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Let me start by saying that we will support this legal solution in front of the SDP club. And I would just look back at these five, six articles of the law that sort of regulates it. Article 1 states: "The Croatian defenders and members of the family of the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who, before the entry into force of the Houses and Houses Donation Regulation in the areas of special care, bought their own funds or loans to a family home owned in areas of special state care, have the right to return to the sale price without interest on condition that they do not own another habitable residential facility or if they sold it, donated or in any other way alienated after 8 October 1991. "years." Due to the lack of financial resources that we have already heard a lot about in previous statements, caused by the overall economic crisis, the return of the funds referred to in Article 10.b of the Law on areas of special state care to Croatian defenders and members of their families has not been implemented. In view of the fact that the period for reimbursement of the funds of 3 years from the entry into force of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on areas of special state care is insufficient, this period shall be extended until 1 June 2017. In fact, in the rebalancing of the 2014 budget, financial resources are provided which are sufficient to begin with the return of funds to Croatian defenders. A regulation was also adopted on how to return the purchase price without interest to Croatian defenders and members of the family of the mortally injured, imprisoned, missing, deceased Croatian defender. This Regulation shall enter into force on 13 May 2014. The repayment deadline expires on 2 June 2014. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the area of special state care shall be governed by the conduct of the administrative area of housing. As a result of the volume of work, it has been shown that it would be more effective to bring the plan on a three-year basis rather than on a one-year basis. This legislative proposal proposed a period of 3 years. In the event that the request is not resolved in the current year, the request can be transposed in the following year, no new administrative costs need to be met and administrative procedures respected, but simply classified as priorities for next year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on areas of special state care is deleted by the obligation that the family who has obtained the right to provide housing by giving building material for repair, renovation and upgrade of the family house or apartment, or the construction of a family house on building land owned by the applicant is liable and resident for at least 10 years. In this way, restrictions on ownership rights imposed on the owner in such a way as to be obliged to move into a restored family home or apartment within a certain period of time. In addition to Article 4, all judicial enforcement procedures initiated pursuant to Article 14, paragraph 4 of the Law on Special Care Areas are suspended. All judicial enforcement procedures initiated under Article 14, paragraph 1, point 4 of the Law on the areas of special state care relating to the return of funds invested against the beneficiary of the right to donate building materials for repair, renovation and upgrade of the family house or apartment, i.e. the construction of a family house on the building land owned by applicants who are under way, are also suspended. In accordance with Article 12(2) of the Law, a provision stipulating the refurbishment of the user is deleted to move into a residential facility that has been renewed by means of a state budget within the prescribed period. The facility shall remain for at least 10 years without being allowed to sell the facility during that time, and in the case of unfulfilled liabilities it shall be obliged to recover the funds spent in the reconstruction of the facility. Article 5 provides that the Republic of Croatia will enter into a settlement with the owner of the facility in cases where the temporary user who used the facility returned to the owner on the basis of the programme of return and disposal of exiles, refugees and displaced persons has invested his own funds in that facility and thus increased its value. That was the most controversial thing so far, however, here I am saying this legal solution, I believe that it will also be regulated, i.e. to the satisfaction of both the user and the owner of the property. It has invested means its own resources in the facility and thus increased its value, which cases cannot be solved by the application of Article 9. Law amending and supplementing the Law on areas of special state care. In this way, it wants to end the 14 remaining litigation between the owners of the facilities and the temporary users who were temporarily assigned to the property and to use it and to improve the position of the owner in whose facilities the temporary users invested the funds. It is important to stress that property integrity is one of the highest values of the Constitutional Order of the Republic of Croatia and the basis for interpreting the system. Ownership as a legal relationship in which the legal matter belongs to a specific legal entity, i.e. the owner of injured investments by temporary users without the knowledge and permission of the owner. Owners of property in which it was invested without authority, and above all the right to protection of ownership, as well as the right to respect for personal and family life and the right to a home. With this solution, I think that, as I said before, this will be resolved to the satisfaction of both the user and the owner. ... By applying, means... equality of property owners which were subject to an investment without authorisation were neither at present in the same situation as all other property owners whose property was allocated to temporary use immediately after the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was a violation of the principle of equality that caused their problems, and they cannot be compared with anyone because they are in a great legal uncertainty and are intervened in the calmness of enjoying their ownership. Namely, on the return to the homeland and... the long-term return process of property faced with judicial proceedings initiated by temporary users, their property seeking compensation for the funds invested. In turn, the courts ruled in favour of temporary users and the owners are in a position to pay the amount of recognised investments, costs of court proceedings and interest. If they cannot make payments, they shall, according to the judgments of their real estate, go to a public auction which is ultimately covered only by part of the determined amount because their value on the market is significantly less than the determined amounts. All this endangers the existence and quality of the lives of these people and leads to the politicization of the entire process of return. The owners of these houses have been in a very difficult existential position for years and have no secured accommodation by the state. The purpose of the real estate allocation to temporary users was to protect the property of the owner... the sensitivity of the company with the then threatened group of exiles, refugees who were to find a temporary roof over the head in the allocated properties. Despite the fact that temporary users were allowed only to make necessary repairs, many of them took extraordinary and unnecessary infrastructure procedures. Although these investments in private assets are without a warrant or authorisation, temporary users have recognised all the costs invested, and the Republic itself has committed to returning them invested in a way that... is in the legal position of the owner. The property owners subject to unauthorized investment are in a much more unfavourable situation than the temporary users of these properties who have been taken care of in the Republic of Croatia in order to become owners of the allocated real estate and this inequality needs to be corrected. And in the end, I would just look back, there were speeches in previous exhibitions about demographic renewal not only about the Law of Special State Care but it can be passed on to the rest of our Beautiful One. It is certain that the Regional Development Act will cover this and that solutions will be found so that not really certain areas of Beautiful Ours will be left without the population or how things are now standing and where the problem is not known in mountainous areas in Slavonia, not only that every year and every ten year census, there is another big problem for me, which is the problem of the old population. So to say all of this, the Regional Development Act is likely to keep the Proposer in mind, so when we discuss this, we will give our opinion on that as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81119	Thank you. Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81120	In fact, a colleague will not quite resolve this by law relating to regional development, part will for areas that have small coefficients, etc. However, it is evident that a map of regional support for the Republic of Croatia is made and that there are two regions when we talk about support. It is the same support in the city of Zagreb and our Lenjavska Varoša, thus injustice has already been done. And I hope by the Regional Development Act that these injustices will at least try to change because the space especially of Slavonia and Baranja will especially remain empty.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81121	Reply to replica Željko Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81122	I agree with my colleague, but I am convinced that the promoter will take into account the very areas and that, with these criteria that are now mentioned, he will take some other criteria specifically for certain areas and simply won't allow the parts of the Beautiful One to remain without our inhabitants.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81123	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81124	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Pugliz, head of state's office with an associate. I will make the views of our club on these amendments and the additions of the Law on the areas of special care that we think that although it is a very simple, nomotechnical law, there are only 4 members, we think that it is essentially very important and fundamentally socially very good, fairer than it was and even in some way I think it is politically wiser to some of its solutions. These changes correct anomalies in this matter of previous governments, we think that the current government also entered quite late into the process of looking at this problem, just for a few interventions of our club's parliamentary issues, etc. It was understood what the weight of this issue was and it was realized that here, besides politics, it was actually about human fates, about a few or hundreds of human fates existential in specific existential difficulties, precisely because of the indetermination of the basic Law on areas of special state care. And that's why we think that these changes should have been made, we think it's a good thing that we're going through an emergency procedure because for some life situations we've long since been late, and for them, this emergency procedure has already been late. That is what we have pointed to, the UNHCR reports of the international community pointed to, and in every report by the Ombudsman's staff, it is precisely marked cases related to these four amendments. That is why we fully support the adoption of these amendments, and we think this will complete the segment of return to reconstruction and housing within the basic law itself, and we think that through the established state office that started to work which is also fairly well, but also humanely well teamed and who have entered into the very essence of the problem and started to deal very well with these things. In any case, I also agree with my predecessor colleague Bubal, who said that we all expect the adoption of a new Regional Development Act and that law to be one of the fundamental laws of our future development. We'll see how the proposer came up with this whole problem. In any case, just a brief comment, so the division into such two regions as it was done to us with the same speech, little confuses us that people in certain municipalities in Istria are less developed than we are in our eastern or western Slavonia and will receive according to that division statistically, or in percentage part of the support than we will get. That's hard to explain to our people. Well, that's what I'm talking about. Therefore, Article 1 very briefly refers to the category of defenders and the return of their funds, their own funds invested in the purchase of houses or apartments. It is said very briefly that the return will take place no later than 1.6.7. we absolutely support this. Let me remind you when we talked about the rebalancing first of the basic budget, later on about the budget rebalancing for 2014, we were looking for significant funds, I think it's about the first variant of 10 million kuna we've been looking for for a position precisely to realise this position. It was not accepted in the budget as a whole. I think we got half of it, so we had to intervene again with rebalancing later. So we have an interest, and we think that it's good to get rid of this category as soon as possible, even before even three years ago, we think that people need to get their funds back if they're allowed by law. And it doesn't have to wait three years, it's not so much money that it would stretch through some kind of long period. In addition, we, as I see it, this Article 1 needs to be brought into line with these deadlines. The law said the return on funds stands at 2.6 and the government of the regulation said it would enter into force 13.5. In 2014, for these reasons, this article was to be adopted, and I thus interpret it and therefore support the adoption of this Article 1 of the amendments and additions. Article 2 is a list of the championships where it is defined, so it's just a word: "annual", it is deleted and it is added instead: "three-year-old". We also warned in time, and through the amendment, we said that it is not good if the list of priorities is established on an annual basis. We said that these problems would come to an end, that because of the teamwork, and because of the funds, this year's list cannot be exhausted until the end, and then all those who are not on those lists are, whose items have not been realised, the rights are not realised and the requirements have to be renewed next year, again people are exposed to some unnecessary costs. That's when we said it was possible in some urban environments, it's hard in some passive environments where you don't even have basic communication. And that's why it's good that the proposer corrected this in a way that the lists are valid for a three-year period. We think it's going to be a much better solution. In any case, it is not bad to accept and suggest that the public should be informed about this whole process in an adequate way because there was also an objection that the people on the ground did not know by the 5th month what their obligations were in terms of submitting these requests. Article 4 is very important to us, because this was an initiative, that is, our amendment, where we asked for it in time to be deleted in Article 14(4), it was accepted. And from that, the possibility of solving a series of things that have so far been at the expense of the users of the renovation has been opened. So in the previous solution, there were four very restrictive elements and this is mandatory immigration within some period, the use of a certain facility for at least 10 years, the ban on alienation of that facility which was obtained through reconstruction and, of course, if it is not respected, there was a threat and obligation, a threat of court and the obligation to repay the funds invested. We think that through these four restrictive elements is at one point practically up to no sense brought the concept of renewal. Because if you had all these restrictive provisions, then people are twice punished. They were punished in a way that they had been destroyed first, after the state had restored them, then she restrictively tied them up to have to move in within a certain period if they did not, then they would return the fine, on top, under mortgage. If he doesn't live shorter, so he has to live for at least 10 years to alienate something and his is, so if he has the right to have it, it's a fundamental right. And if, therefore, this is what we are, these changes are now corrected by this kind of legal indifference and injustice at last towards people. And it was said then that all judicial procedures that were under way would be suspended, which is very good. In addition, all judicial enforcement procedures initiated accordingly to the famous Article 14 relating to the recovery of the funds invested are also suspended. And the performances that have been started or have been completed and which have several hundred cases in such lawsuits, based on these actions, these people, the users of these renovated facilities, will be compensated at the expense of the state office, and will be compensated without interest. We think it's a logical thing, that it's very fair, that it's very fair. We've had two changes, we've had changes to the law, there's always been a question of what to do with those cases until these changes. Therefore, the DORH also warned of this and said that before these changes were abolished, Article 14, paragraph 4, there were still 45 items that were under way, 90 items that were legally completed and 12 items that were even forced to be charged in such a way that someone's house, to someone's retirement, had a country's pension to repay the funds invested. We have such a case of marriage mate Zigic from Pakrac whose family house was mined in Pakrac, the house was renovated after 14 years of refugee, as these old people did not return to the renovated house within 30 days after the technical case was carried out they were obliged to repay the funds. In 2011 the Daruvar municipal court ordered them to return an amount of 245,000 kuna with a tight interest because they had not returned within 3 months of the technical examination of the renovated house. It's about old people living off a pension of thousands and 40 kuna. For the state to go with the job. So if we accept it that way, then the reason for bringing these changes is good, political, wise and socially very human to a particular category of people, and I think we should support this together and finally put everything we need to do in order and that a certain category of returnees finally dispel and their existential torments in which they live today. And finally, we have article 5, we were already talking about the return of unauthorized investments. We fully understand for a certain period the purpose of granting acquired property to temporary users was to protect property, so the entire abandoned property, but the expression of a certain society's sensitivity to provide accommodation to the vulnerable group of returnees at that time, and that's okay. However, everything else that has been happening has become legally very discriminatory, it is becoming not to say even politically very discreetly because it has allowed people to invest in other people's assets beyond the measures allowed and then it has happened that such large funds have been subject to lawsuits, claims against owners. When the owners return, they're welcomed by lawsuits for millions of dollars with interest that people can't pay, they can't move into their own house. When they move in by coercion, the ban on availability, or the burden on these millions amounts, and then we have the Kunić case, we have various other cases of Milice Miladinović which exploit the media in various ways which, of course, is not good. We're playing with human destiny. A man's been asking for 10 years to return to his home. The state has to deal with it. With these changes, there is a possibility that these 15 cases can be dealt with very correctly, i.e. that the state defiles the user or owner of the object in which the person returns. It is a normal thing, it is not such a large amount and these amounts are already already foreseen in part in the budget of the state office itself, and if they are not returned and foreseen in the budget this year, it is not a problem to see this all together in the budget for the next year. The main thing is that this Article 5 of these amendments allows people to finally take off that mortgage and that this agony of litigation between temporary users and de facto and deura owners of objects to finally end. I would also say here that in Article 5, you have at the end one provision that I think should be deleted. This is the final provision, if the settlement referred to in paragraph 2, so the agreement between the State and the user is to be signed by the owner throughout this matter, if it is not concluded within 1 year of the delivery of the settlement proposal, the Republic of Croatia will be deemed to have fulfilled all obligations towards the owner of the facility. We think this is unnecessary and it burdens the settlement itself, the essence of the settlement. The deadline is very pervasive, what if in a year the state in that thing doesn't do anything, then is that the owner of that facility damaged? So let's wipe that thing out and leave the deadline open and properly complete these 15 obligations that hang over our heads constantly to us and to the international judiciary. And in conclusion, we think it's a good idea to adopt a consolidated text of this law to make it easier to manage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81125	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. First, Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Horvat, you have said to me on two occasions that this is wiser, or much wiser, political wiser law, to quote correctly. What don't I agree with? In fact, there are several arguments that this is not a politically wiser law, or that there will be no political wiser law after it is passed. First of all, because of the fact that the law clearly recognises and the promoter acknowledges that part of the amendments is being applied so that Croatian defenders could not sue, so that the obligations were not carried out so that they could follow the charges, but they can follow because the legal deadline was June 2nd, and the law will be passed on June 13th, and will take effect 8 days as far as I can see from here. Therefore, the deadline between them will be the time limit for the defenders to be able to call on. And the other thing is something that I've just mentioned and I don't think anyone's been particularly argumentative so far, so my opinion is that in some parts of the return of already completed funds from the state budget, so taxpayers are on a lot of today's constitutional legs. Why, because, let's just say that example, I could draw others, which is with other executives who will not and cannot apply the provisions of this law, so those who don't live on PPDS and whose state has not renewed their houses or given materials to rebuild. So think about it a little bit, it's putting into an unequal position of citizens, different categories of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And from that point of view, it doesn't seem to me to be politically wiser law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81127	Thank you. Answer, colleague Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81128	My colleague Kosor, I know you don't like the very quality of political wisdom because at one point you were Prime Minister and you could have arranged this thing in a way like this or perhaps better, but I definitely think it's wiser because it's been 20 years and 20 years we haven't shown any particular interest in this category of returnees, so it's one of the life's torments of people. It's not a lot of cases, it can be counted on the fingers of people who are in such a life agony, and they could have solved it, and that can only be solved by politics. Politics can make a decision to pay something, not to pay, to allocate certain funds in the budget, not to allocate certain funds, and to say about the legal basis of the profession. The waist has already said that there's a legal basis for solving these things, but it's never been or I'm wrong, but I don't think so. It was never until the end of the will, until the end of political will, that this thing should be completed, that several million kunas should be set aside to compensate people for some interest, some kind of penalty, etc. who are not, who burden them, and which they should not have come to. In any case, your observation of an equal relationship in the case of a performance between categories is a matter of thought, but that is what the Proposer needs. Let it be a suggestion to them, so let them say so. I agree that you should put in the same plane equally treat all citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81129	Thank you. Next replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the end of your presentation, you said that you did not like Article 5, which states that if it is not concluded within one year, so that no settlement proposal will be submitted, the Republic of Croatia will be considered to have fulfilled all obligations according to the owner of the facility. And in order for you to be there for a year, you shall extend that term for a year. Until when? By when we'll be more than '95. years of Storm. So we have a problem. You said yourself you needed to get rid of these things once. You said you needed to be expedient. But here's what you've done with your exposure, you've kind of disabling yourself. So as long as we're going to deal more with what, here's what came about as a consequence of the war in terms of restoration, in terms of eradicating the records, the publishing rights on real estate, when this article 5 has been a great solution to what people who moved into empty houses and invested funds and the state of Croatia is taking over those costs and to say, the funds invested. And the deadline for the settlement is one year. So I don't know why we should extend that deadline? That's what I don't even know how long it's supposed to last? Infinity? I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81131	Thank you. Answer, colleague Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81132	So when I, my colleague Grubisic, said that I was afraid that knowing the country's trombone in solving certain things, so the state as an institution with all its prerogatives could happen to exceed that deadline for a year and the state says I no longer have the obligation to give in that settlement as one of the parties I take part in. And then maybe you need to rephrase the way you're giving a warrant to the state to do it within a year. I agree that'll be six months. As far as I'm concerned, let the deadline be even shorter, but I'm afraid that this formulation as it is creates space that the state simply for some reason, that deadline of 12 months goes beyond and says as a party to the settlement, I no longer have any obligations. If I'm reading this correctly, maybe I'm not reading it right. Maybe the promoters should explain this. I'm also pleased with the proposal's interpretation if it's different. In any case, the thing must not go to harm the user of the facility, only in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81133	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81134	Thank you very much. Well, apparently a simple thing, but when someone doesn't know what they're trying to do, they make a big deal out of it. Thus, with its last amendment to the law and the provision that those who have the right to do so would have to bring in additional documents, the government would virtually eliminate half of those who have the right to housing renewal. It's the key to the whole story. Because when you look at some changes in Article 3 you will see what is happening in relation to the changes to the old law fourteen. So, one total failure by the government, because they're making a regulation, and you have a budget, and in that budget, you have to secure all the funds if someone has the right to do something. Yeah, there's no head. This is real. Someone has the right to something or you have to change the law and reduce that right or you have to secure the funds. That's what the budget law tells you, that's what the fiscal responsibility Act tells you. So, at the moment of the budget, if the government wasn't prepared to provide these 8 million she had to pay by the end of the 5 months, then at the moment of the adoption of the budget, whether through the Ministry of Regional Development, whether through the Office of this House, this should be presented. That's what the law says. We can talk one way or another. It's the same story to ensure what happens for pensions, some other things, then budget rebalances provide funds. But you can't tell the pensioners in 12 months we don't have any money for your pensions. We can talk about some other givings. This is simply the right that someone has received under a certain law. And we knew that this law had a period of practically 5 months, and it had to be implemented this year. And the government instead of doing what needs to be done does the worst thing it can do. It is doing the worst possible thing that it can do, which is to adopt a regulation, a regulation which unfortunately treats the citizens of the Republic of Croatia differently in areas of special state concern. That should be made clear. Because look, if a group of citizens in the field of special state care is satisfied with these changes to the law, and a large group of citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the area of special state care is extremely unhappy because they believe that it has been abolished, then the law is not good. However, in such dreary areas he is very dangerous because it is a matter of new tension. And we're here pretending like Tosha, we don't know anything, we don't understand anything, we talk like this, we talk like that. Things just have to be called a real name. Because some procedures don't take place for a year, two. Some procedures have been conducted for 10 years. Does anyone have a right to invest money on their return? Of course there is. He invested his money, he didn't pay someone else's money. He does, so he needs it back. And also, whether someone has on such or such conditions rebuilding the house and it is legally prescribed. No, we have our own philosophy and then what happens happens happens. Money's not in the budget, it's chemistry. And look, we now have a 2013 budget. The budget rebalancing was at the end of the year and suddenly sees wonderfully miraculous expenditures are less billions and 600 million kuna than were planned. And why is that? Because it's been seen that incomes are going to be so much smaller that the deficit wouldn't be 18 billion kunas, so let's figure it out, and then in 2014, we're going to get some stuff. There's this, among other things. So that's the facts, that's the truth. However, what I have reported for debate with this is that the government is late with the key, which is the Regional Development Act. So, the Republic of Croatia has been a member of the EU for a year now. There's been a lot of controversy here, and there's been a fight over statistical regions. There have been many arguments why this is not good, that some environments will be abolished, but let's now after a year draw the line, we instead of ensuring that these areas of special state care are able to withdraw funds and withdraw funds for certain projects that we are discussing? We're discussing some law that needs to solve some kind of trauma from the past. And of course someone from the government will say no, we've pulled so much and so much, it's a percentage so much and so much, but the fact is that we in the Republic of Croatia's budget haven't felt the betrayal of European funds. We're only talking in the budget about spending it on us. However, European funds should be a reduction in expenditure in the state budget. Because all this funding from the state budget can be financed from European funds, no plans should be planned tomorrow in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia. Well, if we were to discuss PPDS in that way, probably not even a colleague of Cain's with his escapades would talk as much as the story would but rather watch things more realistically. It's also not good for those who haven't visited those areas of special state concern, who haven't seen how these people live and unfortunately that many of these environments are so it might be ugly to say, but unfortunately for these people, it's almost the twilight zone that they can talk here whatever they want. But I also think it's high time to talk, and I'm going to say it, I said it, and while I was Minister and I warned all international financial institutions that Croatia is in a specific problem for us each year, which, for the indirect consequences of the war, for 14, 15 years, we've been singled out between 8 and 10 billion kunas. And for the indirect consequences of the war, we're going to stand out for a few more decades. And that is why Croatia is specific to all EU members. Now, if Croatian taxpayers' money is set aside to rebuild some housing units, if these units are not used, if they fail, then someone has to bear responsibility for it. Because I repeat, it's not good when someone just comes for retirement, when they come for unemployment benefits, and the renovated house or the renovated apartment yawns, and then, if necessary, they come to the polls and circle. Well, after all, we'll have that opportunity to see the 15th in Vukovar. It's something that just isn't good. If anyone wants to live in this country and his house is restored and let him live there. But in this way, I keep mentioning that building in the Court. Why? Because she's fascinating. That Court is really totally in the appendix. And when you go down that road to the center of the Court, you just hit on it and you see how beautifully arranged it is and how beautifully decorated it is, and then you see the blinds down. And as many times as I've been there, I've never seen a single raised blind. And then people in the local community tell you, who worry about it, that these apartments can no longer be practically entered because because of their non-use, because of their lack of entry, they're parked and you can't practically open the door anymore. And rebuilding that building didn't cost much. The rebuilding of that building cost millions. And how many millions of these are in the Republic of Croatia? No one denies anyone's right to property, but if the state helped you rebuild that property, then you have some obligation to use it or to give a statement that you have no intention of returning, but don't even ask for a renewal if you have no intention of returning. And to finish, so unfortunately because of the lack of government, because of the lack of insight into the facts of what it is, a law that is not respected and then a regulation is made to save it all together, and then in the end we have something that will definitely raise tensions in areas of special state concern no matter how much we in this House try to hide it. Because if the community of exiles of the explicity says that this law is harmful, that it's not good, and on the other hand, another group of exiles say it's good, then clearly says it's smart enough, and the stupid one should think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81135	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Shuker already twice, which in the replica, which in your discussion mentions that building which is on that circular course in the Castle where you hit if you come from the direction of Croatia Kostanica and Zagreb, is it possible to say that I have seen the same thing, and in fact it is the correct name that some use ironically or paradoxically say weekend returnees, yes. This is when they come to the elections or maybe once a month to the top of their head, etc., and the apartments for which the Croatian state and Croatian taxpayers gave their money to the yap or standing empty or half empty, almost empty. And there's more of them, it's not just in the Court. You have such a thing all over our beautiful, to say the end of a special state's care.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81137	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81138	Look, fellow Grubisic, when someone came up with the idea of solving the polling lists, then they ran into inhabited houses and watched whether or not some people live there. No one's supposed to run into each other here, so it's enough just to write down and figure out the fact and nothing else. And then we'll solve the problems that are defined by law. It's a long time, because he shows up, formally logs in but doesn't live here. And he's making all the rights come true. Therefore, I repeat, the Croatian state has allowed everyone to rebuild their ruined house regardless of nationality or any ethnicity. Everyone who had conditions is located in the PPDS area, the Croatian state has made it possible to rebuild, but if it was abuse, that many have taken advantage of it fatly, are that many do not use these housing units, and use the social rights offered by the Croatian state and use their voting rights when it suits them, that is true, I repeat this story of the weekend we will have the opportunity to see in Sunday's elections in Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81139	Next replica Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81140	Thank you. I think fellow Shuker, that the Republic of Croatia has otherwise shown that a very caring mother is a mother to all her citizens and those who fought and died for her, and those who fought and died against her. I don't think anyone can claim that the Republic of Croatia is really anyone's stepmother. I do not know at all an example that one state, without speaking to a poor state, over-indebted, undeveloped, made such an effort as the Republic of Croatia from its own sources that those who directly participated in its destruction, who directly fought against it and who experienced it as hostile, did everything that could be done to those citizens to rebuild the house, and those houses that they had destroyed, and those houses where they lived and that all citizens felt as good as the Republic of Croatia has done over the past years. And I think that this is, indeed, the time has come for us as a Croatian society to define our priorities, to stop how waves, like on the sea when waves come, so different policies are targetedly buying different election groups and actually more defining what are the social priorities of Croatian society in the years to come. Is this how governments are changed, buying certain polling groups, or is this more finally building a Croatian society, creating new jobs and creating some general preconditions for people in the Republic of Croatia to live.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81141	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81142	Nice. Well, colleague Djurovic, I'm glad you think this way, so I did mention the Regional Development Act. This law and the use of European Union funds would finally lead to someone constantly articulating and trading with this kind of threat and their rights. Why? Because you can use European Union funds by the criteria, and these criteria do not know certain things that unfortunately have happened in Croatia for a long time, possibly inherited from the last country. And when we pass such a law, when everyone is allowed to compete evenly to do something, whether units of local self-government infrastructure, whether some entrepreneur is some kind of entrepreneurial drive, and when he realizes that the ability to get these funds has no national designations, but quality, and brains and ideas, then we will stop dealing with such nonsense by convincing each other on the one hand that this law is great, and on the other hand we get messages from the field, it's a disaster. So what I'm saying about this law isn't me, because I don't live in that area, I go from time to time to Sisak-Moslavina County because it's closest to me to Banovina and I see what's going on, and I listen to these people. On the other hand, you get as other fellow MPs get from various communities, so the returnee community sends certain remarks to this law. And it is not clear to me that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not simply see that perhaps unconsciously, I will not say that they are consciously doing so, but to raise three votes in the Assembly for a certain amount of tension. Such provisions of this law, unfortunately, will lead to some feeling cut off and say that someone has regained some rights. And that's a fact, and unfortunately we can't get away from that fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81143	Thank you. We continue the debate, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I think this law is good, that it is just, that it does no harm to anyone but benefit. And what some think is that when someone and the state want to benefit themselves, that it's automatically to each other's advantage, even though it pays itself, then I think it's their problem and it's not the right way of thinking. After all, it wasn't that way of thinking. Since the year 2000, we have started to renovate strongly, and this has been happening since then, all the time until today. And no one complained about it then because it was our obligation. And I agree with all those who have all pointed out that there is no state that has in this way helped their own citizens whose houses have been torn down. And that's a huge asset, that job's long gone, but it's not done. What can we actually tell the citizens, what is changing with this bill? What we're trying to say is that the defendant, members of the deceased who unfortunately suffered, their families, will buy them the amount they bought, buy them apartments in the area of special state care, or buy them state-run, social, that the state will pay them off. The objection is even justified, why has it not been done so far? But now that it's done and it's done, and I'm up for it, here's the one deadline left for it, to be done as soon as possible, not to look at the last day of the deadline but first, if possible to pay them off as soon as possible. And what's the problem? The Law on Special State Care was adopted in 2008. It's been done since then. And when no one talked about it, now we want to do it with this bill, and now there are big problems about it, there's an objection to why it hasn't been before. Now, with these other changes, where the people who were left, whose houses were torn down, which were based on the law, and some of them entered on their own, so without the approval of the state, by the basis of the Law on the availability of so-called. Special property, they entered those houses and, of course, often those houses were not similar to housing, people had to invest in these houses. They had litigation later when their houses were restored to return to them. These lawsuits take a long time, we haven't discussed it at all, and now that the state wants to end the dispute between the owners and between the users and they will pay for it themselves, now it's a big question, it's a big dispute. And what do we want? That these people continue to retreat in courts with suspense and cost-gathering? And in the end, I agree with that, these people, and we are not going to go into litigation, which costs were justified, which were unwarranted under the Mandatory Relations Act, to admit only the necessary costs. What was necessary, as the courts determined, is their domain and their jurisdiction. But I repeat, this bill of law, that, this litigation and these executions, are coming to an end. The state will also pay the users. But here it's obvious to some others now disputed. Or they want to stir up some kind of passion amongst the hard-lived team and when we see what they're saying to each other publicly and thirdly, I don't know which one they're saying exactly, that their biggest problem is just finding a job. And about that, what many have pointed out is that we need such a law, an improvement of this law, where investments and the launch of economic life in these areas where opportunities and potentials are abundant. And why is that the problem? This is painful, for both the prosecutor and the defendant, and for the owner and the user. And on the other hand, neither of us was the one whose real estate fell under the Management Act, or the availability of special property. What about those owners? Who couldn't use their property for years. Could they have also sued the state for not using that property? And it's not true here what some people are saying because by law enemies who are also found guilty were not possible and were not allowed to rebuild the house. Of course, families were not to blame, and that was also to be taken into account, and some who demanded it just because they were aggressors, they were rejected because they had no right to do so. We have gentlemen here, so don't play with those tensions, nobody needs that and people don't say that. Here we have in our Parliament, and we have attended the opening ceremony, or the setting up of the gentle Cardinal Khuharić in his sight, the sights of his sentences are few of whom remember, "If not the enemy brought down my house, I will not tear down his house." But we are those years, I guess it wasn't enough for us to have the enemy tear down our houses, our property, the law, the amendments and the additions to the Law on Mandatory Relations, which was abolished by the law that states are responsible for terrorist acts. In 2002, we brought the so-called four small laws on compensation for damages where the state is also responsible for such damages. Of course, it was not entirely, but on the principle of solidarity because it would be a great cost for Croatia. Therefore, we can also talk about the past, why it did not happen, all of it, but these are no reason not to support this bill which takes care of Croatian defenders to pay off as soon as possible and end these painful and long-term litigation between owners and users because none of them are guilty of being set on fire in such a situation. So in such a single human accident and tragedy, we don't have to catch political points here, somehow create, somehow there's one tension, some growth and tension amongst these people. Here, that doesn't match those who are prosecutors, the users who are looking for it because this will stop all these lawsuits and the state will damage them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81145	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Dujomir Marasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81146	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Antičević, the reconstruction in Croatia as such, had a lot of faults and big mistakes because she went to rebuild only the house, not taking care of any context at all, especially the future of the jobs revitalisation of the space that was threatened. This also restored Croatian houses where no one lives, which were brought down by Serbs and restored to Serbian houses where no one lives. Whoever goes towards Dalmatia doesn't need to explain anything better. A huge number of houses, new houses where no one lives. It's a waste of money, in a way it's not thrown away, but it's badly spent money. The Croatian state was supposed to invest money in what... those spaces... with one Serbian family... with three children, buy him 1,000 sheep in Lika and give him and such 100, 200, 5 thousand families. There are no sheep or goats or Croatian people or Serbian people in person, everything is deserted. And this is, I'm sorry about this money because it's a continuation of that wrong policy. It will satisfy some justice against those 100 people or 200, which I know, which will restore the house, in which no one will live. It would be better if this money were invested and invested now, you say in jobs. Give those Serbs who are there, who have children, families, to develop, to grow stronger and to have someone there and something. And not only that, houses were made, I'm talking to a Serbian poor woman, here I'm telling you publicly, and now a lot of Serbian poor people on the spot. You're gonna rebuild that house now, and there's no power, no plumbing, no living conditions, nothing. The Serbian poor around they get a new house in a village where no one stands, and they have no living conditions. That's the fact, that's the truth. There are no Serbs, no Croats, no politicizing. I agree that this furniture buys... The SDSS is now something, but we are talking about Croatia's general future.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81147	Thank you. Answer from my colleague Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81148	Well, it's hard for my colleague Duje to disagree with you right now, but we can't say that's not the solution, you didn't say that money was really thrown, but it's not the solution, that the solution is this other creation of economic activity. But you'll still have to say that it's about your house then you'd also be asking for it to be restored. It is a prerequisite, however, that the houses are restored but they are not the end of the story because they will stare empty not only because of the abuses they have been, nobody can say that, but also those who live there if they do not see their perspective then they too will go even those who did not abuse this right to rebuild. And as for what you specifically say about where you talked to these people, the poor girl who never went anywhere, and I know them a lot from around Benkovec and Obrovec and they warn about that problem. We don't have water, and by the river Zrmanja live, 10 meters from the river Zrmanja and that's the problem we have to solve. And on the other hand, the truth is that and it should also be seen, they've not been restored yet, they've never left but it's already collapsed, it's collapsed while on the other hand it's true and there are big houses, there are big houses that nobody lives in, it's a fact, but it's a problem of another nature and not of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81149	Thank you. Next replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81150	Thank you very much. My colleague Anticevic, so you didn't have to alludate to the collection of political points at all, or as you say, points, first of all, that my colleague Djurovic said that I was not his lawyer at all, but I agree entirely with his line spoken earlier, so by participating in aggression is an enmity to the Republic of Croatia which we know in the years of '91 to '95. All those who participated in the aggression are appalled by the Abolition Act and are completely equal to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all others, all of them are restored houses. Croatia was a mother just as a colleague mother said to everyone regardless of nationality, religious and any other difference in the Republic of Croatia. What you're saying is that the perpetrators of war crimes that are different from those who are abolized, who participated in the aggression that they didn't get that right. But their relatives said they were right because relatives, children didn't commit war crimes. According to the fact that it is a Croatian state and what it is to collect political points when you say this, when almost everyone was entitled to rebuild their houses and Croats and Serbs and Muslims, Bosniaks as you will and indeed Croatia invested between 8 and 10 billion kunas of Croatian taxpayers during the 20 years since the war to rebuild all houses. It is the Croatian people and taxpayers carried out on their backs exclusively from their salaries and from their incomes and incomes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81151	Answer from my colleague Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81152	The law you're talking about was passed in the 1990s, according to who you're talking to. That's one thing. The other thing is, what you're saying is that all of these were borne by Croatian taxpayers. They also bear the costs of rebuilding houses not only from aggression, which are huge costs, but further by terrorist acts. Was that still what we needed? These are additional costs that Croatia passed a law where it restored those houses as well. Therefore, they can agree with all those, and unfortunately no one responded to who destroyed such a single house, and then they would be less burdened by taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81153	Thank you. Next up for debate Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I will continue to present Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic, who said there was also a failure to rebuild the houses, so I received one such email in which a citizen from a special state care area who wrote "that the APN was buying houses from Serbs" precisely quotes "who do not want to return to the Republic of Croatia, and for that purchase the houses were the employees of APN who had the power to make indirect deals with the owners of the houses" so the refugee Serbs "they were the ones who made payments as agreed. In fact, fraud was made in a way that the house was arranged for sale for 25 thousand euros, and the papers were filled in to 40,000 euros and if the state paid off the owner of the house, it would pay the APN agent cash. The same was happening with the assigned materials for the renovation of houses, and there were cases that construction carpenters, crumbs, etc. were sold on the ground. That's what you said in part. How much money did this end in private pockets and we have been having a great debate here all morning for those 8 million kunas for which the Croatian state will be sued regardless of the adoption of this law which is beyond the legal deadline because the deadline for resolving these 9 million kunas was 2 June this year. And citizens, since the law will enter into force on 21 June with its publication in the NN, and June 2nd and 21st have 19 days apart have the right to sue, although this law has been promised to resolve this in two years. Our amendment is to get rid of it within a year because if there are 35 machines for artificial lungs so called, so to speak, so that it is understandable to citizens who listen to this debate and these 35 apparatus of the Ministry of Health, not health and health care is a number that is higher by three times than whether the number of apparatus in Germany that has 90 million inhabitants, there are 12 appliances all over it. Croatia will be 35. So here's the part where we don't have to settle these eight million with cars. We also have a statement from HUBOL saying there's no need for 35 machines. Here's the need for 10 machines and for the next 25 let's not order these 8 million kunas that are defenders, who have their own houses, who paid their houses in areas of special state care to make it worth it. What I was about to say and this is going through the whole debate right here is a colleague Shucker saying that a car almost hit a building where no one is in the Court of the Union. And 100 meters from that building, there's an ex-factory plant called the S.H.I.E.L.D., a forest industrial company that hasn't worked since '92. The year was the bearer of economic activity in that forest to say to an economic area rich in chestnut, oak and all others. Furthermore, when the people who, behold, Mile Horvat knows, have returned to those built objects that mostly had no infrastructure, water, electricity, and everything else in the areas that are spoken of, they are mostly cattleland, which were offered or returned at least to obtain 3, 4, 5 cows, sheep, goats, how did Duje say a thousand sheep to live on? No one. And what he says is he stays there and only the poor live. And it really is, without a national, or whatever you want with any national sign, any Croats, Serbs and anyone else. And all in all that area is so-called. soft belly towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are smuggling routes, there is no one there, there is no living soul. It's not a twilight zone, it's a no-su zone, a dark zone. And well Duje notices that if he went even closer to the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then on the road along the western border, he would only see what the right zone of darkness or the twilight zone is. That is why we urgently need the Regional Development Act. And when we talked about this law, then we also got a table, a table on the index of the development of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. In doing so, I must say that the index of the 50 % development of the Republic of Croatia, 50% not of the European Union, has 47 municipalities of 550 total units of local administration. Of these 47 municipalities and cities 24 are in Slavonia. And now look here are Bosniaks, S.H.I.E.L.D., Babina Greda, etc. From those parts of the PPDS that are these rural characters and others who moved to S.H.I.E.L.D. in Babin Gred to survive people, to come to the rich so-called "rich." The Slavonian region is now Stitar and Babina Greda becoming an area of special state concern. And not only do they say so, so Voćin, Gunja, this flooded one of ours, Drenovci, Gornji Bogicevci, Levanska Varoš, Sopje, Gradina, Jagodnjak, Babina Greda and Štitar I said, Mikleush, Drenje said, Trnava, Podgorac, Markusica, Nova Bukovica, Čajavica, Staro Petrovo Selo, Gundinci, Špisić Bukovica, Šodolovci and that I don't have any more, Podravska Moslavina, they belong to those areas that, according to that index of the development of the Republic of Croatia, would need urgent and rapid help. And what we get, they have to pay for the same participation in the projects 35% and the city of Zagreb. And, of course, we will, and when we pass this Regional Development Act, fall even lower, there will be even more municipalities in this first group that will be below 50%. And that we should already end up in terms of saying this direction of money in building and rebuilding houses, instead of directing them to the economy and already setting up some strategic line of the state of Croatia for what we need and how we need to improve life in all areas not only in areas of special state care, to rebuild this ŠIP in the Court, that people have what to live on, what to do, what to do and not just build a house so that you, you can't pay the child bus for school from home, you can't eat the house, you can't have anything from home. Yes, it is true that it is human need to have a home, a dry need. But it's been 20 years since the war, and we deal with it all the time and here, and this law is about to say again, I'm not going to tell the plots because the regulation, the silly and the sloppy regulation of May 13th made it the way it did and made a mess between those people who actually as a poor woman have no reason to argue and fight there, but live like they do, in those parts here starting with that unfortunate and mentioned to tell the Court and all the rest of the Republic of Croatia that are now in areas of special state concern. This new development table speaks of the fact that up to 75%, therefore, in the second group of all other municipalities in Slavonia and Baranja. Everything. And the only municipality that is above 75% of the average of the Republic of Croatia and from Slavonia and Baranja is the only Cepin. One that is above 75% of the average of the Republic of Croatia. There are none of the Istrian municipalities below 80%. That's all I can say. Motovun, Lupoglava, Grapes have 85% What's that saying? We have worked hard here and explained the situation that will happen with the regional division of the NUTS region, but we can't prove anything until this incompetent and government that can't be proven and constructive debate in the Assembly that this will lead to you having all of Slavonia and Baranja as a PPDS which she actually deserves long ago, and the relationship with Slavonia and Baranja is best talked about that Babin Greda, once rich Babin Greda and Šitar, and a series of municipalities in which people have moved from like, from Banovina, Banovina, Kordun and Dalmatia, Herzegovina, has now become the most underdeveloped, is now part of an undeveloped group of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. It's sad and it's a shame. So listen sometimes and what the opposition says. We are fierce, but let us adopt our opinions as well. As far as this law is concerned, colleague Bubalo said what he said and we won't accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81155	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81156	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, I was encouraged by your emotional statement which was really very justified as regards the arguments you presented on the subject of today's undeveloped Slavonia and I agree with you that you need to find ways to actually enable people to develop normally, and that country should give its pain without further ado. You also mentioned this example of irrational procurement of medical equipment. I think this is just one in a series of examples that shows actually how irrationally she has the state money, with the state budget. You mentioned the purchase of 35 medical devices for which there are not even enough teamed personnel who can work with them at all, let alone enough patients for such appliances. So absolutely something that is unacceptable and that needs to be avoided, or such cases should not be repeated at all. It is certain that today there would be money provided for this bill and that we would not discuss it at all today. However, there is a question of really fundamental infrastructure when it comes to restoration. We in the Republic of Croatia today except for these parts, here is a colleague Marasovic who is very picturesque in fact expressed himself on these problems where people really don't have electricity or water or sewers. We also have developed ends. I will tell you here Dubrovnik belongs safely among the most developed cities in the Republic of Croatia. You have parts of Dubrovnik that today have no water or sewers. So that's part of Dubrovnik. These are coastal villages, but these coastal villages are on the water. We have large sources of water, Ombla is one of the best, best quality rivers that provide Dubrovnik, of course and the surrounding area. However, you have coastal villages that are part of Dubrovnik, an administrative part of Dubrovnik that have neither unfortunately water nor sewerage. So it should be passed as soon as possible by the Regional Development Act absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81157	Answer, Comrade Grubisic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81158	Thank you very much. So Dubrovnik has a 127% development index compared to the overall development of the Republic of Croatia, so 127%. But what you mentioned were local problems in the County of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, you say in the city of Dubrovnik, so I ask what your mayor is doing, and what your mayor is doing, and what the County of Dubrovnik-Neretva or the city does, if you really want the city, means that the dunaves and the dubious have both water and sewerage and everything. I don't know... I don't know, I was there but I didn't ask if they had these developed infrastructure facilities. But all in all, we agree that there are areas within the county and in the town of Slavonski Brod you have neighborhoods, neighborhoods, whatever you want, that don't have a drain. So this question would be appropriate for the mayors, not for us to discuss it with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81159	Thank you. Jadranka Kosor, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81160	Thank you very much. A colleague Grubisic, in one part of his exhibition, like many of us, asked for this 8 million kuna, you were looking for those 8 million kunas that are being postponed until 1 June 2017. I believe that we have helped the government with our proposals and that these proposals will be adopted. Namely, we should cut the deadline and we have suggested that it be 1 June 2016, so to cut the deadline. However, in this search for money that could be found to be paid by Croatian defenders and members of their families according to the law, so not by my own will but by the law, I remembered here and that these days we are in charge of the 525 million ministry seems to me social policy, so that we can pay social benefits in one place. So that's another one of the new assignments. 525 million, big money. And as for the purchase of these expensive appliances, I think it's good that we get machines that can save people's lives, but of course the health care system should also be organised so that every apparatus is used and that every apparatus that doctors and other staff have to be with should benefit citizens, both sick and healthy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81161	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81162	Thank you very much. Comrade Kosor, I wouldn't want to paralyze with you about our medical stuff, but you need to know that 35 apparatus so-called. steel lungs as if every day someone gets tetanus and stays in the so-called The respiratory armor and that he needs that machine. So if Germany is only 12, what does it say? If half of Europe has 35 appliances as much as Croatia itself, it only says that this procurement is unnecessary or that it is something else that I would not want to say would not go to an information conversation with a state attorney. So that's it. As for the loan raise, here someone mentioned that 10 days ago a billion and a half euros were raised, or as counterpart Bubalo said 10 billion kuna, and that is more than 10 billion kuna per interest, a huge success is 3.8% of the interest, although they often receive 2%, Slovenians 2 and a half percent, etc. But here we have achieved great success with 3.8% of the interest that very yesterday made us happy by the minister, the new Minister of Finance Lalovac. So he's got money. And what the European Union warns, and you are well aware of the negotiations that there are places on the side of expenditures that can be cut, can be saved, and then these 8 million kunas are really almost I would say without substance about them. Now a proposal for two or three years, 2014. 2016, two years, and 2014 2017 is three years. Well, I think that, after all, if our amendments were adopted, we might be able to help the defenders in these areas of special state care, given that they would not go to trial or drop the lawsuits in connection with further proceedings with the court, and against the state of Croatia for which they fought for what was paradoxical.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81163	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81164	Thank you. In the first part of your discussion, you read this letter on malversions in the reconstruction and work of APN. It's actually just one little stone in the mosaic answers the question of how that Croatia has 260 multibillionaires, one small rock more than, the estimates are more than Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina combined far more which is completely... Well, there's, there's that little pebble that answers that question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what you've also said about the chapter of renewal and over and over again, I think that it should be closed down and that it should actually be turned towards regional development and that there's actually a real, real answer. And on the issue of regional development, there is no longer a question of either sides, nor war, but there is a question that some parts of the Republic of Croatia are significantly lagging behind more of course parts affected by war and especially Slavonia, and that there is a need to systematically approach the problem of going in some way towards equating the development of Croatian regions and helping those parts of Croatia that are lagging behind because the differences today are so great that in fact some people in parts of Croatia feel like they do not live in Croatia. And to these people, indeed, Croatia, these are people who feel bitter, who feel bad and who actually want to feel that they are unjustly denied. And it's regional development, the issue of forming regional and local self-government, which is actually issues that should be opened, and closing the chapter of reconstruction finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81165	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81166	That fellow Djurovic and you and I agree that 20 years since the war, so from Storm to say the one that was, let's say some borderline where the Croatian military is noble and the police, let me not forget the police that I belonged to special ended this war chapter and 20 years from the war. So if it's not in 20 years and these 8 to 10, you don't even know the final data on the funds invested in the renovation. Mr. Shuker said between 8 and 10 billion kunas. That's what he said. I, as Minister of Finance, must also trust him, because he shared that money, so it would really be time for us to go once again to rebuild Croatia in a different sense, hence economic and economic progress. Because if we continue this way, Croatia will demographically fall completely. And as for solidarity itself in terms of underdevelopment, well, you may be a lot younger than me, and those who are older like here, my colleague Duja remember that in Yugoslavia there were four republics developed and four undeveloped, or provinces. So, Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro were underdeveloped, and everyone else in Vojvodina, Croatia, Slovenia and Serbia were developed and was a solidarity fund. Is that how it was for someone to remember? And projects were funded from that fund, not houses. Both in Kosovo and Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, I don't want to repeat that history and mention the former state as some kind of a state I don't know, but I guess we have the brains in this Croatian state and we have statistics that show that all municipalities except Chepin in the Republic of Croatia, pardon in Slavonia below 75% of the average of the Republic of Croatia, and of that 24 below 50%. What we burned to in Slavonia shows the best statistics. Take it if you need it, I'll print it for you and look at it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81167	Thank you. Next replica and last. Mile Horvat, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81168	I thank my colleague Grubisic. You've opened several interesting topics in your debate. First, when you were talking about APN and some weird malversions in APN, I said the other day when we were talking about public procurement that it wasn't the essence of public procurement in the cheapest offer, and that was very much reflected in the quality of the renovation. It would be interesting to see what quality buildings are restored by the principle of the cheapest offer. The other thing is, when you were talking about the Court of the Union, you said people don't have a perspective. It's just confirmation of what we're doing today. So how can it be possible to punish someone who's got a house and hasn't come back within three months because there's no existence, there's not even two sheep to live, not to live quality, and we're punishing him by making him return the funds. Well, this very law, this amendment to the law, is about to bring this injustice to an end, and you will be against it. You said you didn't accept this concept. So you don't accept what you said yourself. And third thing, you're talking about an underdevelopment index. So Forbes magazine published a survey that says that out of 490 municipalities of 220 are below the threshold of self-sustainability. And among the first 25 units, undeveloped return environments. The only one in our space isn't in that category is probably the Erdut municipality that has a slightly stronger standard, and otherwise all of this other stuff you said was absolutely right. The municipalities of Eastern Slavonia, not to say Western Slavonia, are below the threshold of sustainability, below the threshold of some extensive minimum that is expected to be provided to these people.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81169	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81170	Thank you very much. My colleague Horvat and you see, we've been looking for an acceleration of the execution of this law. And that's how we put in the amendment. We don't agree to settle this in three years, but rather much earlier. And that's why we're not up for this, so about that, you weren't when Mr. Bubalo had it? Is it? Then you know why Mr. Bubalo told you in his presentation. So there's no need to tell you again. And that the dramatic data on the index of development of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and that the urgent, urgent need is new, not new, but at all the Regional Development Act that will be implemented and will be based on these data in which here I must specify that the Community of Kistanje with the smallest index of development of the Republic of Croatia is far below, so 19.62%. The first municipality to say the worst by the index of development in the Republic of Croatia and right after it is Donji Kukuruzari in the Municipality of Croatia Kostanica and then Voćin in Virovitski-Podravska County. So, I think we quite agree that we just want to speed this up and that already once this ribbon is finished to say from the renewal, from the requirements, from only 20 years after the war we want the economic upturn of Croatia, not to invest, clearly that people need their home and that we have done it quite well, and that we want economic development. I was talking about the Court that there's a S.H.I.E.L.D. standing there for 20 years, no one invested anything in it. The only economic facility that exists in the Municipality of Dvor is up on Hrtić that farm of pigs and chickens, it is the only economic facility that works other than public services and local services, the Municipality of Dvor and some states. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81171	Thank you. Our final address will be Mirela Stanić-Popović, head of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81172	Thank you very much. I thank you all most warmly for the share you have taken in this debate. I think it is unquestionable that the problem of refunding, the deadline for the refunding of funds to Croatian defenders, began to run long ago on 2 June 2011, and it is unquestionable that at this point we are trying to solve this problem. Also, I repeat once again the State Office has since several different interpretations of the amounts needed The State Office has in the rebalancing for 2014 provided 4 million kuna for these purposes, and according to our estimates, according to the already submitted refunding requirements, we will need another 8. Which would be $12 million in total. But what the government regulation actually prescribed is that Croatian defenders who bought houses and apartments to unscathed loans under the Defence Ministry programme also have the right to refund and is a deadline for submitting their applications for a year, which would mean until May 2015. What response these families will have, and what amount will be needed for the realisation of their rights will be needed at this point we cannot safely argue. So, $12 million is what's been determined so far and we certainly know we're going to need it. I repeat, all requests are already under processing, but you all know the sequence of budget voting, regulation and actually work on solutions themselves. We have set ourselves up in a regulation on ring payback precisely for the reason that we would not cause any imbalance to the large group of nearly 200 families now, that some would be resolved immediately and that all the funds would be paid immediately. For this reason, it is our intention to give out all the solutions and start in the payment of commitments made, and, of course, according to budgetary opportunities, it will end as soon as possible. As regards the question of consulting the DORH, of course not only has he been consulted but the DORH has been actively involved in the preparation of all points of this law all the time. And according to the very reason for their proposal, the amendments to the law have actually led to certain problems relating to judicial proceedings, and for which an adequate solution has not been found so far. The observations concerning housing procedures can only say that the procedure is fully transparent and in accordance with the prescribed deadlines. The number of people on the list of priorities this year is expected to be lower. On the list of priorities this year, for the first time, we do not have people who are still in organised accommodation facilities, former housing rights holders and those families who are still staying in state property without a valid legal person. For all of these three categories, the rights will actually be determined by official duty in a way that will determine which of them really has the right to housing and who doesn't. The plans of housing, the lists of championships, available housing units have also been published both on our website and in the local competent offices of the State Administration which are actually parties and address themselves in the exercise of their rights. One more thing I'd like to point out, I don't think it's a wrong interpretation of the championship list, is an administrative act. Administrative acts will be issued, or solutions, for those families for which housing units are provided, i.e. enough resources in the budget to issue a solution to the award of construction material for self-building or reconstruction. The dwellings we have found not to be used in accordance with the law are in the proper procedures before the competent state attorney's offices and in fact, their number is given every day, as we get new knowledge, that number is increased every day and so that these housing units are really given to those who need it most. As a point of view, in fact, that all legal obligations must be carried out, that the budget must provide funds for this I would only say that what the state office as the newly established body of the state administration has found is actually a large number, a much larger number of previously established and not the rights realised. This is about almost 4000 housing consents according to different models that have been published since 2009. Years, even before today. For this very reason, there was actually an amendment to the Law on areas of special state care last year so that on the one hand the legal certainty of our citizens would rise to a higher level, but also so that the housing programme would be designed exclusively in line with available budgetary opportunities. It may not be directly related to today's topic, but I need to point out that the state office, when it comes to funds, and we all really need it to meet all the legal obligations in time. In fact, he inherited large amounts of court proceedings that various private and legal entities were proud of against our predecessors. These subjects, some of these disputes at this point arrive at the collection, which immediately has an impact directly on our budget and of course on our housing plan. As far as the argument is concerned, I would like to stress, in fact, that in the very explanation of these amendments to the law, we have been extremely open and clear, and I am sorry that some have interpreted it in a negative way. The defenders could have filed charges all these years. No, they're not. I'm sure they won't. The lawsuits would actually only time-long their procedure, and these people would actually get what these amendments of the law and confirm. I call once again on those families of Croatian defenders who have not filed a request for refunding to do so even before this end of a year, so we will know much earlier what resources we actually need for their refunding and implementation of their obligations to them. So, all criticisms relating to the late performance of these obligations alone, let them go to the burden of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care. However, I would like to stress once again that after the budget rebalancing, we have prepared a regulation, the government has adopted the regulation and the final step is in fact this amendment to the law. The number of users covered by these amendments to the law is actually small, however, the fact that they have not been solved so far is actually talking about the gravity of their life situation. Honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament I call you once again and ask you to support these amendments to the law so that you can give the State Office for Reconstruction and Residential Care the right to carry out the obligations that have long been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81173	Thank you, too, for the representatives of the state office. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. I would like to thank the Deputy Minister, the head of staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81174	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fields of Special State Care, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 670. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments have been filed, we've got a plate, we've got more, so we'll get it on the table. I would like a representative of the motionary, representative of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, respected Mirela Stanic-Popovic. Amendment number one. The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club. ... I'm listening. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81175	According to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Government of the amendment, only a representative of the Government can answer the amendments. So either the minister, or the deputy minister. We are in the debate yesterday, we have not protested, we have allowed Mrs Popovic to speak, but we simply cannot allow the Rules of Procedure to be broken like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81176	Thank you very much. Warning accepted. I'd like a representative of the motionary, the respected Deputy Minister Jacksa Pugliz. Amendment number one. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81177	Amendment number one is still not accepted. Amendments are not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81178	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant of the amendment...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81179	But I was just going to read the explanation. The deadline for repayment of funds by 2015 is not accepted as it would be too short since the budget does not provide for the need for full payment. The dynamics and payment deadlines are provided for taking into account the available financial resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81180	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives, Honored Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The purpose of the amendment is that the obligation that existed in the current law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's obligation to pay compensation to persons in areas of special state care for housing, which has not been met in the past 3 years and where the deadline for meeting that obligation expired on 12 June of this year with a scandalous explanation of the government to extend that period to the next 3 years so that the Government does not receive a large part of the lawsuits of those who would have the right to press charges on the basis of the existing law for failing to pay these funds. The proposal for our amendment was once you move forward that deadline is inadmissible to extend to the next 3 years and given the safe changes to the budget by the end of this year, provide the funds for the deadline to be concluded with June 2015. Therefore, it is not true that no funds can be made, and this is 7 million 946 thousand and 802 kuna, it is not true that these funds cannot be foreseen in the budget for the following year, thus fulfilling the commitment of 3 years of age in this law, that these funds be paid to those who have the right to do so. Please vote on the amendment and please at least give us a legitimate explanation of the rejection of the amendment, what the deputy said is not a legal explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81182	Thank you very much. I ask you to make a statement about the amendment of the HDZ Representatives' Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 2 of the HDSSB Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81183	The HDSSB representative club has proposed an amendment to amend Article 10b, paragraph 2 and that paragraph 2 reads as follows: "Reimbursement of the funds referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article will be implemented by 01 June 2016 at the latest, and the Republic of Croatia is obliged to pay legally tightened interest until its obligation is fulfilled". The amendment is not accepted, no recovery deadline is accepted by 2016, as it would be too short in view of the estimated funds in the budget, dynamics, payment deadlines are provided for taking into account the available financial resources. It is also not accepted that the Republic of Croatia has paid legally tightened interest until its commitment has been made, since the loans granted have been unambiguous loans and, by amending paragraph 2, Article 10b of the PPDS Act, is intended to enable the recovery of those funds in accordance with Article 10b, paragraph 1 of the Law on areas of special state care.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81184	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, Drazen Djurovic, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81185	Thank you. Well, fellow predecessors have actually made very rational arguments, our only proposal was if it was already so that these funds are planned for the next financial year, if they can't already be rebalanced for this year because we really don't see what the problem is that the state has taken over its own commitment regardless of the mandate that the Government is simply achieving towards its Croatian citizens. Especially since it is not an excessive obligation that the state cannot fulfil. Therefore, we do not see any reason simply by that category of Croatian defenders and victims, the commitment of the state of 8 million kuna is simply not fulfilled within a short period of time than the estimated deadline of the next 3 years. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81186	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 2 of the HDSSB Representatives Club. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 3 of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81187	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, it is not possible to accept a period of return until 2016 because it would be too short, given that...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81188	So the same explanation as the amendment...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81189	Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81190	Yes, thank you very much. I'd like an honorary representative of the Adriatic Kosor, the applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, although we tried not to convince you for a long time yesterday rather than to point out the legal consequences of the adoption of this law and the overrunning of the deadline, namely these funds that we speak of from slightly less than 8 million kunas that were to be paid to Croatian defenders and families of the dead Croatian defenders, are legal obligations, this legal obligation was valid until June 2nd, and since we are only changing the law today, you have left an incredibly large deadline, and in an explanation you yourself have written that you are extending that deadline due to a lack of respect for the law. Thus, the government made it clear in the light of the law that it did not comply with the law. I suggest that those less than 8 million kunas to be paid to Croatian defenders, I repeat, and the families of the deceased defenders are paid not until 2017, but by 2016, it means in a year, but here I propose two years, so for each year and the next and the one behind, 4 million kuna should be found in 2016. If this is not possible in the Croatian State Budget, then indeed we who participated in the draft budget know how difficult it is to draw up the budget, but 4 million kunas in the state budget can be found now, immediately. We've been telling you from which position it's possible. So I suggest, Mr. Deputy, that you accept it anyway because you have opened the space for lawsuits to Croatian defenders and members of their families anyway. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81192	Thank you very much. Please state who is for amendment number three of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor whom the government does not accept? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 4 of the HDZ Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81193	The government doesn't accept the amendment. We find the article misunderstood. The list of championships in accordance with Article 12a of the Law on areas of special state care for the current year shall be established by the administrations of the state administration or by the competent administrative authority of the city of Zagreb by 30 April and there shall be no need to establish after the entry into force of this legislative proposal. Also, the lists of championships shall not be adopted in the administrative procedure and in accordance with Article 12(5). The law on areas of special state care applicants shall already have the right to object within 8 days of their publication on the website and the advertising plate of the Office of State Administration in Countys or the competent administrative body of the city of Zagreb, in accordance with Article 157i paragraph 2. The General Administrative Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81194	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81195	Look, Mr. Deputy, I don't think you understand the meaning of our amendment well, so we'll try to explain it to you. Although the Government has designed these amendments for a very narrow group, an interest group that should in some way be helped by the provisions of this law should act equally on everyone. And that means that when you bring a list of priorities about this is the essence of this amendment, that is, a list of people who acquire a permanent right by acting on the authority of the state administration, the acquisition of rights under the act of the state administration is no doubt what must happen in the administrative procedure under the Law on General Administrative Procedure, and not beyond it. And if you prevent people who acquire rights from competing for funds and making objections if their demands are not adequately evaluated, you are in breach of the basic principles of the rule of law, and among other things you are avoiding the obligation that you are entitled to as a body of state administration, which is that you are acting under the General Administrative Procedure Act. The existing list of priorities was not delivered to the parties interested, so they could not even make their objections. And for this reason, we have submitted an amendment to reopen the deadline for all to compete for the funds to be paid out of the state budget in view of the entry into force of this amended law. Otherwise, you are violating legal obligations that are not allowed even to your ministry and we are asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81196	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number four of the HDZ Clubs that the government has not accepted? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 5 of the Legislative Committee, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81197	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81198	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number six of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81199	I apologize only, the previous amendment is accepted in a changed form, so if I may read the explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81200	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81201	The Government of the Republic of Croatia agreed to the Prime Minister to accept the amendments to Article 3 in its conclusion of 11.6.4. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fields of Special State Care in an amended form in a way that reads in Article 3(2) in the manner referred to in Article 8(3) to (7) shall be replaced by the words referred to in Article 8(1) to (7).
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81202	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Legislatives, the chairman of the Committee? Nothing. Amendment number 6 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81203	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81204	Is it accepted in a modified form?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81205	It is not accepted as proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81206	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 7 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is an integral part of the final text because it arrived within the business period. Amendment number 8 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81207	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81208	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment 9 was also sent by the government within the deadline for the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure and became an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the vote is 76 votes in favour and 16 votes against P.Z. law. No. 670 in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81209	We continue with: - Final proposal of the Law implementing the European Union regulation on the European Group for Territorial Cooperation, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No.672. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives. You received the reports at the session. We have the secretary of management with the deputy. Arsen Bauk, please welcome the Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81210	Dear Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament, at its meeting on 14 June 2013, the Law implementing Regulation No 1082/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006 on the European Group for Territorial Cooperation of the EGF. The law entered into force on the date of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The EGTS Regulation 2996 regulates to overcome obstacles to territorial co-operation, the establishment of a Community-level cooperation instrument with the legal personality status of the European Group for Territorial Cooperation. The EGTS is a new form of legal personality that can be established with the need to establish cross-border cooperation activities. The objective and purpose of the establishment of the EGF is to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion. There are currently 46 EGTS registered in the European Union. In order to improve the legal instrument of the EGF, Regulation 2006 was amended by EU Regulation No 1302/2013. The European Parliament and the Council of 17 December amending Regulation (EC) No 1082/2006. on the European Group on Territorial Cooperation in relation to the clarification, simplification and improvement of the establishment and functioning of such groups. The EGTS task is to implement a cooperation programme or parts thereof or to carry out operations supported by the Union through the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund or the Cohesion Fund. The main paper provided for in the EGTS Regulation of 2013 provided for the possibility that persons of private or public law should become members of the EGTS and that third countries of neighbouring Member States may participate in the EGTS. The period for approval, participation in the EGTS was extended to 6 months, and the approval procedure is now limited only to the convention, but not to the statute as it was before. In addition, the terminology-compliant earlier regulation and the term community was replaced by the term Union. This proposal for a law shall ensure the implementation of that EU regulation, which has been organised by the EGTS Institute. The implementation of the regulation is estimated to be more transparent and more efficient and to ensure a new law rather than supplementing or amending the existing EGTS Regulation law. The law defines the competent national authorities for individual actions, regulates the procedure for the authorisation of membership in the EGTS, members of the Republic of Croatia and defines the status of the EGTS established in the Republic of Croatia. The body responsible for implementing the Regulations and the laws of the Ministry of Administration in which the political system and the system of local and regional self-government, given the scope of the amendment to the Regulation, has joined the creation of a new law. The law must enter into force no later than 22 June 2014 since the application of the amended Regulation. And for information, six requests for participation in the EGTC have been seized at the Ministry of Management. Virovitica-Podravska County and the Municipality of Antunovac requested approval to participate in the EGTC Pannon, Istria County requested approval to participate in the EGTC Euroregio Senza Confini r.l., therefore, and Primorje-goranska, Karlovačka and Varazdin County requested approval to participate in the EGTC Central European Transport Corridor CETC, route 65 which will be resolved under the provisions of the old law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81211	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with a co-worker. So, before us, as the minister nicely said, the proposal for a law implementing the EU regulation on the European Group for Territorial Cooperation with the final draft of the law, and the main motive for the adoption of this same bill is to amend the EU regulation. Of course, it is common in this House that when such regulations are passed to a large majority, they are almost always followed by an urgent procedure, that it is a common procedure which was for the past government, which is now and is very rarely discussed, and that some times in such proposals, with the exception that this must be passed by the Law on a proposal for a regulation, some ministries use this situation to implement some other amendments and supplement the law, and by justifying this necessity of change due to different EU regulations. I'm not saying that that's the case this time, but there have been such practices in the Croatian Parliament. Why is this law important too? Because there are also envious financial resources in the EU funds precisely for the realisation of such projects that relate to the EGTS, i.e. for the cooperation of certain regions in Croatian counties that rely cross-border on individual other regions of the EU. The minister listed 6 here, if I have heard correctly, already the programmes of some of our regions and counties that have applied for the implementation of the programme and, as the minister pointed out, correct me if I have heard wrongly, that they will be implemented under the old law, i.e. in accordance with the old EU regulation. However, since it is the EU's resources, given that there is an interest in our counties and our regions, the question is whether this proposal for a law implementing the EU regulation in the European Group for Territorial Cooperation with the final draft of the law, which is based on the new EU regulation, could it in any way have been better adapted, or could this regulation have been better implemented in this proposal of the law? By preparing ourselves, of course, for the debate, we are calling here for the opinion of the Croatian Community of the counties who, when adopting this law and calling for them to point out the preparation of the law, have also made some very concrete remarks that we hold if adopted by the competent ministry in order to make this bill better. Therefore, one of the objections is to that provision, which determines the State body, the Ministry of Business as referred to in Article 5 of the proposal. The opinion of the Croatian Community is thus a county that, in a specific case, it should be the central central state body for regional development and EU funds in view of its competence and certain laws. In our view, this is also logical because this entire European Group for Territorial Cooperation programme is based on the joint implementation of certain cross-border projects which then receive financial support from EU funds. Since there is already a central body for the regional development of EU funds in the Republic of Croatia that is thus considering certain financial projects and project preparation, we believe it would be logical and compatible to deal with this as well. The second proposal was also to delete the word contained in the statutes since only the EGTC Convention should be subject to the subject of government approval. The Croatian County Community also proposes a 6-month reduction from 6 months to 3 months, so those themselves who are obliged to do something within 6 months believe that, according to this proposal, the deadline is unnecessaryly long and may be shorter than 3 months. I guess they want to achieve a certain better operationalisation of the implementation of this programme. Furthermore, this law stipulates that the EGTC, based in the Republic of Croatia, is established as a public institution. This restriction of the legal form of the EGTC is only one status form, which seems to be limited to potential members and, in view of the practice of other European countries, it is proposed that the EGTS has the property of a legal person without indicating a specific form, which would open up the possibility of being a public institution and also a company, and ultimately, in accordance with the interests of a particular membership. In that sense, everything proposed by this law, which the minister has explained, we believe that this law on EU implementation of the European Group on Territorial Cooperation, with the final proposal for a law, would be a better quality of implementation of the EU regulation that we are obliged to implement in the Croatian legislation that we are obliged to comply with. In particular, I would refer to and mention once again, that it is doing better rationalisation and for everything that the minister has listed already six existing examples that have been related to the State Regional Development Authority, the EU funds, in order to be more instructed, more practical, I will not say more transparently, but in any case it could be easier to operate in such a way that it is arranged in this way. We do not have any particular political motive to point to this or that in this debate, but only the position of our club is based on what the county community has signed, considering that still those interested in projects which they have applied in a certain way still have the right and on the basis of their experience, on the basis of the desire for specific projects to implement here through us representatives in the Croatian Parliament in order to prepare a better quality law on the implementation of the EU regulation in the European Group on Territorial Co-operation, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81213	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. I thank the minister with the assistant.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81214	Final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the EU Regulation and on the European Group on Territorial Cooperation, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 672. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 94 votes to pass the P.Z.E. Act. No. 672.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81215	We continue with: - Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the mutual protection of classified data, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 673; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You've received reports. With us is Deputy Minister of Justice Ms Sandra Artuković Kunšt. Here you go, Deputy Chief.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies' representatives and gentlemen's representatives. The Government proposes to adopt the Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the mutual protection of classified data, and this is one of the contracts which achieves information security at bilateral level and the application of certain measures and standards in the exchange of data between the Republic of Croatia and other countries specifically the Grand Duchy of Luxeborugue. This law confirms the contract which we concluded on 13 March 2014 in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 141(1). The Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Treaty lays down a legal framework for the protection of classified data that arises or is exchanged between Contracting Parties, the competent authorities for the implementation of the contract, the identical concepts of degrees of secrecy, the treatment of classified data are laid down, measures concerning national measures for the protection of classified data, mechanisms for the transmission of such data are laid down. Specific provisions on classified contracts are also contained, the way in which visits and meetings of experts on this subject are established, the handling of security infringements and the question of the implementation of the costs incurred in the implementation of the contract. In view of the nature of the confirmation of international contracts and the fact that the state formally expresses its willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract, and at this stage of the treaty amendment process, it is no longer possible to adopt this law by means of an emergency procedure uniting first and second reading, and, finally, no additional resources are needed in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81217	Thank you too, Deputy. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of HDZ Representatives Club Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed deputy. Therefore, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the Protection of Mutually Classified Data, with the Final Proposal for the Law. We have seen and already seen such bill proposals here in the Croatian Parliament, it is practically about minimal changes, the constitutional basis for lawmaking is clear, and the assessment of the situation and the goal that the law aims to achieve is clear and basic issues that are proposed to be regulated by the law. I hope that it is clear and an assessment of the resources necessary for the implementation of the law, although it is very often happening to us in this Croatian Assembly that it is not particularly visible and that we often go into gray here to not say black zone. We at the HDZ Club are absolutely certain that the problem with classified data between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg will not be. However, when you see this title immediately remember our domestic situation and the possibility of finding certain classified and classified data in printed media in electronic media and etc., etc. It is nice when here in the Croatian Parliament we get to ratify the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between our Government and the Government of another country, this case of Luxemburg. And at the same time, we are witnessing almost daily that in the media we can find classified data with a certain degree of secrecy, information, notices, statements that have not yet arrived and address where they should be addressed. Of course it is a little bit bizarre in some way that we have such laws in international change and in the domestic situation we are unable to control that such things are not happening, that the Prime Minister is not using these data as part of a media strategy, that his own former government ministers are accusing him of doing so, that he is presenting certain data related to a daily political base that should be classified. And in that sense, it fills us with certain concerns. Such data should not be part of any media strategy, at least media, governmental or any other officials, in the domestic legal and living space. In this regard, of course, it is important to say this during this Confirmation of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, regardless of what may not have a direct connection but it has a lot to do with the protection of classified data which we have no doubt that in the mutual transmission with the Grand Duchy of Luxemburg we will succeed in ensuring this, we are much more concerned with their issue related to our domestic frameworks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81219	Thank you. You've managed half the debate, slightly less than half the debate to commit to the law. We have one replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81220	Thank you very much. I'll also try to transfer this law to domestic waters. I'm interested in my colleague Mesic. Are you aware of the difference between when someone says 0 and 10 and it's supposed to be some kind of classified information? Do you see any difference? Or maybe someone thinks it's zero or zero, as they say it's not a number and 10 is a number. Are we going to treat Luxembourg tomorrow with such interpretation and thinking and respect for this law and do you think we can get away with it in Europe?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81221	Answer, fellow Mesic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81222	Dear fellow Shuker, you've been following my statements closely, I've been talking about this law all along, I'm sorry some may not have followed closely. So the difference between 0 and 10 is that there are 10 units in front of zero. And of course, even in such simple binary things, 1010101 must be followed absolutely in European contexts by what is signed. Because if you remember, we had in this Croatian Parliament and other things that we had committed to within the framework of the European Union, remember only certain laws on extradition cooperation, etc., we, when we did not adhere to it, lost credibility, unfortunately as the Republic lost credibility. Not the individuals responsible, but as the Republic, they lost credibility. And that's why it's very important that what you said be consistently applied. As for the law as I said in the debate, the law can be said tradeably well based on what we already had opportunities to see in this Croatian Assembly. Of course, the question of individual responsibilities that you have touched in your replica, and what I have said, decidedly speaking all the time about this law, is important in order to have adequate consequences in society that are unfortunately not constantly present. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81223	Thank you. We owe my friend Mesic one clarification. Four minutes of your debate, two minutes and 20 seconds, you haven't discussed the text of the law. It was my remark, you took the opportunity, of course, which is always legitimate. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81224	Dear Mr. Vice President, Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, I really don't understand why you think all this stuff I've been saying isn't about the law. So this law aims to ensure 238. [[Intruding Batinić: Col. Mesic, allow me, 200 which?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81225	There isn't. He wasn't injured by 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81226	Can I just say it all the way?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81227	No, you can't, you can't say because he's not hurt, please state the article of the Rules of Procedure that I hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81228	Mr. President, I can go out for a pay phone and for 15 minutes on behalf of the club, shut up if I want to and not get someone to pick up every line, and I was really talking about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81229	My colleague Mesic, you have announced a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81230	Yes, 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81231	No, he wasn't hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81232	The 239th was... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81233	Article of the Rules of Procedure, which means that during the debate proceedings, a representative must not, it shall be listed what is laughing, so you have brought to me the violation of the Rules of Procedure that I have injured the Rules of Procedure. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81234	What's my option, Mr. Vice President, after you say "stop"?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81235	Nothing. So if I say there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure and you think that I, as chairman, have injured the Rules of Procedure... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81236	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81237	This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. I thank the Deputy Minister. Now we'll take a break, continue at 3:00 and 15 minutes with item 15. Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan for statistical activities for 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81238	Final proposal of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the mutual protection of classified data, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 673. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 94 votes to pass the P.Z. Act. No. 673.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81239	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue the debate. We will discuss - Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2013 The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a report on the basis of Article 33. The law on official statistics. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. Introductoryly, the report will be presented by Professor Dr Saša Zelenika, Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81240	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 33 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Law on Official Statistics, the State Institute drawn up a draft draft report on the implementation of the 2013 Annual Implementation Plan, which had the obligation to do by 31 May of the current year, so the draft adopted the opinion of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Croatia, which was held on 12 May, so a month ago, adopted the document in question. Therefore, this is the first report relating to the period covered by the multiannual programming document of the National Statistics Institute and the new strategy for the development of official statistics from 2013 to 2022 as well as the programme from the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia from 2013 to 2017. The report contains a review of the most significant development activities and the most interesting results of statistical research. The first part of the report, other than the introduction in which the statistical area is briefly described, contains only those studies where improvements have been made. For example, improving methodology, reviewing, introducing new and modifying existing research, in order to comply with national or European standards. The first part contains an overview of the results of the projects, i.e. the development activities carried out during the year in question. The second part of the report shall include a review table with a list of all planned surveys in statistical fields, including certificates... of each survey, or a brief explanation in the event that the survey has not been carried out in full or in accordance with the defined deadlines set out in the annual plan. Overall, 283 statistical surveys were envisaged in the past year, based on direct data collection, 58 based on administrative data sources and 37 development activities. In the last year, the State Institute conducted a total of 211 researches, which are 140 directly, 42 based on administrative sources and 29 development activities. This difference in number occurred as a result of the lack of resources in 2013, when therefore two statistical surveys were not carried out and this was done through the methodology of calculating the value of the long-term assets of the Republic of Croatia and structural variables in the area of distribution trade. These activities are then included in the 2014 plan. For the implementation of statistical activities in the past year, the State Statistics Institute plans 96.46 million kuna, and 87.3, so it is seen that it has very rationally available its resources, so please support the report in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81241	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain. He's not there. The club loses the right to debate on this wheel. On behalf of the SDP representative club, counterpart Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81242	Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Deputy Minister, respected director of the State Statistics Institute. Here, therefore, is the 2013 report, as shown in the report, actually the State Statistics Institute is the main holder and coordinator of these statistical activities although it is not the only body doing this job and the Deputy Minister has initially said that of the envisaged 283 statistical surveys, 2 were not made among other things and because, in fact, the basic reason for this is human resources..., i.e. sub-optimality. Last year we had the same report, it was quite different, and I actually just wanted to point out that this way it was addressed much more transparently and it can actually see a lot and see some trends that might be worrying to us just because statistics and serve to shape public policies. Last year, I argued that the State Statistics Service had 142 employees less than is provided for by its regulation, so I asked whether the employment regulation was too extensively planned. I didn't get the exact answer, but we got the data in this report, so it shows that the State Statistics Service employs 549 employees and that its number has continued to decline from year to year, so there are 8% fewer employees compared to two years ago. What I would point out as personal concern is the structure of those who are employed because if you have only 2% in the State Statistics Office of those who are less than 30 years old, which should therefore, although the educated structure is quite satisfactory, then you are in fact clear that the enormous efforts are being made to meet the annual plans. Also, what's actually worrying is that 40% of the staff and staff members of the State Statistics Office have 51 to 60 years of age and I don't have any intensities that anyone understands me that at some point in time and in one way I'm discriminating, I'm assuming that there is actually a need to invest additional and financial and time resources for retraining these staffs because the State Statistics Office and other institutions have to modernise when it comes to methods used. One of the basic activities that was in 2013 was the processing of data from the 2011 census, and we also see some other worrying trends. I once talked about it here when statistics were a topic. In fact, we are also older as a nation and when we compare data, although it is very difficult to compare them because of a different methodology to the 2001 census, we are one of the oldest European nations because we are on average 41.7 years old. The report only shows what we know from some of the other discussions we have in this House that the oldest population lives in Lika-Senjska, Sibenik-Kninsko-Kninj County and the youngest in Međimurska, Zagrebačka, Vukovar-Srijemska and Brodsko-Posaviska. These are, of course, social and demographic statistics. The report also provides some other statistics such as tourism statistics. We know how much expectations each year, how much tourism it carries in the GDP of the Republic of Croatia, and in percentages and billions of euros. We also learned about the structure of tourists where it is actually visible that the trends are still such as the Germans or the Austrians most visited the Croatian coast. Of these other statistics that are particularly important, such as macroeconomic statistics, I would say that a huge role has been taken over, and we knew that it will be waiting for us in view of the entry into the European Union, which is that the State Statistics Institute has taken over from the Ministry of Finance the construction of a fiscal report which it is also coordinating with the CNB and in accordance with the agreement signed. A lot of efforts have been made equally to show trade in goods, both within the European Union, so between Croatia and the Member States of the European Union and these external trade statistics in terms of trade in goods with non-member countries of the European Union. I would, of course, be happier and happier if this too important report was therefore, when it comes to state property, the long-term assets of the Republic of Croatia were carried out, but as I pointed out at the very beginning, no wonder given the humane insufficiency. The state statistical office spent about 10% less of the funds it was provided in the state budget and rationalising its business, but modernisation is seen through all items. In any case, it should be commended for the modernisation in terms of the dissemination of data, but also for the collection of data that have been mostly conducted electronically lately, as well as their official representation. More or less everything else is covered, some other bodies that carry out just as much statistical data, or collect and process them, are in charge of other areas and I hope that, at one time, we will, as we say, point out the importance of statistics, but in the context of the law that we have to discuss more seriously, because very often, as often as we so nominally and declarably point out the importance of statistics. I don't see that with all the attention and access to her, or reports like this. Finally, I will just say that the SDP Club will certainly support this report because it is visible that it is working in accordance with EUROSTAT's policies, i.e. the European Union, as well as the implementation of the UN's basic principles in terms of transparency and availability of data, i.e. making it easier to handle these data to end-users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81243	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81244	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. Well, statistically speaking, we're in this House today by the clubs very well represented, 60% of us are here, and it best says what statistics are and how if it shows information without explanation can create a pretty fake picture. So this picture in the Assembly tells you best because there are six clubs here, but what's the number of MPs that's the second pair of shoes. However, what I would like to say is that this report is very important for one reason, which is that this report by the Institute of Statistics is very much the basis in Brussels for Croatia to exercise many of its rights or to lose some rights. So, as you have seen in this material, what was once within the Ministry of Finance, first of all, as far as macroeconomic indicators and cooperation with some other institutions are concerned, it is now in the State Statistics Office, and it may not be a good thing that the State Statistics Institute is still based on the Ministry of Science because it no longer belongs there, except for that scientific section, but this is a practical part of science. And that's what maybe you should think about organisationally differently setting up the State Statistics Institute or relying on the Ministry of Finance or making it a separate institution. And later in my debate, I will try to touch some topics, although I can say that the report is technically correct. Perhaps because, and you will see in the later part of my debate, some things may have required further clarification for the simple reason this is the first time this report has happened. And there are some figures, there are some amounts that before the same relevant financial reports that he adopted and accepted EUROSTAT looked different. It may therefore have been necessary to clarify that there has been a change in methodology, that certain things are viewed differently as in the 2014 report it will be very important to keep budget records and bookkeeping under SO 2010 methodology. Well, let's get in line. So what's very important is this demographic part of social statistics that's very important when you're doing any school plans over anything. You just have to have this demographic background so we can do something. However, why I said I needed to explain in this report some things a little wider. Here it is, the first thing that should have been explained, and that's on page 13, when it's said that from two statistical regions, actually three statistical regions are no longer three anymore, but there are two left. And we can't say it's, some say it doesn't matter, some say it matters. And since the State Office for Statistics has provided a basis for whether there will be two, three, one, four or five, and at the end and on the basis of their proposal and when making the first decision on statistical regions here, one card of reasoning should be made for me, and what it means for Croatia, for certain parts of Croatia in achieving the right to withdraw funds from the European funds tomorrow. Which means that this development is based on what some right is being realized. Because you need to know that, colleague Hajdukovic, you should replicate when I say to the end, then you probably won't have anything to replicate. I'm kidding, right? So, there are people who do not deal with this part and it would be good in such reports that come before the Croatian Parliament to clarify this because probably when we discuss the 2014 report, then we will already have concrete data on how much money is withdrawn in two years, how much is the Croatian member of the EU, how these coins are distributed in certain regions and areas of the Republic of Croatia, how much they could really withdraw and how much they could get for some projects, and how much they would get. So it's missing one of the text cards because you just wrote here that you should completely redesign samples for a social survey with changes in stratification. The new draft sample was needed to obtain representative evaluations for Croatia's new division into two statistical regions. Well, if you've already written it here, then that should have been further explained. Then I think it would be a matter of complete and complete circle. Next, I'm sorry to get my glasses. A colleague used to come here with a block of paper like this. I thought about what he'd say so much, then I realized he had big letters like this. Statistical research is therefore carried out for the purposes of drawing up quarterly, annual national accounts. What is very important, and this is the methodology of national accounts and has started working on the 2010 ESU promotion. The ESA in 2010 will, unfortunately, change in a negative sense a picture of macroeconomic indicators in the Republic of Croatia. First of all, the share of public debt in the gross domestic product will rise to 80 % and more, but let's say about 80% because many of the things that are now do not lead to public debt by ESA 2010 will be conducted in public debt. And that's something when you pull the parallel when Croatia can even think about becoming a member of the euro area then it's the key information. Because if you have a stake in a public debt of 80%, then the logical thing is that some time unfortunately you can't count on becoming a member of the euro area. And that's something to read from this document and then there's no political bickering on the left or on the right. And that's the point, that new way and model of functioning of the State Statistics Office. But I'm saying, there's only a reference to this ESA in 2010, although unfortunately, many of them have no offense to deal with this part of the job, and they don't know what it means, so why not 2014 and so on. So these are things that are very much relevant to what Croatia will be able to get and what kind of treatment Croatia will have in this financial area. The national statistical office shall shorten the period for the production of the reference period and the publication of the official data. There, practically from 80 to 70 days, the deadline for publication of data on the state of the gross domestic product was reduced. It's nice it's just not good when the vice president feels like it's going to look a little different and then after five, six days goes, an unofficial result comes out that's what it is. And then it's just not clear to me, I expected at least in the opening part, although perhaps not Mr. Zelenika's Deputy Minister of Science, but the Director of the Department of Statistics to explain to us that calculation that it's not an economic downturn, but economic growth. Now I'm curious about what the methodology is, is it some new methodology patented by this government or is it something related to ESA 2011. Because if it's a negative 0.4% drop, then it's a decline, and it can't possibly be growth. But I'm saying there are some things that aren't exactly the end of the clarification. However, there is one information which is on page 22, which is a public debt which redefines certain things and a consolidated debt of the general state where I simply needed to explain some things for the reason that several months ago it was the subject of first-class political bickering. And to say that the difference between the deficit that has been adopted here and the rise in public debt is uneducated here, and statistically it simply remains a visit in the air because some things are not something that happens year after year, some things have one-time character and they are one-timed, and that might make that year worse indicators. So it would be very interesting to see what was built into the 2011 State budget deficit that it jumped by 10 billion compared to what was or say what happened in the deficit in 2012 that it jumped from 10 billion to 16.5 billion. So I know personally what it is but I think in this explanation it should have been written. Why am I saying that? Because the reasons why it's shown like this are no secret. In official data from previous years, when you count all of this number to the last lip you have recorded. So, as far as shipbuilding is concerned, all the guarantees issued to Croatian shipbuilding are recorded in the budget implementation reports. And this increase of 9 billion 2011 is nothing that happened spectacularly and that it was not known because the State budget report recorded all the guarantees. Also recorded are the protested guarantees protested at the expense of the state budget. And she's being treated and watered differently. And that's very important to explain here. Why? Because I mentioned to the ESA in 2010 and if this report were made according to the ESA 2010 model, it would look different to you again. And that's why it's good, since we're going to adopt this report like this, and when we discuss the 2014 Report, when probably in the 10th month of 2014, the ESA 2010 methodology is going to be applied to you, and it's going to be four years, then these some indicators you have on page 22 will look quite different to you today. And no one can say that the guarantees given to Croatian highways and guarantees and loans that you have this year have a billion and 50 million kunas for HBOR that are not registered and that they are not seen here in this High House, only according to the ESA 2010 above all HBOR and Croatian highways they are mostly entering the general debt of the state and entering now with the deficit will probably not be but enter the debt of the general state and it will thus increase the debt. But I'm saying if you leave one undefined story about macroeconomic statistics and leave a dead letter on paper like this then come up with what I was talking about at the beginning of my debate, which is that... Clubs at 60%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's how many MPs it is, it's totally irrelevant. However, what was particularly surprising to me and to what I was constantly angry at as I was Minister of Finance, and also the representative before that this is the chapter of business statistics on page 25. I am really interested in the financial and economic effect of the tourist season. Because the governor of the CNB, Mr. Rohatinski, was still six or seven years ago saying he was going to change the methodology for calculating the traffic of the tourist season. And why am I saying that? Without intent, don't get me wrong, colleagues and colleagues, when you look at a little Budget of the Republic of Croatia, and when you're given revenues, first of all by excise duties and VAT per month, then you'd see that this aggregate indicator, again I'm going back to the beginning of my debate on how much clubs are statistically represented simply you can't, you can't recognize this traffic from tourism in the state budget. Because in the 7th, 8, 9, 10th month, you would have to see boom and VAT and excise duties, especially after there was a new way of calculating excise duties a year and a half ago. And that is why both the State Statistics Institute and the CNB would first and foremost have to make a new model of calculation, the methodology for calculating transport from tourism because this methodology is still slightly related to the time of the agreed economy. And I think that first of all, we need to change this data because all this data that the DZS is sending to EUROSTAT is the basis for whether Croatia will have or will not have the right to something tomorrow. The other thing, here is talking in one part I saw now I don't know exactly what page it's on, it's also talking about the gray economy. The gray economy is something that monitors all the economies of the world. It's less in order, it's much more messy. Likewise, if one better quality methodology was made, and economic analysts would then find a model and a way to compare it with increased revenues in the state budget during the tourist season, very quickly there could be some indicator and scientific and practical how much the share of the grey economy in tourism is. And what may have remained a little cloudy with tourism in all these economic activities is agriculture. Why agriculture? For the simple reason that we in the state budget have given more than 5 billion kunas for incentives in agriculture, it has now fallen, but these farmers have practically received the largest envelope in Brussels. And we need to see how much these agricultural products are related to this effect of tourism and how much we have actual imports of agricultural products. And when we are in such a way analytically and statistically observing important things, then we will discuss essential and exact things in this House without political sound. So this is a well-intentioned proposal, perhaps in which direction the report should go next year, because you have such bases, and we need these materials to be able to discuss things in a better way so that I don't speak in my head. But these must be two things, so maybe I'll get back to each other later, which I should think about. First of all, the methodology for calculating transport from tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81245	Thank you. Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81246	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, a colleague that I've listened to all the way and I still have a replica. I was encouraged by something in the replica, what you said about statistical regions and the possibility of withdrawing funds from the EU in line with statistical regions. But what I haven't been able to say in this House yet, and I think it's a more important problem than these statistical regions, it's our sub-capacitation in terms of the personnel that need to work on withdrawing these funds. So, first of all, I'm talking about local administration units, i.e. self-government, regionally, then different development agencies that work again usually in the county area. It is interesting to note that county development agencies are generally better than those of different cities, or municipalities. So this is a much more important problem for me if we talk about how much funds we will withdraw from European funds. Because ultimately, statistical regions will not judge it, but rather whether we have enough personnel who are educated for it, and I'm afraid we haven't prepared well here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81247	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81248	Comrade Hajdukovic, around this part we will agree, it is not at all disputed that some are capable, and they have built capacities, and can withdraw more or less. However, the point of statistical regions is how much your share is in some project. And your share depends on the level of development. And so I'm saying, I didn't say, in general, I didn't suggest whether it was 2, 3, 4 or 5, so I didn't talk about it at all, but I just said that in this report, the Bureau of Statistics needed to explain why after he proposed 3, he proposed 2. You understand? Because if I suggest something before then and then I re-edit it, then I have to say why I did it. So it doesn't matter if your participation is going to be if you're poor 65 or you're going to be 55 because someone put you in a basket with someone who's rich and then you can have no idea what capacity you can have great programs but you can't secure your 45% of the funds. So that's what this is about, nothing else. And that's the problem of statistical regions, not the problem of statistical regions, father someone being with someone, that's something else entirely. However, the biggest problem of the Republic of Croatia is regional underdevelopment. And when we've discussed this point before, we won't be able to argue when we pass the Regional Development Act, and when people start dealing with programs, and that they're able to attract funds,... They won't watch who's what national, you understand? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now that that's gone, people deal with crap. And that's why, precisely because of these crackdowns, maybe this report should have been the basis for us to finish this story, to finally explain why he proposed two regions. Look, no minister or Prime Minister could have made such a decision without any such basis, or if he made such a decision, then made for political reasons, and then let him take political responsibility for it because it doesn't make sense if someone can get 70.75% of the funds due to a low level of development from EU funds, and because someone statistically put him in some region, he won't get 65, and 10% will have to secure more own funds. Let's not look at that nominal part, I'm going back to the beginning of my session about, in fact, the debate, the percentage of club representation. So here and here, we're going to get so much and so much money, is, but what my share is inside, that's important and that's the most important thing of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81249	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81250	Thank you. That fellow Shuker, they might have said, if they couldn't explain why they suggested a reduction in the number of regions, statistical regions from 3 to 2, they might have been able to tell them who told them to propose it. So maybe they suggested it because someone told them that they thought it was supposed to be suggested, and then that circle closed. But when it comes to the State Statistics Service, it's a big company, or a big company, or a big system, it's 550 employees. Let's put it in the ranks of some company, it's a large number of people, and from that large number of people, employees, decades of tradition, we get one on thirty pages one methodologically rather inconsistencies report, pretty much in some chapters being entered, just describing the methods used, some getting into the elements of statistical displays, somewhere there's so little talk about it. So, I think the State Statistics Institute could come up with a much, much more high-quality, much more coherent report when it's already talking to the Croatian Assembly with a report like this at all, is here, in fact, when you go to the chapters, it doesn't see exactly the sense of general presentation, given that somewhere it's talking about the types of statistical displays that have been used, and somewhere it gets a little bit into the descriptions and analysis of these statistics, and then it just keeps on showing statistics that have been used. And in the end, I must admit that I was asked to read that account of what it is for, with which it comes, what it is for, and for exactly what reason we are discussing it today in general.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81251	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81252	A colleague Đurovic, so these three topics that I tried on behalf of the HDZ club somehow focussed has a clear reason. For this macroeconomic part I explained, I tried for these statistical regions as well. Why? Therefore, the first basis for the number of statistical regions in the Republic of Croatia, there somewhere in 2007, was created in 5 statistical regions, by the State Statistics Office. Then, for some reason, a basis for the 2 statistical regions was created and they were practically led, completed negotiations, that Croatia will practically have this continental statistical region and that of the Adriatic region. And then someone remembered and again, based on the basis of the State Statistics Institute, proposed three regions. Now, that's not exactly so that can be done is now we're going to go 2, we're going to go 3, we're going to go 4. It does not matter to me at all how much the share of the domestic component, namely the municipalities, cities, and counties in the area of special state care, is very important whether their share is 20, 30 or 35 or 45%, it is very important to them because they are practically a large part of their practically fixed costs and cold power of the county can finance from what will be left of their reduced share. That's why it had to be explained here, if I say, if someone made a political decision then he had to have a basis for it, if he made that political decision without a basis, then it's irresponsible. And remember how much we debated in this House about Croatia's division into statistical regions. Many have realised that this is some kind of regional division, but it is primarily a division of the money that we can get from the European Union. It is not clear to me if someone can get 70% or 75% because they are less developed, so it is not a shame to admit, although for him it is better, and those who are better developed Zagreb and the surrounding area should be at 50.55% for God's sake. So when you look at their calculations, when you look at their employment, the average salary then you'll see that it's simply something that's completely real.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81253	On behalf of the HNS Representatives Club, colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81254	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Deputy Director with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. So on behalf of the HNS Club, we'll support this report. Of course last year we had a somewhat broader descriptive report, and this report is also very acceptable because what is based on the work of the State Statistics Office is all we can find on their websites and there is no need for this issue that, apart from the guidance it has, we have among the materials. So everything is very accessible. What is important to point out, last year we had an emphasis in the report that it was planned, i.e. it was planned at the State Statistics Office by the systematization of some 780 employees, and as we see a decrease in the number of employees, although it is necessary and necessary, and due to additional jobs, that, although the number of employees should be increased because at this point in time, the relevant and non-permanent and quality data which are the basis for both analysis and for decision-making and information, we must ensure that the State Statistics Office is doing its job in the manner that it exists. Surely, the very fact that the operator of the coordinator activity is the State Statistics Institute which has taken over the role that the Ministry of Finance has played so far, which is the holder of fiscal reports which is a novelty of EU accession. Then the improvement in the assessment that it's working on, I believe it's over now, and that's an estimate of income... an activity that always opens up space in both GDP calculations and basically the state of society to see what it is and how it is. At times, those figures were spinning immediately from 5% to 30% and we were never really sure, and not today how much of the income from illegal activities that are extremely important, not just for the sake of analysis, but because of this factual state. By entering the EU and applying the ESO 95 methodology, we have been given the opportunity to have data that we can compare with other EU members. We also know that as of September this year, the ESO 2010 methodology will be applied, much to the state of the country will be regulated by this new methodology, new comparisons with other EU Member States. These methodologies will lead us, at least as regards public debt in an even more difficult position, which is quite clear as counterpart Shuker said, includes some guarantees and certain loans. Therefore, what is crucial for the State Statistics Institute at this point is to try to respond to the Government as well as to ensure the strengthening of human potential capacity, it is obvious that as far as IT is concerned that they have set up the system as appropriate and necessary and what is essential to work on additional analyses in order to make quality decisions. Certainly it is good and it would be necessary that when the ESO 2010 is introduced, a comparison to ESO 95 should be immediately introduced to see the situation as it has been in the last four, five years. So, not only is the debate in the Croatian Parliament on the issues of the situation, macroeconomic statistics and all other statistics and fiscal statistics, it is important to compare what is crucial that quality assessments and decisions can be made. So, this transition to the EU, aligning with the Eurostat is one of the key situations in which the State Statistics Institute has come, it is obvious that they have been prepared, that they have both accepted quality methods and methodologies, except that the holders have adequately stated this and ensured that Croatia can have quality, relevant data on this matter. However, what is certainly important and necessary is that all the data that we receive from the State Statistics Office be as up-to-date as possible and that the coverage is made available as much as possible. Why cover as big as possible? In the EU as well as in Croatia, the efficiency of the use of funds, in particular budgets, is extremely important in order to make timely decisions, efficiency is essential that budgets can be used in such a way that they are the most qualitative and efficient and rational and that is one of the key things to rationalise the budget and have the greatest effects. I can also feel free to say that I agree with the predecessor who discussed the methodology of calculation and tourism transport and income, it is necessary to consider whether it is adequate, whether it is essentially realistic and impartial because tourism, income from tourism in gross product, is growing to some 27% of GDP, which is extremely much, such methodology and such calculations have an exceptional impact on both the gross product and in general on the state of public finances themselves. This report, as I was saying in the introduction, is a good report. What is even more important than this report that DSZ is really well prepared but sub-compatible, that we must provide it with the possibility to ensure the conditions that it can do that part of the job because most institutions in the Republic not only the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not only the Croatian Parliament that makes the laws and decisions must necessarily have as much quality data as possible in order not to reduce the possibility of decisions going in a direction in which they are not adequate because we can hardly correct those decisions based on facts that are not reliable, which are not credible. So on behalf of the HNS Club and the work of the DSZ and this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81255	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81256	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. It is not only the DSZ provider of information on statistical data in the Republic of Croatia. So in the beginning, it says it was made in 2013. The strategy for developing official statistics that defines mission, vision, and general specific strategic objectives, and page 4 says who has all of this in statistical activities in 2013 according to the holders of official statistics. And these are DSZs in the amount, so the data is 75%, these other 25% is the Croatian Institute for Public Health 16% and another 2.3% and 4% of the CNB Ministry of Finance and then the other holders of official statistics. That DSZ has 550 employees for a country of 4 million and 290 thousand people could be viewed as statistical data, whether a glass is half-full or half-empty. So is that a lot of how we think or is it a little bit how one other club that spoke first today, a little employee. I just know that when we looked forward to the 2011 census results, they came a little bit to the dropper, maybe the first results after half a year, and we all got together here, and here, as I did, asked how this China does the census and all the data that comes out and how many days, years and months it takes to publish all the data that comes from the census. If in a country that has 4 million 290 thousand and has hired volunteers at the time of the census, pardon not volunteers but has hired a certain number of employees additionally, temporarily, that the data arranged is waiting very, very long and here are two years. Now what my colleague expected this report to show is the results themselves, not just the implementation of the annual implementation plan, so maybe it would be an expansion even though it was done in some of these segments of this report, and in some it's not. For example. I asked and tried to reach out to the data on how many young people moved from Croatia up to 35 years ago, and not just past, does it have such information in 2011, 2012, 2013? And here in this report it's clear that it's not there, even though I'm going to try to get that information from the DZS. In fact, at the State Office in Brod-Posavina County, I was also interested in whether such information could be obtained for Brod-Posavina County, so they told me that all data exists in the DZS, so I'll try to get them. Because some announcements and speeches here in the Parliament but also in the media indicated that it was two or three times the number of people who moved to 2013 from the Croatian belly after bread, so somewhere around 30 or more thousands compared to 2011, when it was about 10,000 a year. I only know that since the president of the Brazil-Croatia Interparliamentary Cooperation Society in Brazil has also moved 319 citizens to Brazil. Here we are today accidentally playing with Brazil, but I wanted to point out that for most of the workers working on oil wells, marine or ground oil wells. And they went exclusively for those reasons where such personnel profiles were sought. But if the fact is confirmed that more than 30,000 young people left Croatia in 2013 it is truly disastrous. Like the catastrophic image this demographic image offers us, this tree of life that was published here on page 15, which shows that the average age in Croats would be 41.7 years. And what's an increase compared to 2001 by 2.4 years. We were under 40 years old, now we're 41.7 years old. About county, let's say worse. Because Lika-Senj County, which has 50,000 and 900 inhabitants, has the oldest age structure in the Republic of Croatia, as someone has already said. For a part of the state or county called the spine of Croatia, the spine of Croatia is truly disastrous. About who ordered it to be divided by Croatia or from those three statistical... pass into two and that plan that was in the HDZ government and its coalition partners to make 8 continental, 5 Slavonian plus Bjelovar-Bilogorska, Karlovačka and Sisak-Moslavina are one region. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If they were one region, then the development index would be such that all these counties would have a far greater possibility of paying for participation in projects than they are now. Therefore, when the development index is calculated according to the average income per capital, then according to the average original income per capital, the average unemployment rate and population movement rate and the proportion of the educated population from 16 to 65 years and other indicators included then you can see very interesting data. But that was the topic of the debate before this point. If I tell you that the average unemployment rate in Slavonian municipalities below 50% of Croatia's development average is 35 to 55%, then you might be surprised. But look at that plate and you'll see. What I am particularly concerned about is that not only the demographics from the National Statistics Institute, but also from our University of Zagreb, and very often they appear, but it comes with a hand in it, and no one is following it much, and that is that this tree of life in 10 years shows a significant difference. And this is that the number of Croatians aged from 0 to 15 is significantly less than it was 10 years ago, let alone in the '50s. And the number of people over the age of 60 has also been increased evenly from the 1950s to 2001. I'd like it here to be a comparison, for example. the tree of the life of the Republic of Kosovo. So you'd see how there's a significant difference in the look of that tree of life as statisticalally put it. I don't know which one of these institutions of the Croatian State, or ministries or the State Statistics Institute, works for example. Average, the amount of average salary in Croatia that already stagnates at 5.5 thousand, which kunas more or less but already here, as far as I know, here may be Mr. Shuker helping me with this couple, 5.6 years at 5.5 thousand average salary in the Republic of Croatia. So I don't know what methods it is and how it comes to this average salary of 5.5 thousand kuna, and maybe it would be good if that average salary were indicated or distributed according to e.g. activities, according to, let's say in health care, in school, etc. So we might see a lot more, so it's a methodology for making that amount of average salary in the Republic of Croatia. I know that the Institute of Statistics with its methodology, with its entry into the European Union, has also entered the Eurostat community then we have here mentioned Intrastat, Extrastat etc.. As much as we get into all this together when we talk about agriculture, we stay for example. We remain here and agriculture in the fact that the import into the Republic of Croatia turns it around in whatever way you want both on Intrastat and on Extrastat data 2 billion euros or 15 billion kuna. The consolidated debt of the state on page 22 can also be seen as how to say rapidly growing. Although the latest in this 2012 report is also 183 billion and 273 million kuna. They say 200 billion kunas or over 68% of GDP have already passed. All in all, we can view this report as part of the inclusion of the State Statistics and Methods Institute, methodology, implementation plan for implementation as something that I am going to say my way, drawn during those two documents, therefore, the Implementing Plan of Activity, statistical activities for 2013 plus that implementation plan in 2013 and 2017. But I remain to say in my heart and soul that bitterness that this data is, here are a little modest days here in a few segments, which I will not tell myself personally that scares but really leaves one bitterness where we go and what statistics will be, mainly demographic statistics when it comes out in 2021 when we will probably be, I don't want to predict but the average age of 45 and more years and some other economic data that we've been talking about here. Here we also have a report and a number of user requests for statistical areas since 2011d on 2013 and says that the most people were also interested in the media for the start of the population, and then for the exchange of goods with abroad, wages, etc. I see here there is also about employment, but what I particularly care about and that is what I will ask either by email or by written question whether there is a State Statistics and Data Service on those who left Croatia, as they said in '65. the year on temporary work abroad, and in fact it was a permanent departure from Croatia, as it is now done and not only in Germany as it was in the case of '65. years ago than a large number of people who moved to overseas countries. It's hard to say if we're going to be or against him for this report, we might best be abstentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81257	Melita Mulic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81258	Thank you, Vice President. I decided to replicate my colleagues, Grubisic, although all previous speakers in at least one segment deserved a replica, and on the same topic because my colleague Grubisic is mostly talking about migration, demographic statistics, emigration, immigration, data that we do not have. I don't think any of the colleagues in this House, and fellow Djurovic said that in some replica, he didn't quite understand what this report was for. The report has 50 pages, all of these data or at least most of them can be found in specialized, thematic publications or sections of the official website of the National Statistics Office. If we had everything that my colleague Schuker asked for in these 50 pages or what his colleague Grubisic was looking for, then you'd have one 300-page riot paper and I don't really know what degree of competence we'd all be discussing together. This was about GDP, i.e. GDP and tourism revenues as its share, and they were numbers 16% to 27%, and tourism science itself cannot agree on how, in any way, it is possible to manage the revenues from tourism, whether they are overnights, whether they are arrivals, whether they are services, whether they are transport or whether they are all other production services used in tourism. So I think this debate has clearly shown that this is an ideal debate to manipulate statistical data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81259	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81260	There's a commercial where a man says "you talk to me," and so do you, I don't know who you're discussing, actually with Mrs. Vice President of the Parliament or with me because you didn't manifest yourself to any of the things I said. And besides, which you would like to discuss to hide perhaps a demographic image and a demographic tree of Croatia, to hide what you are doing planically and systematically to destroy Croatia. Is this your goal to the Kukuriku coalition, to get as many people out of Croatia as possible, is that your goal? That's what the Deputy Prime Minister said, that the goal is for Croats to go abroad to look for work. This is the goal of joining the European Union. Well, we don't have to hide it, so let's show it statistically. That's what I'm talking about, and you guys have your ideas, that's your business.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81261	And Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81262	Thank you. You talked about the amount of average salary shown statistically in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but it is interesting that there is no display of the average net salary paid in the Republic of Croatia. This would be very interesting if the State Institute showed an average wage paid in the Republic of Croatia, not the sum of 3 and a half and 200 salaries, and the average value of the net salary paid. Where is the median, where it is actually, which is the value of the most frequently paid salaries in the Republic of Croatia. That would be interesting information to see simply what it looks like actually in practice, in those amounts that are actually paid to people as wages. And secondly, when you were talking about the demographic tree, they have two shows there... why am I saying he's not good? You can't show demographic trees in 10 years apart. Well, of course nothing dramatic can happen on that demographic tree in 10 years, but even in such a short statisticalally displayed period, there is a significant growth of the older population, for example. When it comes to the demographic tree, there's a whole series of legalitys attached to it. So for example, the triangle, the most common triangle, is the demographic tree of a young population. There is a demographic tree ideal population, it's like a rhombus and there are more and more longer trees like this where you no longer have in the middle that thickening that shows actually one nation or state or dying space. Now these are our pictures. But if we want to show it, then whoever shows it has to show it in '71, '91, 2011, not a 10-year period. Don't even show it because you didn't give statistics, statistically credible data. And if there's 550 employees behind you, then you'd have to know what you're doing and don't do what you shouldn't do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81263	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81264	Thank you very much, colleague Djurovic. Yeah, the medium would be what would actually be the medium of these salaries, would be a real picture and a real relationship. Like what? Place from, minimum is 2800 to 4. How many people receive such a salary? And from four to six. How many people have in common with that salary? Well, from 6 to 10 and so on. And even the tax is calculated by that, the tax on pay is calculated by that. But here, we don't have that kind of information. We just have this five-and-a-half-thousand piece of information that's already standing, and I think seven years five-and-a-half thousand stands. There's a little bit of a ten, twenty kuna up there somewhere, down there. But what I was going to say when we talk about a tree of life that looks like a tower of baroque church here in Croatia, or so it seems to you that is sad unfortunately. Not the tower of the church, but this look of that curve and chart. But I have to say that it does say here on page 15 that the proportion of the population from 0-14 in 2011 is 15%, and that share in 1953 was 27% and almost twice as much. That's what's sad and we have to count it. So who will make both colleagues Mulić and you and us and all of us who are already close to 60 pensions. Who will work for our pensions if there are no young people? That's problematic. But we let go, because now we're in Europe, you're chasing, all of us, 400 doctors have gone to Europe. 400 doctors went to Europe, but no one's worried about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81265	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81266	Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2013. The debate is closed. I am giving the following conclusion in line with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget: "A report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 is hereby adopted". Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed conclusion was accepted by a majority of 76 votes in favour and 16 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81267	And we will also discuss - Amendments and additions to the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency - Confirmation Proposer of amendments and addition of the Statute is the Competition Protection Agency in accordance with Article 26. The law on the protection of competition. You've received the motion for an act. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You received the report at the session, and the amendment and supplementation proposal will explain it to us. Please, colleagues, a little. The proposal will be explained by the President of the Competition Protection Council, Mr Mladen Cerovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81268	Thank you. Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored MPs and MPs. The Agency for the Protection of Competition has sent this Higher House to confirm the amendment and addition of the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency. Amendments and additions were necessary to adapt the work and organisational structure of the agencies to the new legal framework in which the Agency operates. On 1 July 2013, a new Law amending and supplementing the Competition Protection Act entered into force, and a new State Aid Act came into force in April this year. The draft Law on the Protection of Competition makes the agencies responsible for the parallel application of Articles 101 and 102 following the accession of the EU with the application of Croatian rules on the protection of competition. Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. In addition, it becomes competent to apply Regulation 1/2003 implementing the rules on competition and applying Regulation 139 of 2004 on concentration control. Such parallel jurisdiction is applicable in cases of prohibited agreements and abuse of the ruling position, but not all, but only those having a significant effect on trade between the Republic of Croatia and the Member States of the Union. In addition, the European Commission can now also take action against Croatian entrepreneurs directly in the event that they violate the provisions of Articles 101 and 102 of the Treaties. In addition, the concentrations of Croatian entrepreneurs who have so-called The European dimension must now be registered directly to the European Commission. Of course, those who do not have a European dimension for them are still in charge of the Competition Protection Agency. Such parallel or extended competence also implies the obligation of the Agency to cooperate daily with both the European Commission and other competition protection bodies of other Member States. This cooperation is carried out through ISN, the European Network of Competition Protection Authorities. This cooperation does not just mean a naked exchange, a daily exchange, a daily exchange of information on the actions under way, but it also involves some joint actions. In the event of a request by the European Commission or by a competition protection body, the Agency must carry out so-called ‘the European Commission’. unannounced search by Croatian entrepreneurs. It shall also implement it on behalf of and on behalf of the Commission, or the bodies of another Member State. Therefore, the Statute of the Agency must also be supplemented by a provision of a business secret, i.e. a business secret relating to information which the Agency may disclose to the Commission, or the body in another Member State, in such a case. Another significant change in the legal framework was the adoption of a new Law on State aid in April this year. This law abolishes the authority of the Agency in the field of state aid and fully transfers them to the Ministry of Finance, together with staff, the funds intended for that purpose to the Agency and the equipment. Therefore, due to the profound changes described in the Agency's competence, it is necessary to first comply with the provisions of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Competition Protection Act, with these amendments and additions. Then delete from the Statute all those provisions relating to State aid matter and adapt the final organisational structure of the Agency to the new competences of the Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81269	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. First in line is the HDZ club and colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81270	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. Well, two technical changes are basically ahead of us. One institution, which I must say, has done a very good job in the past years and has made many people behave differently in Croatia, simply realize that money cannot be handled as anyone wills and may not have been enjoyed more times, and now certain changes have happened. Therefore, the first thing that the accession of Croatia to the EU had jurisdiction over the granting and distribution of support to Member States was taken over by the European Commission and the State Aid Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2013, provided that that part of the transactions left by the national authorities in Croatia would be the competent Competition Protection Agency. However, in April of this year, a new State Aid Act came into force, which brought all the powers for state support united in one body. So they went to the Department of Finance's jurisdiction. And by law, all the powers and tasks of the agencies in the area of state aid were abolished. So just remember what was the problem of who was going to file the State Support Report, practically because of the lack of definition of the law, because of the unchanged statute of the state agency we came to a vacuum space and then wanted to file for the ministry, would the agency file? Here's the practical change in this statute explains why it happened then and why it was controversial. So from now on, those reports will be submitted to us by the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, the accession of Croatia to the EU and the adoption of the law amending the Law on the Protection of Competition are the National No. There has been another significant change in the work of the Agency, which, with the competence to apply Croatian rules on competition protection, has also become competent for the parallel application of European legislation, i.e. Articles 101 and 102. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Commission setting out questions relating to the protection of competition between Member States. In view of these two changes, the Agency's competence to amend and supplement its statutes, it is necessary to comply with the provisions of the law amending the Competition Protection Act and, in accordance with the new State Aid Act, to delete certain provisions relating to the areas of State aid. Also, business related to state support is deleted and the Agency's obligation to submit State aid reports to the Croatian Parliament is lifted. Therefore, the new law adopted in April 2014 now has the Ministry of Finance as a body where everything regarding state aid is united. Therefore, due to the adaptation of the change in competence, the organisational structure of the Agency is also changed, and it is apparent from the attached that the organisation is focused on the underlying operations of the Agency while the other functions are constrained at the level of minimum needs for the work of the institution. The Statute has also been supplemented by a provision on a business secret relating to information that the Agency may disclose to the Commission and the competent competition authorities. And I think that this is a very important provision that you may even have failed to highlight, but it clearly defines in principle that if the Croatian Parliament adopts it in this way, the commission commits itself to certain data that it simply cannot give without the approval of a practical classification. The HDZ Club will support the proposed amendments to the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81271	And on behalf of the HNS Club Vice President Milorad Batinic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81272	Thank you, Vice President, President of the Council, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I believe that the debate on these amendments to the statutes that I consider to be a sequence and the adoption of the law amending the Agency Act, and then the Law on Support, and also in the debate we had here in this House, was in some way suggested that both the statutes be corrected and I see that, I believe, the President of the Council read the debate because I see that certain amendments have been made to the Statute itself. By any chance, this law was on the agenda after a report by the agency submitted by June 30th, I believe that the debate on this point might also be going in another direction. However, the HNS Club also as we supported and the Agency Act will support the amendments to this Statute. I'd only have a few maybe my observations on certain articles of the statute. In fact, I like the fact that in Article 1 of the amendment, paragraph 3 for the tasks carried out under its jurisdiction, the agency is responsible for the Croatian Parliament. In fact, in the previous Statute it was written in Article 1(1). There are absolutely all jobs here and there's logic since the Parliament is this body to which the agency in some way, actually fully accounts. What I would especially like to praise is Article 8 where Article 21 changes very well, methodologically acceptablely in very detail, I would even dare to say that it has elements and is defined as systematization of jobs. And that's the part that I was saying at the outset that you were probably reading the debates, and especially in that part, the HNS club talked more about as one that couldn't be an integral part of the law, but here I see that you entered. But I admit I have one dilemma with... If you can track it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, Article 21(1) lists and we have numbers 6 and 7, 8 so we're going back to number 6. Maybe I don't understand it or maybe it's a technical mistake? All right, thanks. [[Aggression: Technical error.]] Here's a clear suggestion of a correction in the purified part. I mean, I don't know if it's methodological, but there's no logical sequence for me. As regards this newspaper, which you have previously mentioned and your colleague Shuker before, it means the application of Articles 101 and 102 here in Article 10 where Article 26(1) of the Agency’s Decision is amended in the National Journal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Does the High Court of Commerce have an obligation to publish their solutions in the National Journal perhaps? High court, excuse me. No, I don't. Have you, perhaps, opposed to the law to be published in the folk newspaper. For the sake of transparency, for the sake of information, because we are also in the mass of things and in the debates, wherever the ministry or body has published the results, polls. It was also in the previous debate of the Law on Special State Care, says everything published on the Internet is not available. So here's a clear suggestion if you consider it possible for further changes, that the results are published in the folk newspaper. Now, so item 3 is completely logical. As far as I'm concerned, I'm saying in general, the statute is a sequence of what we've discussed before and I'm saying if there are certain needs for amendments to the statutes, you might enter this correction if it's in accordance with existing laws. And I repeat and promise, it means in your report on the agency's work that there will be far more debates and perhaps then and through the debate you will see certain adjustments that the statutes should. We'll once again speak support this statute and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81273	Thank you. I am concluding a debate on the amendments and additions to the statutes of the Agency. We will vote on the proposal most likely tomorrow, and tomorrow at 9.30 we will start with a report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2013 and at 12 hours we will vote on the points discussed. Thank you very much. Now let's go cheer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-12-0.u81274	Amendments and additions to the Statute of the Agency for the Protection of Competition-Confirmation. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the decision to confirm the amendments to the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find it unanimous with 92 votes for the proposed decision in the text as it came here.
