ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73857	I would like to thank Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, a brief explanation of the bill. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has also formed working teams to deal with the rapid increase in the deficit of the state budget that was achieved in 2013 and also in the projections in 2014. The government also adopted a series of short-term measures to reduce deficits in the last quarter of 2013. In addition, it also adopted a special programme of state investments for 2014. At one of its last sessions in December 2013, she also adopted programmes for structural changes in health, education, judiciary, state administration and social policy. These are all measures that the Government established during 2013 which resulted in a change in the budget itself for this year. On the other hand, the European Commission has also given its autumn projections on imbalances in the Member States of the European Union, and has particularly addressed those countries that have too many deficits. So also with the 2014 budget. The Republic of Croatia. In its recommendations, the European Commission also considered it necessary to reduce the deficit expressed in the state budget for 2014 and with the recommendations suggested three-year special measures that should be implemented to bring the deficit below 3% of GDP within three years. In its measures, it specifically looked back on 2014 where it made it very clear that some 2.3% of structural changes in the state budget for 2014 were needed and, overall, some 7.5 billion kunas of the necessary reduction in 2014 when we talk about deficits in the Republic of Croatia. All of this was the reason that the government had used all month long in February to prepare proposals for the budget itself so that, as soon as the beginning of the year, it would also target the spending of funds as well as the collection of revenue in the target of reducing the deficits of the state budget. Since the last two years have failed to recover the Croatian economy and in these autumn projections, which the European Commission has also given, we see that the problems in the Croatian economy are significant. The very assessment that state-owned companies have lost their sense of profitable action in the period from 2009 to now, that there is simply a lack of rationality due to too many employees and the unreal spending of companies has made good losses and those who have not been lost have not been turned to the investment cycle. So the assessment is that I am the government-run government's government's government's government's government's state portfolio has accumulated enormous losses which losses have been partly due to the increase in public debt and deficits, as they simply have had structural changes over the last two years, both negative effects on the budget and on debt. Also mentioned are shipbuilding and Croatian Railways and Croatian Airlines, as well as some other companies such as highways that are unable to service their debts. At the same time, through the autumn projections, we also see that the private sector is not sufficiently driven by production and export because it has simply been lost through the crisis since 2009 and the service sector unfortunately has turned to wrong real estate investments, which has caused over-indebted private sector which, due to over-indebtedness, cannot increase domestic demand, and without increasing domestic demand, there is no possibility of economic growth on the domestic market, so the only possible impact on the increase in the social product is just an increase in exports. These are all imbalances identified in these five years of crisis under which the European Commission estimates that economic growth will be problematic in 2014. For this reason, by assessing exactly all the forecasts that were available to us, the Government of the Republic of Croatia estimated that only the reduction of the expenditure side by 7.5 billion would lead to a huge negative impact on economic growth and at that time not to endanger economic growth in 2014 but that it would be impossible to achieve even economic growth in 2015 and it is also questionable in '16. A year. These thoughts have also been confirmed by the IMF mission, which has also estimated that only a reduction on the spending side will significantly endanger economic growth for reasons why the economy remains vulnerable, over-indebted, citizens over-indebted. Therefore, there is no economic growth on the domestic market, and further reductions will compromise any effects if there is an increase and certain exports as this will be insufficient for economic growth. This was the reason why the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to share the burden on the expenditure and on the income side, so we set out to propose how to increase revenues in order to reduce deficits, and yet how to achieve certain effects. And when we look at that 7.5 billion default model, then you'll see that we've estimated somewhere that we can make bigger revenues in 2014 and thus affect the deficit reduction, but we're also going to cut the spending side and we've achieved that reduction with almost 3.9 billion kunas of total reductions. Well, I'd like to stay on the revenue side now, given that you have a health insurance policy from 13% to 15%. When we look at this measure, it will indeed increase the revenues of the state budget of 1.6 billion kuna this year and that these changes will be structural revenue, thus falling into our measures with a reduction in the structural deficit in 2014. When we're watching '15. And '16. The total revenue of 2 billion and 400 million is then expected for the whole year, which is also considered structural income, and therefore the government has opted for the change in health contribution. Because they are simply considered to be a measure which is permanent and a measure which brings more revenue into the state budget. Of course, the government is aware of the negative consequences of the increase in the rate from 13 to 15. The negative consequences are the weakening of the competitive power of the Croatian economy. Therefore, the labour price that falls on the employer's burden this time because it is a contribution paid by the employer will have a negative impact on the competitive power of the economy as we raise labour costs. The very economy that we see as having problems with competitiveness on both the domestic market and exports will simply have increased expenditure. We estimate that this is a measure that has to be taken if we really want to be responsible in part of our fight to reduce deficits. Therefore, all of our expectations are that the Croatian economy with a series of measures the government has taken over the past two years, and we have just taken measures such as reduction of contributions, the abolition of certain parafiscal burdens, the reduction of certain parafiscal burdens, the disbursement of the debt of the economy and through the reprogrammes and the pre-taste settlements simply did not deliver results. We increased our expenditure for EU accession from 1.7 last year, which in 2014 alone on the basis of budget contributions, means 3.8 billion kuna of expenditure. And what should have happened is that there was an increase in exports, an increase in income based on both VAT and profit tax is not realised, so the government is not left with it but to go back to this rather unpleasant measure of increasing from two index points of health contributions, which will directly affect the lower competitiveness of our economy. There have been many stories in the adoption of this law whether we did the right thing when we reduced the contribution, whether it brought health care into the problem etc. so, just so that we may make it very clear how much this was spent on the health system because it simply contributes to only one of the financial instruments with which health is financed. The other is everything we give out of the budget. So I want to make it very clear that 19.8 million kunas were spent for healthcare in 2011, billions of apologies. Thank you. 19.8 billion kuna. This is the total amount of costs given to the health system. You are well aware that in 2012, we had a series of cost reduction measures based on both wages and material expenditures, so in 2012 we allocated 19.2 billion kuna, meaning 600 million less. But in 2012 we started the recovery processes due to the enormous debts from earlier periods and that recovery we already achieved in 2013 by resuscitating the clinical hospital centres so that the health care budget for 2013 with reduced full contributions was 21 billion and 400 million kuna, which means that the larger proportion of the budget was allocated to health care in the name of the recovery. This year for healthcare, 21.2 billion kuna will be allocated. Therefore, the health contribution policy itself has a direct impact on the revenues of the state budget greater or smaller deficit. But when we talk about health policy, the health budget is achieved regardless of whether it is financed by contributions or contributions from the state budget. Therefore, it is evident that the state budget has been more allocated to health care in order to try to settle outstanding debts from the earlier period. We estimate that these 1.6 billion will help us to get closer to the number of 2.3% necessary structural changes to reduce the deficit, while aware that Croatian economies will be less competitive. But at this point, there was no other way out, and that's why we're bringing before you a proposal to increase health contributions from 13 to 15%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73858	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We have a few replicas. Let's get this straight. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73859	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, when we adopted the Republic of Croatia's budget for this year, we knew immediately about this budget deficit, which is about 17 billion kuna in this range. Although we knew back then that the EU we entered on July 1st last year had rules and regulations, directives that speak of the budget not having a deficit greater than 3% clearly over three years, thus reducing it. So it's not even scheduled for this year to be this reduction and now this rebalance it, so it's trying to do a little bit by little within three years. So we knew in advance about this excessive budget deficit, so we did it anyway, or you did it, and your coalition adopted it, which is something that didn't really go too far. Secondly, we have spoken here and several times in connection with this reduction in health insurance contributions from 15% to 13% that it is not a good measure, that health care cannot withstand such a reduction, i.e. contributions are too small without this 2% and that this is actually a seven compared to, seven, eight compared to earlier revenues when the contribution was 15%. Despite these warnings, therefore from the opposition and here we see and now what happens to healthcare with 13%, and over 90% of the funds are from health contributions, for hospitals, for hospitals and the rest of the health system. So I just hope that it's clear to you that these measures that they've produced, which has produced this reduction from 15% to 13%, in the economy it doesn't feel that way, and the health care has gone rapidly into the situation that they're in losses, that we're making master plans, outsourcing, and I don't know what we're not making up to save the health care work. So it's simply a failure and a budget that's been adopted this year. So it immediately appeared after a month, two days but this rate from 15 to 13%. There's nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73860	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73861	So then I would remind you of the 2012 budget, the implementation of the 2012 budget when all these measures cut contributions, the reduction of parafiscal burdens we showed that we could manage the state budget and the deficit from 5% was reduced to 3.5%. Yeah, that was the 2012 budget. The 2013 budget is problematic. Why? Because we went to pay healthcare debts because health care had over 5 billion debts from earlier periods and EU membership of 1.8 billion for membership only, etc. And if we don't talk about solving the shipbuilding, the partial railroad is a public debt increase, so the interest has grown. Therefore, the main problem is that imbalances in the budget were taking place, and the economy did not recover. So you realize one without economic growth, most employees have no solution. And to do that, we need to find a solution for the economy. Surely the solution isn't raising 2% of the rate. And in health care money was not missing, but it simply needs to solve imbalances and the government will come before you with a proposal on how to solve poorly organised health care. When I speak ill of health care, I am talking about financing health care where it is unacceptable that a million 400 thousand employees pay a health contribution for 4 million and 400 thousand citizens of Croatia. This is something that does not exist in Europe, and we are going to the European market to be competitive and healthcare must obviously be financed from some other revenues.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73862	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73863	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, a month ago, a fiscal responsibility law was passed in this House. To be honest, I expected the first law when it came from the Ministry of Finance that you would form a form of how the new fiscal responsibility law applies. Unfortunately, this proposal and the reasoning of this law have been exactly the same as it has been done over the past few years. And this may have been an ideal opportunity because this is not only about increasing health contributions by 2% but also about some other contributions that had to be regulated by this law three months ago and not now. It may have been a convenient opportunity for that particular article 3. I mean, paragraph 5 of the amended Fiscal Responsibility Act to be applied, to explain precisely here the fiscal economic effect of these measures. And in such a way, they would force other legislators to see in a simple way what the law means. So that's one point. And the other thing is, are you now a little aware that various tax charges will not trigger the fallen Croatian economy? And unfortunately, this cannot be initiated in such a way, but other measures must be taken. And this amendment to the law is simply an indicator if not all of us will take action and have a desire for reforms that the economy cannot be run. There's nothing to run with the tax burden. I'm sorry that we were right when we told you this when you passed this law because with this reduction of contributions, none of the businessmen were satisfied. But when we look at the whole package of tax laws that was passed he unfortunately had a negative omen for Croatian businessmen. And this may be a message for the future without structural changes, without everyone wanting to implement certain reforms, the economy in Croatia cannot be launched. And let's stop telling stories that we're going to start an economy with a variety of tax reliefs because no one is investing because someone is going to forgive him for the tax but everyone is investing because he's going to earn more on the basis of the newly created value.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73864	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73865	So as far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, we are seriously preparing for each proposal to be very clear about the effects of the law, not only on the state budget but also on the economy and on all those concerned. It's somewhere and I'd say the activity that started with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's legislation where everyone should develop that system, so we believe that soon, with each of our laws, we will have these arguments. As far as measures are concerned, I would like to say very clearly that for two years the Government has not only taken tax burdens towards the economy but rather a series of additional measures and we see how many public debates there are on these additional measures. The tragedy is that whatever you do in Croatia is not good. It's about a finding. But well, we have at least the satisfaction of making the first time what the Government is doing in the IMF and the European Commission. Therefore, obviously we are too politicised society, and we are overly politically assessing certain government measures, and very little professionally. What is a pleasure for us to still measure over two years shows that they have been far, far beyond what tax changes are and that they are well known in professional circles that part of the government's efforts and value.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73866	Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73867	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Minister. Your exposure without any subjective political or personal thought reminded me of one exposé about the capitulation of the government's overall economic policy. And after your presentation, if you were Prime Minister today, then the final sentence should be us resigning and calling the election. In some details, you said reducing domestic consumption makes economic growth impossible. True, but you've led your policy to a reduction in domestic consumption. Because you went to the tax audit and to the overall revenue side of the budget that led to a total of one state that was an unfavourable framework for investment and for any economic growth and development at all. And that's your problem that you didn't understand. Translated to a health problem you took well at me in some way well raised your voice, let's ease the rhetoric, when I talked about it I said this policy was wrong, I have... Whatever phonogram you want, he's got, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's no good to cut down on health care 3.5 billion without reducing the cost of going to New York to get your money and you're going to have to pay for it. What's going on? It happens that you go to New York and pay for it and call it a recovery. It's not a rescue but funding this normal work of hospitals. And I'm Mr. Minister here, in a way, asking you to tell Marosovic, you were, I'm talking about yourself, there's going to be other MPs, you were right, even though you said that I invite you to a bar and throw myself in the bar and pay for coffee in the cafe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73868	Replica response, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73869	Mr. Representative, you and I will never have the same way of thinking, ever. So then I'm telling you, take the latest report of the monetary fund, which otherwise the bauk was up to you all yesterday, and read what they wrote to you, read it. So not to explain it to you because you and I can't find a common language, take expert literature, take both the IMF literature and the European Commission that vice versa estimates that all the government is doing in discharging the economy is trying to re-produce the economy, hire people, strengthen the export side. Yes, all of these measures we have taken and do not evaluate them negatively as you judge them, therefore the simplest way to make sure that you are on the wrong side and misread read independent experts who in the world are serving everyone except perhaps not you, that's number one. Under number two, Mr. Marasovicu, Shipbuilding for 10 billion kuna is something that has been solved during this government, the irrationality is still in the railway, I will not say how many figures, 20 billion kunas of debt, solving these old problems, thus burdening both our budget and our public debt and the answer is why it has waited 10 years, why this whole period of crisis has been waiting. Also, Mr. Marasovicu, the crisis began in 2008, there were no specific measures until 2011, there were no special measures. No specific measures have been implemented, no. And interesting since 2012, a series of measures, therefore briefly and clearly, that should be active in the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73870	Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73871	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I think it's a good thing that you're talking about the negative consequences, completely honest and open about the negative consequences of this law, or this decision, so you said that this would lead to a deterioration of competitiveness, that all the burden would go on the back of the economy, or the economy. But I don't think it's a good idea to take such measures the moment you said it yourself, just to open new jobs, only investment can start what we're all gathered and concerned about. So, if the economy has new burdens, then it certainly won't happen, and that's why I think that, if this measure was already to be taken, then it should have been brought with the 2014 budget anyway, because what do we have now? You speak in this year we will achieve a billion and 600 million kuna revenue from this measure, and next year 2 billion and 400, that is because I assume we have lost now with everything else and these additional months until the budget rebalance comes into force. However, what is likely to be another consequence, it is legal uncertainty, so regulations, legal frameworks change. So, it's going to be another bad message to potential investors because in just two years, we've only changed this decision twice, so I think we should do everything that once the decision is made, then it's brought first of all to the budget, if it concerns the budget and then it doesn't change afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73872	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73873	I agree with you, Madam Representative, that this is a measure that will have a negative effect and that also changing tax policy throughout the year also creates a certain amount of uncertainty and problems in planning economic operators. But we also need to understand that and we are aware that we have too many deficits in the state budget and we are also aware that the European Commission has assessed that Croatia is an excessive deficit country and that it must have additional measures. Therefore, all of these are data that are known to every economic operator in Croatia, and therefore we probably also have a problem strengthening economic activity, employment and a larger number of employees. Therefore, all of these are instabilitys that follow Croatia. And what is the biggest problem for Croatia is that there has been no economic growth for 6 years, which is again a problem that is not a strong enough domestic market, so any investment in Croatia remains very, very risky for any entrepreneur. Unfortunately, these are facts, they're simple data that we can't avoid. It is our assessment that the less damage will be from raising two index points of health than from further cutting the expenditure side of over 2.5 billion, and that is why the government has chosen to raise taxes rather than cutting that would continue to have a negative effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73874	Thank you, Minister. Do the presidents of the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget wish to submit their reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDZ advocates' club and respected representative Darko Milinovic. Here's my colleague Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73875	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with his associates. Well, we've heard the arguments, but although I've often been a fan of your measures so far, but I have opposed along with the HDZ club when you cut your contribution from 15 to 13%, but I didn't mind you as much as the Minister of Health Rajko Ostojić, who took the head down, and what we were warning about what he did, so he doesn't bring, but he's already led to the collapse of the health system. You were talking about the IMF, you were talking about the European Commission, you were trying to find a way out, why are you now contributing from 13 to 15%? Now don't be offended, I'll quote, I think Alka Vujica is, "Lying, lying, lying to me, you're lying to me best." I will quote, the current government plans a health contribution with a announced two-percent reduction over the next two years and further reduce it, not return it to the old one, which was not even spoken of. In 2013 your statement, Finance Minister Slavko Linic announced today that the government will, watch this next year, reduce its contribution to health insurance by an additional 2% next year after the health contribution has already been reduced from 15% to 13% this spring. When the government's proposal came on this new law, I expected that the health contribution, what you announced and promised, would be reduced to 11% and said as part of measures to further disbursement the labour price and raise the competitiveness of the economy, the government will further reduce the contribution to health care, but this will not mean less money for the health system because this amount will be compensated by the introduction of the property tax, Minister Slavno Linic said. When you talked about the collapse of the health system or when it came to the collapse of the health system, it often waved with skeletons from the closet. And today it may be good to mention once again that these skeletons are not in the closet because if there were, then someone would have to answer for them. If someone had been covering up debts in the health system, someone would have had to answer for it. I have two official documents and you are today, I listened to when I went to Parliament, the vice president of the Greeks, that he said that the skeletons were falling out of the closet and that due to the debt in the health care had created problems. Look at the clean start that you ordered, which clearly says, it's very important to mention, so you can't get away with some of the debts you inherited, the clean start says HZZO debts are worth 4 billion 661 million 973 million kuna. Clean start because you didn't believe the official document that the former government made and which I eventually left with HZZO in handover to the ministry. Now you have an official HZZO report for 2011, the total obligations of the Institute on 31.12.2011. are 4 billion 661 million 973 000 046 kuna, the same figure as your clean start. And when you got those numbers, of course, then she stopped talking to the closet skeletons, and occasionally she appears. Today in this country almost everything falls, we witnessed, yesterday or yesterday, a new report by the Statistical Institute on GDP's decline, a decline in industrial production, a drop in exports, a fall in personal consumption, a fall in investment, but unfortunately not less important for mentioning and falling out of optimism. Ascending in this country is only unemployment, dissatisfaction, and that's a good point. The tension we must take very seriously, today in the political life of the Republic of Croatia. Today, the political situation and the situation among citizens are tense, you can feel it, you can cut it like cheese. In order not only for that to be the way up, you've made sure you've now raised your contribution from 13% to 15%, so further presses, not citizens this time, but the economic sector. And in all these circumstances, you have shown once more incoordination within the government, which is a devastating fact for the Croatian public, for Croatian citizens. In these circumstances, Prime Minister Milanovic goes to Australia for two weeks, I welcome this, I will defend him, he has gone to Australia for two weeks, he has agreed on a visit, it is in the description of the work of the prime minister, left the first Deputy Prime Minister to lead the government, to run the executive power, to be the first man of the state in that period, but she has also gone to Chile, which is what dear friends say about the incoordination within the government. Well, if the Prime Minister's gone in this situation, then whoever's replacing him can't leave. And why is he going? Because there's no coordination. The Prime Minister could and should have said, I'm going on a two-week official trip, we're hoping it'll lead to some kind of investment from there. If it brings any investment, then we will welcome all this way, but we heard yesterday and Minister Kotromanovic saying, I cannot expect any progress from this pleasant conversation in the cooperation of Australia and Croatia, in terms of military co-operation. A pleasant conversation could have taken place on the phone. But to remain abstention during the assessment of Minister Milanovic's visit to Australia, we expect him to agree on some co-operation in the financial sense of the word and that when the citizens come to hear what the minister has agreed. However, when you reduced your contribution, we warned you. You do not need an extraction now on the European Commission and that because of them and the excessive deficit, you are now increasing the contribution from 13% to 15%. We're all not just from the HDZ Club, Labourists, all the opposition I've been counting on now, we've all warned you that's not good. Why don't you tell the truth? That's why the health care has created over the past 2.5 years, now listen well, and you deny me official data if that's not true, 5 billion new debts. You've rescheduled the health system with nearly 5 billion kuna. If you hadn't done that, today the debt in the health system would have been incredible 15, 16 million kuna, and he is today and it must be heard and that the Croatian public must know, he is today a greater debt in the Croatian health system than when you took over power from HDZ and coalition partners. You're Mr. Minister and your government that you're sitting in when we said we're against a reduction in contributions, you were saying we're gonna compensate for that by increasing VAT. So why is it that today's increase in contributions going 15% up, why isn't there going to be a reduction in VAT by 2%? When we warned you that the increase in VAT would lead to an increase in prices, and it has led to a decrease in the wage capacity of the population, and it has led to a decrease in wage power, and it has led to a decrease in consumption, and a decline in consumption leads to lower budgeting, and it has led to, and personal consumption of the citizens of the Republic affects both economic growth and GDP, and it keeps falling. And here we have also warned you that this VAT increase measure is why the decline in health care contribution by 13% will not lead to any effects, the opposite will lead to what we have in Croatia today, it is indifference, it is a loss of optimism, it is economic depression. By reducing your contribution, you actually killed two flies, one blow from two flies. It's in the sports sense of the word well, but by reducing the contribution you killed two flies in a way that in health care over the past two years you've actually stopped investment. By 2011 there have been about a billion kuna investments in the health system in the last two years of no significant investment, if we exclude the purchase of 30 ECMO appliances that are unnecessary to Croatia from several million kunas, and we will say five European countries together there are no 30 ECMO appliances. It's the only tangible investment in the health system today. By 2011 billion kuna on an annual scale, so you abolished with this tax policy and reduced the contribution to health two billion kuna investments in health care, which of course affected the economic downturn and the decline of investment in the health system. Don't say that for the last two years, I think you know that, too, in the health system and in school, 2.5 new people are employed. Nobody mentions that. Don't say you've rescheduled the health system with the intention of reducing payment deadlines to 60 days. Now let's all check together, today's payment deadlines in the healthcare system are incomparably higher than in 2011. Not to say that this is how you caused the biggest strike in the Croatian health system so far. But I welcome one excellent decision, and perhaps even a politically good decision by the unions that have frozen the strike is that they have not frozen a strike for these waiting lists that the health minister himself says are 3 to 4 times bigger, that's not 30%, 40% that's 300 to 400% higher. The trade unions froze the strike and drove the government's blade towards the unions that the waiting lists were extended due to the strike. And that's why it's good that the union froze the strike to see that the wrong policy in the health system has led to the collapse of the health system. Today, 30% of hospitals have no option or payouts, let alone costs and material expenses. Today, the waiting lists for the 590 days of my people were boasting about the reduction for a year and a half, for a colonoscopy of 324 days, for an ultrasound of 370 days, for a hip surgery of 580 days, for a year and 7 months, for the ultrasound of the breasts, and we read the other day that the growth of cancer in women is unfortunately increasing, and on the ultrasound of the breast of the dear lady, ladies, girls, you have to wait 426 days. Today, because of this tax policy aimed at the health system every day, the waiting list increases, watch this data, for 600,000 people. Today, the new 600 thousand patients will wait for the new 600 thousand patients to wait for the health system. The debts were therefore doubled, only I was afraid of some government amendment so that this health contribution would not be paid retroactively by that dividend tax that was lifted by the Constitutional Court. It's just that it's still missing that the contribution to the economy must now be retroactively paid for two years, I don't know you cut the contribution in a way let's cut that two years and we'll see what happened. And that's another thing besides not to mention that everything was lifted by the Constitutional Court which laws, the Law on VAT on newspapers, parts of the health education curricula, the Law on Dubrovnik Walls, a working obligation, a shameful work obligation for doctors you've introduced with the 2006 law that hasn't existed for six years and that I don't keep counting. So all in some way the absence of actually strategy, visions, I speak now for the health system has led to the collapse of the health system and is no longer a possible collapse but the health system is now collapsing. And that's what Goluž's testimony is about, the president of this Association of Hospital Doctors received a notice before he was fired because he dared to talk about it. Imagine that, so what time we live in. And in the end, it's good that the prime minister is a message to the Croats in Australia, we know that you love your country. And it's good that the Prime Minister is in Australia. And don't meet him there with protests because you can piss him off and he'll be back in Croatia sooner. But as soon as he returns to Croatia, it is likely that the government will bring back some kind of law that goes to the heart of the patients, at the heart of the standard of living in the Republic of Croatia. Well dear Croats from Australia don't force him out of Australia, it's good for Croatia, for your country to be there as long as it doesn't bring these narcissistic measures, nada laws with which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and it is visible are absolutely unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73876	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Now we've got 10 replicas, so we'll take it slow. The first replica and respected representative Igor Radjanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73877	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, you're done with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Milinovic, who does his job, it would be good for the president of your party to do his job and come here to the Parliament sometime. And it's a good thing that the system worked, given how irresponsible you were talking and throwing numbers around here, I'm afraid you've also acted irresponsiblely as the last minister. I simply can't believe that you, let me understand some other colleagues, but that you repeat this thousand times a lied, that the reduction of health contributions from 15 to 13 has reduced the health budget is simply not true, I can't believe that you understand that. And if you understand, I can't believe you're saying that because it's simply not true. In 2012, the government of Zoran Milanovic and Minister Slavko Linic reduced the budget, for the first time reduced the expenditure side of Croatia's budget for the first time in history has reduced the deficit by 5 billion kuna. The deficit, the main problem of the deficit last year and this year is the recovery of debts in health care, the recovery of debts in healthcare of over 5 billion that were created in your time and due to the payment of old debts. ... Croatian hospitals are expected and I have to admit quite a long time and I hope and the announcement was Mr Linic if I listened well to him that he was already in public debate for 7 days and then here and before the Croatian Assembly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would have been happier if he had come sooner with pensions, with public debt, health care is the third stone that actually makes fiscal consolidation of the Croatian budget more difficult and therefore the economy. I expect that when the debate comes the final master's plan of hospitals here before us will be far more constructive than the HDZ Club and you yourself if you speak for that club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73878	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73879	Comrade Radjenović, we can check the data, today the deadlines for healthcare are higher, longer if you will than in 2011 at the end of our term of office. If you mention the master plan, well, I forgot it in the debate on behalf of the Club to mention, the master plan this government paid, it's very interesting data, paid 200 thousand euros, unnecessary, absolutely unnecessary because all that information the Croatian Health Insurance Institute has in its drawer and that's what the former health administration has left in the legacy of Minister Rajko Ostojić. But this is very important, this master plan works by a French company. And you know who works for that French company, that master plan? For this French company, the master plan is done by consultants from Serbia. But if you don't get me wrong, it doesn't matter that they're from Serbia, it doesn't matter that they're from Serbia, it's not that they're from Serbia, it's not that they're from Serbia, it's that I'm asking for it to be checked, but it's important that I'm convinced that Serbian consultants are not smarter than Croatians and that there are a sufficient number of smart, reasonable people in Croatia who could only make that master plan into a document and they had all the data in the Croatian Health Insurance Office. I apologize if that's not true. But they say the French company is actually a Serbian company that works out a master plan for Croatian hospitals. Do we in Croatia not have experts, Croatian experts who can do this? Well, I guarantee you I can have experts like that. And that we don't need them, not from Serbia, we don't need them from America, Germany, Russia, I don't know where, France, we have enough numbers and we have shown that we have high-quality experts in Croatia and we don't respect them because our master plan is doing someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73880	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73881	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Milinovic, so it would be good if someone in this House finally told him how long he owed the health care. So here it's obvious that the Clean Start, which the government paid several million kunas, is consistent with that report left by the former government. Last year, when the budget rebalance was made in 6 months, it was said that those 3 billion that are being secured for health care recovery that it was definitely patching holes, that it was over. In the current budget rebalancing, we have an additional 2 billion and 700 or so. However, it is very interestingly cut into two items, one billion, and one more thing is for the 2013 debt and 300 is for previous years' debts. So if last year with those 3 billion and something else we settled the debts from previous years then it is evident that this debt from 2013 and the 2012 debt did not pay. But the main problem is that we can't get accurate data and someone keeps telling us that 7dcl can fit a liter. So we with some identical budget without health reform, and that budget from the previous years has created minuses, we haven't done anything in years, and we're saying that with the same money, we're going to be able to do something. However, you have touched one more thing and that is the structure of the health budget. It would be very interesting to compare him, so we'll see. And it's exactly the same story with the education ministry's budget, that all the investments in health care and education are practically gone and it's no wonder that one elementary school in Velika Gorica has been waiting two years to end and only a few million kunas are missing. It's like that in a lot of hospitals, especially county hospitals. Therefore, it would be time for me to hope when the budget is rebalanced when there is an explanation of the budget that finally someone will tell us how long the health care was on 31.12.2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73882	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73883	My colleague Shuker, I remember one of our discussions, I was Minister of Health, you were Minister of Finance and you told me in 2008, at the end of 2008, we're going to go to the health system, almost a billion kuna was and says these are the last money from the state budget for the rehabilitation of the health system, which, of course, was the trigger for reforms. '09, '10. And '11. We kept the debt under control and did not create new obligations, which means that the health system worked well. How much debt in the health system today is of interest to everyone. I know about it. Today, the debt in the health system is over 10 billion kuna. Look at this data, over 10 billion kuna is now a debt in the health system and this is the fact that you mentioned that every reform that has been initiated during our government that such a situation in the health system has continued would not be. But there's another posh move from this government, remember the extra insurance policy. We're going to say conditionally richer burdened with an additional insurance policy of 130 kuna. Now you've cut your contribution from 15 to 13% and watch out now, look, you've charged the rich. The extra insurance policy is for the rich conditionally, falling from 130 to 70 kuna, 50%. Who have you burdened, the Social Democrats whom they have burdened? Those millions of people who had a health insurance policy for 60 kuna, they have it for 70 kuna today. Well, here we should look for new sources of income and on additional insurance policies and look for new items to ensure, in fact, the vital means needed for the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73884	Honorable representative Kresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73885	Thank you very much. While you were engaged in your debate, you said this was a new press for businesses and employers. In fact, I would agree partly with you, not entirely, because we know that especially foreign companies, but also one good part of our employers assesses the risks of business in the Republic of Croatia and when they did those assessments, most of them contracted gross wages. So this press is going directly to our citizens, to our employees, and will certainly reflect on the consumer basket. A good part of the contract is about to reflect not on employers but on employees in individual systems. Therefore, the risk of operating precisely by a foreign company and a good part of the domestic and risk assessment work and they worked so that they negotiated gross wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73886	Replica response, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73887	That's one of my colleague Bubalo's answers why there's no investment I wanted to say in the health system, they're gone at all. Remember the dividend tax, the dividend tax, and the law said the following. The dividend tax will pay retroactively, back 10 years. I agree with you that all those who thought to invest in Croatia have calculated 13% of the contributions and have done some kind of profit on that calculation, but this government happens again. Today our contribution is from 13% to 15%, but God knows if this is the ultimate goal because they accuse the businessmen, they failed and did not take advantage of the reduction in contributions from 15% to 13%. We were just expecting, now that you haven't used it, well you haven't done it, we won't... now you're going to 20% because you need to be punished because you haven't used it from 15 to 13% and that's what I said, the absence of every strategy. This is the most devastating for Croatia and for Croatian health care in this case. The absence of any strategy or any vision. They said let's cut the contribution by 2% so we'll see what happens, here's what happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73888	Dear Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73889	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, in your debate, I can only agree with one sentence or conclusion in which time we live. In what time do we live to have you argue with such ease whether you have left 4 or 5 billion and agree and that is normal to you, non-chalant. 4 billion is, we left 4 billion, it's not 5, it's determined a clean start. What we're talking about, honey. And then you give us lessons, classic, usual. Which is your party's irrational policy to teach us lessons, you're constantly accepting the debts that have remained, deficits and these problems which, difficult are the problems that the government is fighting and solving, and now it's perfectly normal to discuss non-chalantly. So let's look at the hospital's 2011 audits, the disaster that's left over. And it's all understandable to me, the success or failure of the policy at the time, but to share today's lessons and nonchalantly to define that it's not 5 but 4, that's what I really have to say in which time we're still living.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73890	Replica response, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73891	I live in real time and I said, so I actually commended you, you didn't hear when I praised you, remember when you were against building the Peljega Bridge so we warned, it's a good project, it's a project of national interest and after a year you changed your mind and now it's a project of national interest for you. We come slowly to consensus. Two years ago, a little less than two years ago we said we shouldn't cut contributions to 13% that's health care for two years five, almost five billion kunas less and it'll lead to a collapse of the health system. Are you saying with what ease? So in the term of last government debt in the health system has been reduced by two billion kuna. But why did I mention it? That's why for the insinuation, not to tell a lie about the covert debts in the health system. I'm talking here now. If someone was covering up debts in the health system, he must be somewhere else today, and he must answer for it. It's a crime to cover up debts in the health system. And you were getting away with the lack of a health system development strategy. Not you personally, but the minister and the government because of the lack of development, i.e. the vision of the development of the health system. You've always looked back on some debts that were covered up. And then he came, which is why I mentioned "Clean Start" which the former government said was right because it left official documents that were correct and we realized together that the total debt was 4 billion and 600. And you know how big it is today? Over 10 billion. So what do you think of the ease you are working with and what ease you are in the ruling coalition when you talk about health care and do not mention that there are various threats on the scene of the collapse of the health system and, as I mentioned, Mr Goluž, president of the Croatian Hospital Association.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73892	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73893	Thank you very much. Comrade Milinović, you were talking about health debts7 and the collapse of health care. It's true, how you listed all these terms to say breast ultrasound examinations, waiting lists for hip surgery, heart ultrasound, etc. and by the way, the only investment is those appliances, those artificial lungs we now have in Croatia as much as Sweden, Finland and England combined. So these three countries have as many appliances as Croatia. Very interesting. Slovenia has only one and that in Ljubljana. I also remember your debate on the Committee when we pointed out that for a contribution, additional insurance is not reduced to those 130 kuna because you said I personally can pay those who have such a salary, why you're reducing everything to 70. So it's an interesting topic of the social-democratic measure that has raised the poorest, so she's raised the extra amount for extra insurance by 10 kuna, from 60 to 70, and those who can pay down from 130 to 70 kuna. And it's really unclear where such perseverance is from and from where the resistance of Minister Ostojić, for which I personally asked Mr. Prime Minister to resign, because indeed the results in health care that Minister Linic must cover with constant coverage of the losses he inflicts, which are in health care, and then this master plan that works with Serbs French or French, Serbs do not know who does this, which is 200 thousand euros. So, our experts can't make a master plan and I won't say I don't understand what it is, but I guess there's also a Croatian name for that master plan, is it hospital reorganization or whatever you want. We can talk like that. So, a lot of it's right out of yours and my health resistor where you really see the spilling from hollow to blank.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73894	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73895	Well, we all warned that on the parent board, but there were no ears of those we needed. And then, of course, when the water came to the throat, there was a good suggestion or a good suggestion from the opposition it was. You are witnesses on the board that we kindly and truly open-heartedly suggested the minister to rebel, us as colleagues. We, as colleagues, told him two things. Minister of Health, you can't let the Minister of Finance say doctors are stealing the state budget. Remember when I said that? Well, that someone in my government said when I was, so I don't know what to do. I can't stop it, that doctors steal the state budget, doctors who are feathered together with nurses and technicians of Croatian health care and in European and global proportions. The absence is every investment, of course, except what we mentioned in these 30 ECMO devices, and 5, 5 or 6 European countries all do not have 30 of these ECMO devices together. Once again, it is the absence of any vision of the development of the health system. But Rajko Ostojic was dealing with something else at the time. First he went to the mayor, and the minister's position was as a spare position. And that's not good. Ministerial position requires a man, I was a minister, 24 hours a day requires you there. When I say there, it's in the health care system. Later, there were internal elections, so Bernardic and I tried to bring down the president of Milanovic's party. So he was involved in more politics, and I'll say less, I won't say he didn't do much health care, but that little health care thing would be better if it wasn't for that either.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73896	Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73897	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Milinovic, there are indeed many objective problems this government is dealing with. I think Minister Linic said a very important sentence. I got a good cut, and that's actually logic. 1.4 million hard employees can finance 4 and a half million users of the health system under difficult conditions. It's simple, it's a fact, we can't get away from it. I am, I come from one of the counties and that's a number of counties where the number of pensioners is higher than the number of employees and these are real problems. I would continue on to my colleague, Radjenovic, when he said, I think the minister pointed out that in no way these 15, a reduction of 15% to 13% is not the cause of how you say the collapse of the health system. This measure was an incentive for the economy. It failed to achieve those results that were imagined, but it was certainly an incentive for the economy to save jobs with these funds if they could not open a new one. The health collapse we see first of all is that reforms are necessary. You're talking about master plan here, the truth again, you're saying it with some kind of ease. Carefully, when making plans, a certain objectivity must be respected. I'm not going to go into whether our experts would be more objective than foreign ones. I agree there are experts with us, but look at the example and the mayor from my county who's at the beginning, you don't see at all... a plan with such hatred, with such intolerance attacked not only by the minister but by our parliamentary representatives and MPs from the area as if he knew everything, he knows everything to solve the reform of the system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm telling you this because whatever the master's plan is, someone won't like it, which is also natural, but it's unacceptable for people to communicate in this way and in this way insult those who think differently. As far as investment is concerned, neither did you mention the credit obligations that followed those investments. We now have a case to pay the loans. That's what someone has to pay for. Are they visible in this debt in health care? I don't know, but I'm sure there's one part of the funding you need... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73898	Thank you very much. A new replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Jerolimov. ... And you didn't, you didn't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I watched it all the time. I was watching, it's over. A colleague of Milinović's. A little concentration when you raise the plate, okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73899	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73900	Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73901	Thank you. I agree that this government is in a lot of trouble and I agree that both the position and the opposition would have to find some common national, I absolutely agree. Well, I've been doing a few interviews where I've been kind of calling for a deal in a difficult situation. When was the deal actually generalized we could say? During the Homeland War when we were creating a Croatian state. Well, even today, the state is in some way, we're not gonna lose it, but it's kind of in crisis. It would be good, I agree with you, and that the government is in big trouble but there is incoordination and that incoordination kills. Now you're talking about cost cuts, and we only have 2500 new employees in the health system and education. And you can see that from the budget because the material expenditures have been increased. Well, look at HZZO's decision now. Who are the main people in the health system? I mean, the main one is the health system policy. Minister and Director of HZZO. So you did see the other day HZZO's data made a decision on a new regulation on the pricing of medicines where it limited the margin to 1%. And today, the minister repeals that rule and returns the margin to 8.5%. Well, that's the incoordination of my people who kill the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who say that this government is not going to say incompetent but uncoordinated. Milanovic goes to Australia and leaves the government with the first Deputy Prime Minister, she goes to Chile. Well, Milanovic has to slap, so at the end of the day with his hand on the table, when I'm out there, there's no one else going out. Greekic was also gone, and Minister Linic was in Brussels, but it must be known who is the boss in the house. And in this government, you don't know who the boss is. We have three governments, the SDP government, the HNS government, occasionally the IDS government, and HSU sometimes report like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73902	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Ante Jerolimov, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73903	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Milinović, here's what you've done is you've made a good score of health care and you've backed them with certain documents and numbers and you've determined that the moves of this government are all falling, which is not quite so. Because I'm going to point you up, as you said, health pay deadlines, unemployment growth, public debt growth, here's the growth and contribution to pension insurance, growth and VAT. Namely, when this government raised VAT from 23% to 25% two years ago, it justified that the money would be returned to the system from 15% to 13% through a reduction in the health contribution. There was talk of some kind of effect plus in the economy and stuff, right? And today we see that this effect plus turned into a thick effect minus. And not to say everything they've found out by making this decision by the government two years ago in the state of health. But we can determine that we did well. Why? Because 21 Croatian employers are promised a 9% reduction in contributions, and then we know where the plan is now, and we know where health care would be if all of this were to happen. And please, don't be ashamed of them not to go outside. It's better if everyone went outside and didn't do anything else, we'd have less damage to the Republic of Croatia and all its citizens, and if the Minister of Finance were out there today, there wouldn't be a law like this here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73904	Replica response, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73905	A colleague of Jerolimov has indeed taken over some 310 thousand unemployed, today there are nearly 400 thousand. And they said by reducing the contribution we'll stop it, the economy will start, the investments will start. So none of this proved true that they entered this adventure unprepared without any analysis that could lead to it. And now that we've mentioned leaving, you've mentioned going out as you would say outka down there, there Milanovic, the Croats in Sydney, accuse that because of him they had to leave the Croatian homeland, because of the policy that he... Okay, can I finish? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Oh, no, I don't want to talk about partisans. My colleague Cain, if that bothers you, I don't want to talk about partisans.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73906	Your colleague Darko Milinović will continue to respond to the replica if you can, with a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73907	I'm defending him. No one is in Australia today because of Zoran Milanovic's policy. It's because of the titoistic policy, that's why. But what needs to be noted young people are going for Milanovic today, which should be accused of it. 300 doctors went out because of a reduced contribution, due to the collapse of the health system, because of sentences such as: "Doctors steal the state budget." I won't get tired of talking about it, that's not true! Because fellow doctors gave great pain not only today but in the Homeland War and the State. Croatian healthcare is among the 3.4 best in Europe. That's why Milanovic is guilty, that we have 400 requests from the doctor to go out of Croatia. And that's why dear Croats in Australia didn't blame Milanovic for your grandfathers running there, it's someone else's fault, and there's Milanovic right. It is his fault that young people are leaving now and that now 300 doctors are out of Croatia and running from Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73908	Honorable representative Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73909	Dear fellow Milinovic, he will not be able to tell us that we are generals after the battle because when they passed the Law that reduced the health contributions by two index points, read the minutes from that session, then there was about a sentence they said from the Club of Labour, we will burn ourselves in Ban Jelačić's market, heard by Minister Linic if the reduction of the health contribution opens to a job. We offered to be one palace because we knew it wasn't going to be, we knew the structure of the economy, we knew that there was no analysis because no one gave us the logic that this money would spill into opening jobs. You were saying then, what we were saying was pure pulsism, it was pulsism, this isn't what they're doing today. You said and more speakers mentioned Master plan not to understand what it is, Master plan is the main plan, Master chef, chef kitchen, chief chef kitchen, but this kitchen is the kitchen of bad chefs who don't know what they're cooking. If the plan was to reduce 2%, relieve the economy then it was necessary to say how people would be employed and said it would increase despite this quality of health, that waiting lists would be reduced and that healthcare would be more effective. However, what has now happened is not employed, unemployed almost 400 thousand, means no job, just increased jobs, the Master's plan is almost before he stepped on his feet. The Master Plan is a flossule of the health minister who actually deceives the people because Master Plan doesn't say anything 8 like his reform doesn't say anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73910	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73911	Well, look, I really agree with you, and I've been reading the stenograms from the session, and I know what we've been saying, both you and me and my colleague Lesar and everyone in HDZ, HDSSB, and it's really been one pulsism to cut the contribution by 15, with 13% again without any analysis, and today it's proved fatal for Croatian healthcare. Today in Croatian health care, unfortunately because of another episode, because of another one I don't know how to say the adventures of introducing shift work into the health system was smaller..., so here I am, my example, so I've operated every week at Gospić hospital since my shift work was introduced, not that I won't but I can't because you can't operate, there are four gynecologists, one morning, one night, one night, one day, how you're going to operate. And now they've said it too, let's introduce it to shift work, and we'll see what happens. So they every little bit, little bit, let's do this, and we'll see what happens, so every time and so let's see what happens, there's a disaster, and then we'll have to, then let's go back to the way things were. Not only did the reduction in contributions not help the economy but we have almost 400 thousand unemployed, 80-90 thousand more unemployed than in 2012 and not to mention the real figure is around 450 unemployed and about 80 thousand of them are not getting paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73912	Dear Representative Marijan Skvarić Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73913	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear fellow, your debate was so strongly inspired that you were then and in this inspiration and you began to share lessons, let's say the prime minister and vice presidents of the government with a statement that you have repeated several times that the uncoordinated activity of the state services is going on official visits and that they are guilty of all the dubiosiss that now have health rather than dealing with certain other things, but don't be afraid, this non-coordinated activity will certainly contribute to many good news and all segments of international bilateral co-operation, which should have been co-ordinated activity of the state service and then the prime minister goes to prison after all these dubiosiss that they have done in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73914	Replica response, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73915	You're saying my argument was inspired, and what am I going to do? Thank you very much. I wasn't the one who gave the lessons, I was the one who gave my opinion. Well, it's not a lesson, but I think the entire Croatian public sees it, if the prime minister goes and leaves the house for safekeeping, so he can't leave the house for safekeeping, too, I don't know, in Chile. Because it's not a lesson. Well, I think deep down, and you think so, you can't say that, I can. I may have been in your position once, but I think it burdens me, simply that it burdens both the morals in Croatia and the optimism that everyone should have. I mentioned again the latest example of the drug regulation. Today, a rule was passed, tomorrow Health Minister Rajko Ostojic annuls that rule. Well, that's, I've said a few examples of evidence of non-coordination. So here's the contribution will be reduced and it'll be replaced by an increase in VAT. So if we raise our contribution today then we cut the VAT, that would be an impact, that would have an impact, that would have reduced the prices, increased the wage power, increased personal consumption, increased the charge in the budget. But, therefore, only a new tax is raised in terms of health insurance contributions and the latter remains as it was before. So I didn't teach lessons, I think in a way, it seems to me how most people in the Republic think, but eventually they say that in polls. It's a constant decline in support of this government, so no one happier than me that this government is successful if we got out of the economic crisis, not to mention what was, third, first, ninth or 91st today, I'd be happy to say today whether economic growth could have been, not 3%, but 4%.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73916	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, and for your admission, you're in a trend, half of your forgiveness right away from the confession. Dear Representative Petar Baranovic is a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73917	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Milinović, I had no intention of reporting on this subject, of course, that like other colleagues, I am not happy about the fact that the government has to contribute and I had no intention of generally entering replicas by estimating a day that is for all of you, and there are among you honest people very probably uncomfortable and difficult after yesterday. However, I must tell you that you fascinated me. In fact, today I met you twice, now in the in vivo assembly, and this morning in the papers and you have quite a motive and energy to do away with, to teach lessons. I'm not going to talk about this replica or why this government is in a situation where it has to make contributions really, I'm not going to talk about Tito or the party or the former party secretaries... the youth executives and... the staff runners who carried that same war criminal, I'm just going to refer to one thing. You mentioned Prime Minister Milanovic that it was actually your request to the Croats in Australia to keep him there, not to drive him out of Australia because he could not let God return sooner to Croatia. Zoran Milanovic is a prime minister who has no simple role, has his virtues and weaknesses, doesn't idealize anyone, but my comment is only one. Luck and God for this country if it hadn't come out of... HZD because you are known for designing the country's quality, fair, successful prime ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73918	The reply to the replica, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73919	Well, you're a little wrong. Today's prime minister has just come out of HDZ personnel policy, we all know that. Let's remember where he started working and who brought him there. You told me to call for him not to come back. God forbid he comes back healthy and later. Healthy and later because I think that already by returning the government to the next session will again pass some law that will degrade those who are working hard today, degrade social partners, degrade workers, etc., doctors, nurses medical, technicians, etc., etc. It's not yesterday, I'm not afraid of yesterday because if I was afraid, I wouldn't speak for the club, and I wouldn't be as inspired as you said you were fascinated by my debate and here I am glad that I fascinated you. It's not a hard day for HDZ. In 2001 it was a difficult day, we lost parliamentary elections, lost the president's election and lost our founder and first president of the Croatian state, Dr Franjo Tudjman. In 2001, we had 4.5% of the folklore in all polls and miracles, in 2003 we won parliamentary elections. This united HDZ, gave new strength, and we will win the Euro elections. Now, if you guys from the HNS are going with the SDP, then come on, you'll be able to crawl up the SDP corner and say, here we are. But try to get out on your own, try to get out on your own, and let's see your political strength, and my speech will always be inspired. And when I come to Sibenik, when elections for the EU are parliament and I will speak with the same force because look what the HDZ Government has done...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73920	Thank you. Thank you very much for your announcements. And we're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is the club of Independents, respected representative Ivan Grubisic. He's gone. Damir Cain, part two. Ivan Grubisic loses the right to talk about this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73921	Your Honor, Mr. President, Minister, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. I'm going in a nice order. Yes, given the general government deficit, I quote that it exceeds 3% and 60% of gross domestic product, meaning it was initiated by the European Commission at the end of January 2014 by a corrective excessive deficit procedure. One of the measures now of the government is this which we started talking about today, to increase the overall rate of contributions to health, from 13% to 15%. So what can we also conclude, what comes from this rebalancing? In one sentence, the growth of gross social product will not be in 2014, and I'm afraid it won't even be in 2015. The government's bravest measure, even bravest, was the release of a health contribution from 15% to 13%. How much, under quotes, does this law cost? The assessment of the funds literally states, I quote, that since things are not in line with the projections on which the state budget of the Republic of Croatia was based for 2014 and that the process of amending and supplementing the state budget, etc. means, this year 2014 will provide a billion and 600 million kuna and 2.4 billion kuna in all years to come. But the fact is also that in 2012, the economy only left about 4 billion kuna on that basis. The more normal or greater benefits came from large economic systems, the smaller benefits of this measure were small companies, but it cannot be said that not everyone felt the positive intention of the Government or Parliament behind the law or that reduction of contributions. Did that bring growth? It didn't bring any growth. Will the new burden bring growth? Certainly not. What's the only thing that might be good? Which, by redistributing revenue to the revenue side of the budget next year, excuse me, not next year but this year, Croatia will de facto be in debt for 7 billion kuna than it was intended in that original budget for 2014, so that's only good. Anything else would be clear, and that should be said, impact on employees, above all in the public sector, and perhaps on pensioners. This is what anyone is saying to the public sector with this measure will be spared, and will have to set their backs once again for Croatia to start. Someone's asking themselves how it's going to start if you keep throwing a load at that same economy or economy, that's all. Since the start of the crisis, Croatia has remained, so this is 2008, with no 280 thousand jobs. And where did she lose those jobs? It remained in the clearly real sector, while there was an increase in the number by maybe 20, and perhaps 30,000. And there is Mr. Milinović right when he says that only in health and education during 2013 is additionally employed not 2500 but some 2600 people. So these 20 to 30 thousand people found employment at times when we lost 280 thousand in health care, in school, in local self-government, in public enterprises, in communal services, etc. We have a de facto situation today that no one is looking for a job with a small private person in some small craftsman holding clear Croatia, everyone is looking to get a job in public services where at this time in Croatia if we are looking at local self-government and the state is working somewhere around 350 thousand people, clearly with public enterprises and municipal services. Until it's the other way around, we're all aware, happiness just won't be. Without this law, de facto payments should be de facto cut in the "upgrade", which is the budget users for cca 10%. So I'm going to say one more time, the burden has been transferred to the economy and it should be said directly without any environment and in such or similar way by Mr. Minister. Finally, in the upgrade of 2014 some 100,000 people were more employed than in the country's upgrades in 1990s and local self-government, state, municipal service, etc. At this point, it costs about $15 billion a year, and that's what it's supposed to say. So we need to streamline the upgrade whether it's about ministries, whether it's about local self-government, whether it's about agencies, whether it's about municipal services, whether it's about public enterprises, economic, crafts chambers, whether it's about tourist communities. I have the impression that a maneuver is doing the same thing here, I don't know, I actually know who's behind some of them wanting to replace the current director. Why? Because he won't let them draw money through intellectual services, and I think that "mobing" should stop. It is also necessary to consider reducing parafiscal burdens. The state budget, for example, two years ago, when 2012 or 2013 was not 2012. 119 billion kunas, local self-government, and that year, 22 billion kuna arrived somewhere. The state is milked. Yesterday we witnessed such a verdict going that way, I almost dare say that that verdict seemed to me at some point as if you were writing to yourself HDZ. The SDP has been fined with 5 million kunas due to a delay in handing over that audit report in 24 hours, 5 million kunas, and here someone snuck out I don't know how many tens of millions of kunas and was fined with 5 million kunas. So where is this justice? I mean, it's just that a man can't understand these relationships, but we're going to move on well, so we'll see how far that goes, but I think we could talk about it. All in all, yes, gentlemen, the odds are certainly not good. Mr. Milinovic mentioned the decline in GDP, which is true, the decline and industrial production, the number of employees in the industry has continued to fall since 2008. Last year there were 4.8% less employees compared to the previous year, an indicative 26% less industrial employees than in 2008. And I'm sure this law won't contribute, even though I'm aware of the fact that otherwise the government only has one mechanism to simply exploit this expenditure and income side, which is radically intervened in pay itself, maybe up to 10%. To whom, where? Public service. All in all, one serious economic measure that will certainly leave Croatia, I would say, without growth, and therefore I really agree that heads should be put together and see what can be done because opportunities before us can be more difficult than better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73922	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have a few replicas. The first replica of the respected representative, Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73923	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I heard from a wise man the other day a sentence he said wasn't as poor as we were unorganized. And what you were saying today basically just proves it. You said that one of the bravest measures of this government was to reduce the contribution to health care. And is today just a time for courage or is today perhaps more time for wisdom and reality and knowledge? I think this is different. You also said that the privates will once again, I mean private entrepreneurs, once again have to plant their backs to get Croatia started. So I remember from the debate in this assembly that often the VAT increase has been defended by reducing the rate to health insurance and that private entrepreneurs benefited from it, who were then accused of the government's natural structures that they had received a reduction in contributions and had not launched Croatia. I don't understand how you think now that they're going to start if they don't have the atmosphere of entrepreneurial how a really bad climate is created in society, especially in entrepreneurship, and if entrepreneurs are constantly forced to change their plans in the course of the year if tax laws are changed, as was the example of changing the tax law relating to VAT on tourism. So, I think at this point I really do. Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73924	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73925	I don't know, I think you're looking at the wrong address, Mr. Representative, and I think we're thinking the same thing. Yes, it's time for wisdom, it's time for courage, it's time for courage, it's time for determination, but the fact is also, no one can argue that this 2% contribution to health in two years means that under quotes, the Croatian economy was relieved with 5 billion kuna and that some felt it. They felt it primarily the large economic system, far less the small ones that carry and hold Croatia and have, say, 2, 3 or 4 employees. But no matter what, they felt it, and no one can simply challenge it. Just as they all felt this pull, kidnapping from public, economic systems, and suffering in private pockets. And we will certainly feel it for a long, long time here and, especially those who live on their work or who are not on occasion to count on almost employment or such decent pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73926	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the House, Željko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73927	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you've listed various figures and said a lot, but you've mostly talked about upgrades, that's the concept you said, and that's where the increased employment stands. You argued this with figures, as the government agencies increased the number of employees in various government enterprises, etc., in tourist communities and everything. But it has nothing to do with this subject. Unfortunately, we have too few doctors and nurses in hospitals, not too many, too few. And we're actually talking about the fact that it was considered and expressed as one of the government's most important economic measures to reduce contributions to health care and now it's rising. So it's a measure that's been completely missed. You say it was a bold measure. So is this now a cowardly measure? I'm saying that neither she was brave nor this is a cowardly measure. It's simply about one wandering and not finding. And it's not true, unfortunately, that the economy felt it, it didn't feel it. If the sense had been felt, we would have had more employees and not so many more unemployed. So, it's not a problem, the problem is that it took away 5 billion health care, now it's going to come back to God. However, this shows only one discrepancy, one wandering, and something that certainly is not good when we talk about the vision of any economy, whether health care. I will not talk about the problem that this will require the adoption of a set of new laws or amendments to some other laws that are related to it. And you're saying that it prevents pay cuts, it's not true because the next law that we have to pass is the law on the right to increase wages based on years of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73928	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73929	To be clear, I simply do not defend an increase in any additional burden on any citizen, any economy. But if this measure were not to be taken, there would certainly be a significant reduction in the wages in the state upgrade, or in the people who are on this state budget of 130 billion kuna, and I certainly can't be reassured by that. I also argue that if you had left under quotes those five billion kunas that the economy had to feel. Circumstances and opportunities are simply such that Croatia has not started in these last two years and that we are simply continuing these trends since 2008 when the gross social product has fallen as much as 6.9% but it does not now exculpate, let's say, this power. The Croatian economy, Croatian citizens, Croatian weights, all those living out of their 10 fingers and this robbery, as I was also fascinated by yesterday by the number of books that individuals kept in the safes of the Tyrolean banks. That a man simply can't believe and can't come to his senses. But why do I reflect on it, because I see that if there is one good cooperation between Austrian, Liechtenstein, Italian or German authorities with the State's Attorney's Office or the Ministry of Finance, a lot more similar things can be presented to the Croatian public and perhaps through such a form if funds were returned to the country, the country could slowly start and recover slightly. If not differently, and at least in that... sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73930	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73931	Comrade Cain, although there is no intention of mentioning yesterday's events, and yet you have managed to mention it. Namely, when workers, peasants, teachers, teachers, doctors were actually lost right now, when our children were stolen from the future and the defenders of the past, you were talking about hiring or new employment in state and public services, primarily in public, of 30,000 people. Of course, the amounts paid for the wages when the 30 000 new ones are employed simply must be reduced. So there's a larger factor, the number to be divided into, but every new government employs its people by similarity. Well, you know how busy it is in these two years in the public service of people, and that's why this goes the way it goes. And at the same time in the industry was lost as you yourself said 26,000 jobs. Therefore That's even more so. ... [[Intruder: 26%.]] So another zero more, great. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So how do you think that if there are no intentions, and clearly there are neither fear nor fear for deep structural changes in this society, for reducing and restructure and administration and administrative and administrative units in the Republic of Croatia and possibly reducing the number of local units in self-government. How do you plan to reduce the number of administrations in Croatia in the first place so that we have a different trend than the ones you talked about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73932	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73933	Yes more.../Speaker disabled./... 26% of jobs have been lost in the industry since the start of the crisis in 2008, or it's about 280 000 people. At the same time, I am talking about this upgrade, whether it's about local self-government, whether it's about municipal services, agencies, ministries and public enterprises, it doesn't matter, economic, crafts or tourist communities, it's also employed around 30,000 people in that period. Only those 30,000 people in these six to seven years of crisis state, local self-government, doesn't matter, citizens cost about 3 billion kuna. We gentlemen have 100,000 more employees today than we had in the '90s. It is simply a "price" of the state, although certainly there can be a lot more rationality than it is today and sooner or later, perhaps not until the end of this government's term, some future, after 2015, will have to be questioned because so much more will simply not go on. I said today only for those 100,000 people should be provided somewhere around 15 billion kuna, as much as is the deficit or as much as will be the deficit of the Republic of Croatia for this year. If we multiply it by 5-6 years de facto every 5 years only on that additionally employed number of people should be provided with one whole state budget. One Croatia can no longer allow itself, allow it. And who will bear that price or burden of change, we may not see it for another year or two days.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73934	Thank you very much. It is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73935	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say firstly that I am a little surprised that the HDZ colleagues, who are missing the prime minister from Croatia and the second prime minister of the government are so upset, their spin doctors have stayed in Croatia, now at least every night the nation in the television logs has a chance to hear and see what the prime minister thinks about everything. When he was in Croatia, we had fewer of these opportunities, so perhaps there's something good about it. When there was a debate on the agenda and the adoption of the proposal to reduce the health contribution to 13%, we were against it. We also argued that the Croatian Parliament must do everything in our opinion to preserve public health as the greatest value of social justice that Croatia has. We warned that it was both health and education and pension systems, and that behind this is the background of the destruction of these public systems in order to open spaces for private initiative only, and that in this proposal Croatia also slaved the dogma of the world's troikas, which advocates that there is privatisation in these sectors, and one way is always the first step, to reduce contributions to reduce the size and quality of these public resources. Of course, we've been regularly charged with populism again and we don't understand anything. In the light of this proposal, the Government wrote that the measure to reduce the health contribution did not produce the expected results, i.e. did not lead to an increase in gross domestic product and an increase in employment, i.e. a reduction in unemployment, while at the same time causing the expected lower revenue in the 2012 and 2013 budget. I agree with this part that the measure did not receive the expected results in the economic sphere, nor could it be expected to receive some major results because it only affected large economic operators, and these are those who are in foreign ownership and who, after the financial year, do not reinvest in Croatia. And they actually only got the opportunity to increase their profit at the end of the year from Croatia. For small and medium-sized enterprises, the total amount and indirect state support meant almost nothing in the possibility of further development. Today has been mentioned, spoken, and lately we've been clouding the truth too often so we announce the rescue of health master's plan to make people understand as little as possible, then outsourcing to make people understand even less, and then flexible labour market. And with all these expressions, we try to cloud the truth instead of saying that the master plan is a measure that will lead to the closure of a part of the hospital, the abolition of certain services, institutions or departments in hospitals, that outsourcing is a move, the separation of employees from the public sector into the private sector, and the return to public affairs, that flexibility is the reduction of employee rights. And when we talk like that, then people will understand more clearly what's going on. But when we talk about the health and public health system, then I'd have to mention it again, I'd have to take off some fog. I am also pleased that the minister in his introduction or one replica mentioned the essence of the problem. Croatia, by law, has two categories of health insurance rights. These are insurance companies, those who pay health contributions and insured persons who necessarily do not pay a health contribution, but according to the laws have all the health insurance rights. A million and 400 thousand insurance companies, an indicative number that changes, pays 13 and now 15% of the contributions, and my data differs from the Minister of the Croatian Health Insurance Office at the moment there are 4 million and 200 thousand insured persons. The minister said $4 million if I remembered correctly. And that's where the problem begins. We are passing laws and regulations that give the right to health insurance to those who do not pay their contributions and ultimately claim that the health system is lost and that it is no longer sustainable. And every time we give someone some regulation, we give them some kind of health insurance right, we forget about two important things. That at that time we must make a) that the state from the state budget will pay a contribution for them or b) that this is the cost of the state budget that is in place when the insured person achieves the cost of health insurance, the Croatian Health Insurance Office sends the invoice to the state and it must pay the cost of the insured person. And only then are we talking about clean public health insurance relations. And never before has the state received or paid invoices for insured persons who are 4 million and 200. And of course, a million and 400 people with 15% contributions can't fill the health insurance register if we each spread the number of users or their rights. If we are so irresponsible that we are not aware that this is a burden on these funds and we are not taking the obligation to pay from the state budget, then we must not say that the health system is lost, but that the Croatian Parliament has given such laws at the expense of solidarity in health insurance which does not cover and is not a health system at risk. These are the costs of insured persons that the Croatian Institute had to pay by force of law from the funds of contributions and that is the only truth. And I only see two ways. I repeat or the state pays for them a contribution or pays an invoice of costs which have been created and has no third and simply no third. The increase in contributions, unlike the minister, I don't think he'll feel it or most of it won't feel the employers, but the employees, especially because of the gross salary contract, but not only contracts, but also the definition of wages under Croatian laws, which is always defined as gross. And they will see in the private sector these 2% transfer in a way that reduces the gross base and at the end of the month there will be zero, no increase, no reduction. And that's always how it happens when you shrink or increase contributions. In this context, the attack on the public health system should also be seen and the proposal of the International Monetary Fund a few days ago which the Government and Minister Linić had told you to be careful now that, instead of increasing the health contribution, Croatia must abolish tax reliefs for reinvested profits. Therefore, abolish tax relief for those investing in Croatia, reinvest their profits, not through contributions. What kind of message is that? What's behind that? The desire that Croatian investors in Croatia will not have tax reliefs in order to be more likely to depend on the capital behind which the IMF stands. And this recommendation by the IMF in Croatia passed without any debate or conviction. So what kind of message is that? What kind of suggestion is that? Why are we keeping our mouths shut? What are those recommendations? Punish those who reinvest in Croatia. For God's sake! Of course, they suggest reducing the contribution to 11%, not returning to 15%, a health contribution. And at the end of the day, I guess 5%. Public health care should be fenced, a private initiative should be opened not only for the provision of health services but also for private health insurance. That's the goal. That's all there is to it. Free the market from around 10 to 12 billion kuna for private health insurance. And the bankers in Croatia are already preparing for the operation. Secured persons, 33 categories, 4 million 200 grand and how their number grows when we don't change the laws. Unemployment, by increasing the number of unemployed, increases the number of insured persons who, by law, are entitled to health care for a certain period of time. And every new unemployed is a burden here in health insurance and we say health care is a waste. Liberation of employers from contributions under different active employment policy measures. Every time through law or resolution minister, through active active employment policy measures, we release the payment of contributions, we open Pandora's box and create losses in health insurance. At that time, we are not aware or at all talking about it because we expect those millions and 400 paid by health contributions to cover these 4 million 200 that are insured. Furthermore, I'm using the minister's presence to warn of another injustice we've committed against the workers of the law. And it's up to date again because of a large number of workers who work, and they don't get paid. In the case of late payment of salaries of 2, 3, 4 months in January or February, the employer pays 3 or 4 or 5 late salaries in one month and then it happens that he has to charge taxes on the total amount of these salaries even though it is not about one salary but five salaries and workers come into the tax class of 25 or even 40%. In order to achieve the right to return, they need to wait about a year and a half, end of the year, to file tax returns, and then, somewhere in June, they eventually get too much tax paid. It's about people who were 6 or 5 or 4 months without pay and managed to get their salary and we punish them with such an increased tax and we tell them to wait a year and a half for the state to pay them back that tax. Minister, I appeal to you, and a small intervention in the law is necessary, that when it comes to paying more wages in one month, the tax billing according to tax classes is for each salary individually. To avoid this situation, these poor people who have worked for months without pay are punished for their employer's failure. And I end up next, the continued public health abuse will be in the future. The pressures on both the government and the Parliament will continue and they will grow stronger. Not because they think it can be done, but because it's their interests. The World Troika dogma imposed by most of the countries in Europe, as well as the dogma of 3% of the government budget deficit, which everyone considers to be the product of large calculations. And 3% of the government budget deficits were invented by two advisors to French President Mitterand then who called them, says every day I have attacks on ministers, asking for more money, make something up so I can drive them away. And then they retreated and after an hour came to the president and told 3%. Now they're talking about how they got to 3%. 1% too little, 2% would be optimal, but the problem is that Mitterand had a 2.6% deficit at the time, so we rounded it up to 3%. And that's how a dogma of 3% of the government's budget deficit was created. No analysis, no calculations, no evidence that it's a real measure of limitations. And these same economists, the advisers of then-President Mitterrand, said today: 3% of the government budget deficit is sustainable, reasonable and acceptable only if GDP growth is 5%. Then it has an excuse. We slave dogmas that never have economic analysis, calculations and evidence to give positive effects. If we do not resist all of this, you will see a request, a health contribution of 11% and 8% and 5% and a request for liberalisation of health insurance in private hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73936	Thank you. Now we move on to replicas. Igor Radenovic signed up first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73937	Thank you, Mr. President. I've been paying attention to Mr. Lesar, I don't know how accurate this story about the Mitterrans' advisors and 2.6%, but it looks like they've been thinking economically like our colleague Milinovic, so they've been throwing themselves around with numbers. I won't get tired, I've had previous replicas, so I'll repeat, you yourself said that the reduction in the contribution to health insurance is also a reduction in the health budget and that as you said, it's not only on health but also on the pension and on the education system, etc. It's just not like that. The amount of the health budget as well as the pension budget as well as all others is determined by budgeting. Of course, the basic basic income of health insurance is a health contribution but the good part is accumulated from the budget. So, for example, in retirement, we have a pension amount if I'm not wrong about expenses, a pension cost of 36 million. From this, some 19 billion are collected and 17 billion, I repeat, 17 billion have to be compensated from the budget. It's not a simple task for anyone, especially the Minister of Finance. It's a billion and a half kuna a month, it's 500 million kuna a day, excuse me, 50 million kuna a day as much as it takes to operate the pension system, and on Saturdays and Sundays every day, it's not easy to find 50 million kunas. And I said before, those three serious triggers of the state deficit, so the interest on public debt, they got closer or virtually almost as simple as our deficit. The peace system I have now explained why and health care are three basic triggers and I hope that and at least on this third long-term pension health system, we obviously don't have to solve it, it's going to be a deficit trigger, we can't solve the interest in the long term, and they're going to be the trigger of the deficit, but we can and we need to solve it so that it's not the newer trigger of the deficit, and I hope that, as I said to my colleagues Milinovic in his debate that we will find political responsibility in the discussion of the Master Plan, Hospital and the new rational health system and together come to a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73938	Thank you. The line matches the esteemed Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73939	I don't understand anything right now. I supported the proposal to return the health contribution to 15%, it must be done because of the long-term sustainability of the public health system, and now you're polluting with me, which is the problem or you don't understand me, yes, the reduction in contributions was an insult to public health in Croatia at the time of the registered 4 billion debt, when you reduce the health contribution then you have to be aware that you will have to settle these debts, whether from the budget or somewhere else, I'm telling you all about it. You mentioned the pension system, so of course the problem is that from the state budget we have to add money to pay for the pension, but because we have also introduced certain rights not due to the payment of contributions, insurance contributions. That's what we have in the health system, that's what we have in the pension system, what are we doing? By law, we introduce certain pension rights which are not the result of the payment of contributions, which we call retirement and introduce into generation solidarity. Why are we doing this? Not now, not for the last two years, since 93, this process has started, in particular, 95th, and we say that the pension system is unsustainable, so of course it's unsustainable, it has 40% of what's not due to the payment of contributions and we call insurance, pension insurance, health insurance, insurance policy is something that gives certain rights, the insurance can't disturb, take my funds for something else because we have a contract, and what do we do to correct it? Nothing. We find that we have to add money.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73940	Time. New replica, respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73941	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is Honorable Representative Lesar, I have also closely followed your debate and it always has its end in some way, development, beginning, divorce discussions and the end. However, I'm surprised you didn't give it here or at least if you didn't have to verbally state why you didn't have any thoughts, therefore, which led to this bill. This amendment and the addition of the law were not caused by anything. You must know during the period that there were years until 2008 that we did not have the crime of not paying, or earlier we had the mysterious act of our criminal law gone, or the payment of contributions to health and pension insurance. So we see that it was a whole plan of those who now, who wouldn't apologize, who run away from the facts, who think it happened so long ago that nothing really happened. Now you're saying that by how much we've reduced our contribution to health care, that health care is damaged. You need to know in 2011, the total amount for HZZO was 21.3 billion, 2013. 23 billion. So that we can meet further obligations, this proves to be one necessity. The truth is that for this past period when health insurance contributions have been reduced, employers have been given over 4.5 billion, lack of social responsibility and well-meaning to invest in development investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73942	The replica matches the esteemed Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73943	My colleague Ingrid, I can agree with you that it might have been some kind of master plan when it wasn't a crime so now it is, but just two notes. It's only when we get a report from the State's Attorney's Office and we see that the state's attorneys are able to see how many of these crimes are sanctioned we'll see if that legal code has any effect. I believe so far he will have but been taught an earlier experience difficult. But there's a newer moment, we have now a big Master plan because in those who have kept their contributions secret and haven't paid for it, now that problem solves pre-fashion settlements and haven't committed a crime and the consequences for your health system and your pension system are the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73944	A new replica, Honorable Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73945	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, your Honorary representative, you said very precisely that, of course, one of the problems with the lack of money in the health care system is that unfortunately the budget does not pay for the health system what it should be, it should be paid under existing rules. Surely, along with this reduction in health care contributions, this has contributed to a terrible lack of health money at the moment. The problem will not be solved even by increasing the money itself. The system of health unfortunately requires structural reforms that have not even begun to be implemented. We're hearing about the mythic master plan as much as some other mythic strategies that apparently exist, which no one has seen except one or two selected journalists, whether they saw the last version, the last version, any version, we don't know, but we don't know any version of these strategies, master plan, as you already call them, we haven't seen, and time goes by. It has been over two years, and no structural reform in the health care system has even begun, let alone in order to achieve it and I fear that this money that will enter the health care system will unfortunately not help our citizens to have a better health care service and that the health system works in the way that we all want it to.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73946	Thank you very much. The replica matches the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73947	Comrade Reiner, it is also clear in the light of this law that in '12. and '13. The year the health system remained due to this reduction of 3.7 billion, not 5, it's not 4, but 3.7. This return to 15%, if I'm not mistaken this year is a billion and 600, in the next year two billion and 400. That's still gonna mean something, but to clear up my dilemma, and probably help you, as well as the Minister of Finance. If we could only get two information from HZZO, let's say for the past calendar year, how many costs have been achieved for insurance companies and how many for insured persons? And then they'd see what's going on in consumption and they knew that 15% of the contributions to the insurance costs, how much it takes for them, and how much for the insured. And they would probably then calculate and contribute and isolate the Croatian Institute from the Treasury would allow exactly what we are constantly proposing. For insured persons, the state must pay the cost, not because they pay the contribution. Those would be clean bills all over me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73948	Now we'll hear the replica of Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73949	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Lesar, when you were talking, I had a feeling that you'd bagatelized or banalized and... a plan of hospitals and out-courting, or parts of the rationalization, or parts of the health reform. We witnessed that there were various examples in the county hospitals, bad examples, and that it was simply necessary to clean up this mess, or to structure a mess that had ruled for years. Very often, the heads of the county who were the founders of these hospitals used very often the words that hospitals were kidnapped, but hospitals were not kidnapped, but order had to be made. That's why the Resuscitation Act has been passed, the recoverys have been accessed in hospitals, the Sanitation Councils have been more successful somewhere, somewhat less successful in doing their job, I will say at Dubrovnik Hospital, for example, that the Sanacija Council is doing well and that now it is opening up and palitative care and there will be no new employment but the rationalization of the existing chamber will be used. I can agree with you that a very difficult state of health and that it is difficult to secure with a smaller number of employees all those services that were. In Croatia, however, Bizmark’s health funding model based on solidarity and reciprocity is being implemented, but when you look at public health, it is financed from the tax of the working-active population and it is certainly very difficult to carry out health care in this way. But that's the only way we're doing it now, unlike the others, and that's why I'm saying that I think you've banalized just these very efforts that are now being carried out in health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73950	And this replica corresponds to representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73951	Dear colleagues, I didn't banalize, I just translated it into Croatian. Master plan in health means closing part of hospitals or closing individual departments of services and institutions in existing hospitals, out-courting means detachment of part of the state, I won't tell officials, public service jobs, translation into private and returning to the state service, and flexibility of the labour market means "March out", it's in Croatian the meaning of these three concepts in which you hide. And let's be clear. I completely understand, these are ideological differences between us and you. Ideological approach, liberal is such that everything needs to be privatised, reduced, squeezed, saved, taken away and that the state is not a good master of anything and everything needs to be privatised. We from the left believe that the state can also be a good master and manage its resources, not only natural, but a good master of a state-owned company and we do not accept the entry of private into the public health system because we believe that Croatia has one of the best quality public health systems that we cannot give. That's the ideological difference between you and us. You're making your own ideology, liberal, I'm making our left and what now? We disagree. Well, of course, that's why we're not in the same game.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73952	Now we shall hear the replica of the esteemed Brank Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73953	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Lesar, you said that people use incomprehensible words in order not to understand what is happening to them, but I must say, and you are aware that unfortunately our citizens understand everything that is happening, that they understand that there are fewer and fewer doctors, that the worse health care is getting, that it is becoming more and more inaccessible, that it is increasingly expensive. So no words used will do any good, especially if things matter to the lives of the citizens, for the lives of the people take place far from the eyes of the public, are not available to public insight and public debate, then we cannot expect something better. What I must also say is that I disagree with you is a sentence you said that entrepreneurs will not feel as employers but that this increase in rates by 2% will be felt by workers. They'll feel each other. It is likely that this rate of 13% so far has helped entrepreneurs of many of them to survive in this atmosphere at all in this anti-enterprise climate that is ruling in Croatia, and it is possible that because of the increase in the rate or return... It's even harder to do business, that it might fall apart and that more people will automatically be out of a job. [[The speaker is not understood for coughing.]] So they're gonna feel each other, they're gonna get hurt by each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73954	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73955	Yes, colleague Hrg if you're right that people understand everything then it's not regrettable but fortunately. When people in the state understand everything it's luck, it's good... said it's regrettable. But I will again give you the claim that this, as a reduction in the contribution of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs did not mean much and none of the small and medium-sized thanks to it barely survived because it is a few thousand kunas, those who have 5.6 employees, but the most benefites got those large of whom were expected to finally start an investment cycle in Croatia, from those who make profits, from those we all expected to be the generator of investment, new jobs and also exports and win new markets. And what did they do? Legally about 3 billion kuna profits brought out, and through various invoices for tobacco intellectual services, advisory services, research of the PR market probably even so much cost showed, and money ended up in their companies to mothers or sister companies and banks abroad. I don't mean to moan and cry at all because of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73956	Next replica, respected Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73957	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lesar, previous colleagues have said a lot that I have already noticed but I remember the same thing when the debate on reducing this contribution was and other colleagues were talking about the consequences that will come from this. So now whatever I'm calling it today, the measures haven't gotten results, or there are certainly two basic principles that have been violated, which is availability and quality, and I'm not talking about quality. And now in that section talk about insurance rights, patients... that's what it takes. [[The speaker facing the microphone doesn't understand.]] And even today, I'm listening to that commercial on the radio where, as advertised, the rights at EU level are Charter 14, rights, etc. I want to say that these rights are highly tested because if we mention that 400 days wait for either 500 or 600 on some examination or search, then these are indeed the rights of an extremely large trial. But I want to say when we were at... well, we were a witness myself, I think I was defending myself in the last session, there were objections to today's position when it was asked to cut that contribution to 7% as I recall, so it was to 7%. Well, that's what I don't think I can figure out at all where it's going to come from now, when we see what the consequences are to be reduced, so I think without a certain simulation and quality that would come from it that it's really not good at all. And by then certain lessons could have been learned, and in some ways they are now talking about insults. It's not a good idea that any species are being harassed primarily on such an important system as health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73958	And this replica will be answered by Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73959	Comrade Milinkovic, let's agree on one thing, the finance minister has proposed a bill that is on the trail of what we were saying when the contribution was cut. So he indirectly realized that this measure was necessary, came to this, and let's now support it all together because I know that the government is under pressure and I'm going to repeat the objections to the public health system, and one way to defend it is the stability of the sources of funding. And this proposal for all to whom the public health system is important, who understand its importance not only from a health aspect but from a far wider value it has, we must have the same attitude, always have access not only now and send a message to those who call for a health contribution to 7%, there have been such proposals I have seen, simply must never pass in this assembly, must not pass. That's what we're discussing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73960	The last replica of the respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73961	Thank you very much. Your colleague Lesar said that the deficit of the state budget should not be seen in isolation but should be observed in relation to GDP developments. Not a single phenomenon, especially economically, should be observed from just one angle. And the most dangerous thing is to observe it in the economic part. It is not the same 3% of the deficit if economic growth and economic decline are not the same if growth is 1% and growth is 5%. Not the same in the country 3% of the unemployment rate is 8% or 22%. Or if the debt is 80% of GDP or 40% of GDP. It is also not the same with regard to the structure of the economy, 3% on the structure of the German economy and 3% on the structure of the Croatian economy is incomparable. The structure of the German economy resembles the structure in Croatia almost as a human monkey, cannot be compared. Believers of institutions that promote the interests of the creditors of the Republic of Croatia are not interested in the social state, they are interested in borrowing, in returning loans with as much interest as possible and advice as you have said do not make it easier to reinvested profits. The advice comes to privatize, deregulate, liberalize, it'll be worse for you but we'll give you credit, you'll pay back the loans. Don't produce, import. Import our products, not yours. Our products are more unquality, but that's why they're more expensive, but that's why we're gonna grant you loans, go to minuses, buy ours. You'll get sick, but don't get treated. Because there's a whole series of economists who, by reason of the main poverty in the world, think it's too many people, that's the consequence of this view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73962	We'll hear the answer to this replica, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73963	Yes, my colleague Maric, just because of the time I failed to tell this dogma of the world's troika all by the end, I explained how a floscule or dogma was created about 3% of the government budget deficit. That is how the second dogma was created on public debt 60% of gross social product because one and the other was made without putting into context not only the unemployment that you mentioned, other parameters but also the movement of industrial production in the structure of imports and exports. I'd say the structure of the economy as a whole. And the third factor is other than their recognition that these two dogmas are worth if GDP growth is 5% the second parameter is, inflation must not be greater than 2% because if it is exceeded then there is collapse. And yes, the question of social justice in society doesn't interest them at all, they want only one certainty that the debtor state is ready and able to repay its debts and nothing else. The price they'll pay for it doesn't interest them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73964	We'll continue the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, a respected representative of Kresimir Bubalo will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73965	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, we have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Contributions, I hope with a final draft of the law. Why do I say "final"? Well, I hope there won't be any new changes soon. But the joke aside, in any case, I would like to say at the beginning that the HDSSB is responsible for solving all problems and often looking at projections where Croatia is going in which direction. So also when the change was made to reduce from 15% to 13% when the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Contributions from 15 to 13 we were not in favour at that time because our estimates in the HDSSB indicated that reforms within health care were not made, we estimated that the plan was gone and we estimated that we would have a greater deficit than we had in that moment. In fact, today we have one of the proposed laws that go this week that are in line with the projections and the budget rebalance, but here he comes after three months after being voted. And we all remember the debate when we had here in the Croatian Parliament about this budget for 2014 and we all estimated that the gross social product would not grow, we all estimated that the budget was created in an unreal way. And we were assessing and talking about certain items in the budget, so from that item where the government increased 22%, it means the government's separation to all of the other cost items that we thought were already being rationalized in 2012 and could not have been rationalized, put into frames, but unfortunately, in the last two years, the deficit was rising. We have a situation that, from 2008 to today, the deficit of the Republic of Croatia has been created greater in these six years than it has been since the beginning of the Republic of Croatia. This says that we have not simulated and assessed in one responsible way what will happen in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, I have no doubt about the intentions of Minister Linic and his associates, they solve the problem of other ministries, primarily the Ministry of Health. We were all witnesses last year when the rebalancing provided these medical recovery funds. We welcomed it because we estimated that these closets and skeletons would close, that there would be no new ones, that there would be no new problems. And we thought that health care would be rehabilitated, draw a line, there's a clear plan, so today we're talking about a master plan, we're talking about a master plan for a long time, we're talking about outsourcing. But the government has seen this almost 2.5 - year change in health care, the waiting lists are growing longer, the dubiosis is growing. And then before us comes this motion to amend the law. I repeat, Minister Linic is sure he has good intentions but must agree these good intentions at the cabinet meeting with the prime minister but also with other fellow ministers. It is visible when the budget which is unrealistic, the 2014 budget was adopted, that they did not get along well, that they did not properly assess the situation for 2014, but it was also evident that ministers who were expected to cut the expenditure side if they did not do so. And today we certainly need to ask the prime minister's question and responsibilities, but also the health minister's responsibilities. Minister Rajko probably spent time doing other things last year, not doing what is important for health services, for our Croatian citizens, but also for ironing dubiosis within the health system. But when this law was passed and that percentage was reduced from 15 to 13, we said it was irresponsible because we estimated that the simulation was not made, that there was no known what the left was doing, and what the right hand was doing, and that we would have this situation that we would have to iron the dues again. Well, sometimes it seems to me that the finance minister isn't the finance minister, he's the ironing minister. That's what we at the HDSSB don't want. And when you look at 2012 the effects were a billion and 514, 2013 2 billion and 272 million, which is 3 billion and 786. If this law changes, and I believe there are enough hands in the Croatian Parliament, the effect will be minus 4 billion and some kuna. But Minister, I think your evaluations for 2014 and 2015 are also not good. We estimate in the HDSSB that there will be less, there will be no billion and 600 million 2014, 2015 there will also be 2 billion and 400 because at this point we estimate that the creative ministers have not done their part of the job, that ministers who are in charge of new employment, for creating new jobs, for bringing investments, for reducing the deficit of the balance of payments of the Republic of Croatia have not received the effects. Therefore, we estimate that these effects will not occur in either 2014 or 2015. You tried to help entrepreneurs, but today the question arises whether it helped entrepreneurs at that time. Most entrepreneurs say no, but also today the question is whether this increase from 13 to 15 will be an increase for employers only, but we say it will be somewhere for employers and somewhere for workers. Somewhere for employers where a net salary was arranged, and there also for workers where gross wages were agreed. And we all know that strangers and a good part of entrepreneurs shifts the risk exactly to the worker and we all know that they negotiate a good part and gross wages. There will certainly be workers, our Croatian citizens who are still working, and the question is what will be tomorrow, will have a reduction in the consumer basket and will have an increase that will reflect on their salary from 13% to 15%. It's our tax system. One important question for all investors in the Republic of Croatia. We can't change the tax system today like this tomorrow. The unity of the tax system, but also the rates are very important for investors and indeed decide to invest somewhere. So here are the discussions that were held during the previous adoptions when the amount was reduced from 15 to 13 was said that among other economic measures, this measure serves as a tool for economic development and economic recovery of entrepreneurship just to reduce contributions. So what would this mean today? So today would serve the opposite, but there must be a responsible policy, responsible thinking about what will be tomorrow, and not just today with our Croatian and our deficit. The deficit is huge, but what's important in the past six years is that it's made so many hips of time and takeovers of both the Paris and London clubs and the whole war and the porn and the time until 2008. It is a question that you and this government, but also the former must ask, what it did for Croatia or how it threw Croatia into debt slavery. These days we have witnessed that Croatia was living on credit, but is dying in wars. Croatia received credit credit rating junk in credit, and Croatia will no longer be able to borrow much more because the share of GDP debt has crossed the line the European Commission allows. And that's why we have to look ourselves in the eye today and say there have been missed policies, but let's make a decision. We will no longer change tax rates by heart than on the basis of the number, based on the study, based on forecasting, based on analysis and based on sound policy, a policy that will reflect on import reductions, a policy that will reflect on export growth, which will reflect precisely on our producers who need help and policies that will be directly reflected in co-financing of very direct employment. This kind of wandering wasn't good, and it didn't have to be reduced from 15 to 13% at all. Our rebalancing that you've instructed our citizens are expecting a better life. In fact, the citizens of that rebalancing will not feel a better life, but what kills us even more is that words spoken and at government meetings do not encourage, do not give optimism to our citizens. But I also want to say, exactly the HNS policy that is often heard is that there will be no tax hikes. Well, I'm surprised why the HNS is silent today. In Croatia it takes justice, not to punch everything in the pocket and not to hit everything from 13% to 15%, but to think about just one social policy would go towards hitting those more who have, and those who do not have to fight anymore because they are exhausted. Thus, property tax or real estate tax, but the property tax is very important and the adoption of a legal solution. There would be much more justice than hitting linearly on everyone. If the property was hit especially by those who robbed Croatia, and today their accounts are quite full and then there would be justice, then it would be precisely a sign that those who have more and who are rich pay more, those who are poor to pay less. This, this correction only one part of the tax system isn't good, it doesn't look at the whole, and it's the whole that matters to us. We care about strategies, we care about the strategy of our economy, it is important that we finally detect what these are the strategic branches of the Republic of Croatia. Just before you spoke to ministers about shipbuilding, but it was much more important to invest in agriculture, it was much more important to stabilise our production, strengthen processing capacity, withdraw funds from the European Union, and here we see a chance for construction, but also for withdrawing EU funds that can multiple our resources from both the state and local and regional budgets. But it's obvious that people expected a lot from Plan 21. We didn't get anything to do with that plan because the plan wasn't realized. So when you look at that plan, it says a lot of things, but the exact opposite measures happened, the opposite rates. And when a man brings a plan, he has to stick to the plan. So let this also be a lesson today that we must stick to the plan and that Croatia must finally have a development plan, not walk along the edge, along the cliff and enter daily into growing debt slavery. The security tax is important in order to know the perspectives of our citizens, but also the perspectives of our economies. The prime minister said the other day we wouldn't be Greece. So do we really need to be Greece? Therefore, it must be spared. And now when we look at the rebalancing, you're increasing the income side, you're trying to cut the cost side. We are confident in the HDSSB that there were many items on the expenditure side that could be cut. Well, according to the halls, journalists are asking me, says Minister Maras, saying I don't know a new car in the garage, as you comment. Well, the minister should be a creator. If that car was in his garage, they shouldn't have bought it. Therefore, there was not one thought-out policy. That kind of cost was supposed to be fucked, and that's the kind of position we have in all the ministries. But just when the budget came to the government and that budget that was for 2012, then in 2013, it had to be cut, then it should have started because you had support, but you also had to understand that you had a responsibility at that point for cutting the expenditure side. It's pretty late today, but it's not too late. Therefore, we must be together, and we in the opposition often turn out to be critics and there must be criticism. But it is very important to have constructive criticism and guidance specifically on the expenditure side, because if there is no consensus in this Croatian Parliament and around the expenditure side then Croatia will not go forward. And we want the HDSSB to make that happen as soon as possible, because we believe in it, Croatia has hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73966	Thank you. Your exposure has caused as many as 10 replicas. First came the honorary Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73967	Dear colleague Bubalo, I'll leave from the end. You were also talking about cars in the garage. Only by the way, it's one of the biggest delusions of the delusions we hear every day from ministers who don't even know what they said yesterday, so today they claim the opposite of what they said yesterday. The citizens got sick of it. Cars show, just buying the car character of this government. You said at the very beginning that the business of the state should have been rationalized by 2012. I agree with you. But I don't agree with you when you say the Ministry of Finance is handling the situation at the Ministry of Health or Health. Because their language was far more important to turn it into health, health care, which is not true. The finance ministry began to fix the situation at the health ministry two years ago when it reached the health ministry's pocket by several billion. So it got involved, and now it needs to be disintegrated. when you were talking about rationalizing the state apparatus, we will now talk after this law on the law on gambling. Even the poor will stick that hand in their pocket, but 200 state agencies, institutions, institutes, councils spent by billions are unquestionable because there are employees, those who are not allowed to touch one party or another. And that's a consensus reached. There are bulk machines that have no purpose or function at all. Here in the Parliament, we heard six cases, four of them declared to be incompetent, and two of them didn't make it in a year. It's those agencies, the institutes we're paying for. And the end of the line. Enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73968	The replica matches the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73969	Thank you very much, dear colleague Vuksic. I mean, I mentioned those cars a little while ago, and they ask me in the hallway. Well, that's an irrelevant topic, an irrelevant topic, because the minister had to create new jobs and create new revenues. But he didn't do it. And then the only important thing for him is that the car is in the garage. So the car's unnecessarily bought. There's plenty of space on the expenditure side and you just said in your replica that the citizens aren't interested yesterday or today, the citizens are interested in what's going to be tomorrow. And this is tomorrow with this kind of thinking and with this deficit, Croatia is losing tomorrow, and it won't have tomorrow. However, it is evident that the health minister has not done his job. He didn't do anything to stabilize the system, to reduce waiting lists, and to make healthcare available to everyone. The rationalization of the state's monitoring and... Right through the agencies and unifying agencies not only cutting the cost side. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unities would get a lot of impact on the spending side. 200 agencies is too much. But what's for sure by looking at the new proposals that our citizens go to, the only thing that's left for them is to play with games of chance and see there's another chance to cheer up, so here's a little happiness to be taxed, and this small amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73970	Now we will hear the replica of the respected Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bubalo, you were talking about that all these measures that are being taken and the reduction of health care contributions are without a plan and that's one wandering. So we can call it an experiment without effects that can't even produce any results in the future. He was supposed to make a recovery plan for the county hospitals, he's gone. It was supposed to be a health restructuring plan. It's gone. Two years with 2% less contributions, it is certain that healthcare cannot endure, that debts are doubled, that there has been a collapse that is difficult to correct. If you raise your contribution to 17% of the question is whether it would be enough in view of everything seen in health care and in charge of whether it would be enough to go back to zero and settle all debts. This is how we try it, so we can't guarantee the citizens that they will have legitimate services, that they will have care, that they will have timely checks, and especially that they are suppliers, which have passed in some areas and 360 days, and we have a 60-day law. So I think it has nothing to do with what's going on in our financial system in contributions that we've been reducing for a day or a year because of the economy, and the economy is getting deeper and deeper into hopelessness, collapse, and there's no shift. We see that it is completely missed and fiscal, but also general politics of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73972	The replica matches Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73973	Thank you very much. Dear Djakić, namely health care is chronically ill. It's not health care for a sick year or two days, health care is much longer sick. But what concerns us in the HDSSB is a deficit, especially a dizzy increase in it since 2008. In these six years, the deficit has grown higher than in the last 60 years. So that's what we're worried about. There were no results, but there was no time when HDZ managed the Ministry of Health or the Croatian government. Therefore, an increase of 17% would not mean so much reflection in the state register. But what I'm also interested in is how much has been written off in pre-price agreements for health care, and how much was missing from that particular purpose in the government register? I'd also like to know that number. And I expect the chief to tax that exact number and tell us today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73974	Followed by a replica of the esteemed Vesna Scare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73975	My dear colleague, I agree with you that there was really no quality thinking involved in increasing the health contribution. In fact, we are in the sixth year of crisis and indeed continues to roll downhill and investment falls and production falls, state revenues are also falling. The only thing that's growing is the cost of the state and the loss of health care. And this increase in the health contribution in the sixth year of the crisis will certainly not have a good impact on the business of the company, but it is evident that this is the only way for the government to meet the European Commission's recommendation to reduce deficits. Therefore, it was not necessary to reduce the health rate because it did not help the economy or the private sector, and as we can see, health care has been thrown on its knees in spite of everything. So, I agree with you on a poorly prepared measure that has had no effect on small and medium-sized enterprises and the economy. So, it would be better, I agree with all those who say it would be better if two billion were reduced by parafiscal intrusions. However, the question is whether and now with this increase in the contribution of the health care system will be better because it is definitely in the fungi but it needs to be analysed why it is in the fungi. In fact, none of the reforms so far have received absolutely no results. Neither health reform nor pension reform, the education system also had several failed reforms. The amendments to labour legislation are entirely uncertain. The pre-fashion deals you mentioned were practically from the biggest asset turned into a major weight. So the question is, what are these assessments, and are we going to discuss for the next six years whether or not we're going to raise or lower our health rate to help health care?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73976	The replica matches Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73977	There's a lot of you in your replica. When we talk about exports, production, etc. It's evident that all macroeconomic indicators and indicators are dropping, that's what discourages us. Therefore, faith and hope must be awakened. But it won't wake up with this increase from 13% to 15%. But that's why I'm going back and talking about responsible politics. When the HDSSB spoke of not reducing from 15% to 13% that I was asking you today in the Croatian Parliament, who will be responsible for the lost 4 billion kunas of the state budget, the easiest thing to say is that the effects did not get results on the economy. We have estimated that there will be no then either, but it is a much more important topic for our citizens, which will be tomorrow, whether the system will be better, with this increase not because it will patch up the dubiosis that occurred not only in these two years but from a long period. So when you bring one such measure, you have to have a thought-out policy, you have to have a strategy, you have to have a vault of analysis, you have to have one serious analysis, and it's only when you've rationalized your business, only when you have the effects in your hand and not the effects on the branch. Unfortunately, the health system, the lists have been increased and 4 billion kunas have been raised.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73978	Let's listen to the replica of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73979	Thank you very much. Comrade Bubalo, you are a great economist and I, as a doctor, may not have so much right to this replica, but since it was also this contribution to health care that we are now returning to 15% even though there was no need to risk that contribution, that percentage contribution. You said there was no government, so she didn't do a simulation, no study, no analysis of the amount, no analysis, no strategy, no idea how to solve all this. You see that every day we have phenomena that one day we say there will be real estate taxes, the other day says there will be no real estate tax. One day he gets into the university's money, the next day he says we're not gonna catch the university's money. One day it's said to be outsourcing in hospitals so now they say it won't be outsourcing and so on. It really represents one, one uncertainty. One day there was, therefore, a doctor's work obligation in hospitals, the other day there was no work obligation, the Constitutional Court abolished work, so just one confusion, one chaos, and what do you expect tomorrow? Well, I think that our children, in fact our children's future has been stolen, workers and peasants, teachers, teachers, doctors, nurses of medical actually ruined the present and our defenders either have to or are forbidden to think about the past. It's actually a black fact that we can argue with all of these moves that this government is making. To reduce the expenditure side, so 2.5 years are trying and besides, the budget for this year was 17,5 billion immediately at the start of the planned deficit, so is it normal for man to predict his deficit by 17,5 billion kuna. No, but despite this, all these unfortunate cars, 50 million kuna tyres, we heard it only once in the news and never again and 50 million kunas were promised for tires next to 300 million kunas for cars.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73980	The replica matches Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73981	Thank you very much. Col. Grubisic, we don't usually replicate within the club, but here's what happens sometimes because we have to express a clear view of the HDSSB and a clear view is that we shouldn't have reduced the amount from 15% to 13%, but this increase from 13 to 15 is a little unserious for us at the club. I'd like to say it says 14.2 then I'd be sure it was done on the basis of some calculation, estimates, forecasts, one seriousness. Well, you mentioned a real estate tax or a property tax or a rich tax earlier, it's logical that when in this time of crisis, when people have a hard time living to hit on the rich and not on the poor or all the same. It's not the same thing when you hit someone who doesn't or when you hit someone who does. So there should be a difference and just looking at the Kukuriku coalition HNS was saying there is no tax hike, no tax hike, no price hikes, no energy, no, no, no, every day there is, there is. That's what our problem is. But the bigger problem is you just spoke universities, outsourcing etc. We often have balloons in the media. This can't be a balloon government, this must be the Croatian Government who will think hard about what tomorrow will be. So the expense side was supposed to start cutting two years ago and just before you detected a few points on that spending page. This government has the full support of the HDSSB that the expenditure side, the cost, the pooling of the agency, the cutting of expenditure, you have full support in that part. But even in this case, the budget rebalance you're raising the revenue side again in a strange way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73982	Next is the replica of the esteemed Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73983	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bubalo, you mentioned among other things, and it's obvious now that it's become, I'd almost say the main theme in the replicas. You said Minister Linic would have to agree to measures with other members of the government. I think that, first of all, is working above all in harmonising the government's move and the government's strategy within the coalition. So certain measures that are then translated into laws must first be agreed in the coalition, the coalition government is and in each coalition government it is difficult to reach final solutions. I mention this, for example, with the mentioned property tax law, so so far we have three, four times had announcements that the tax will be introduced and the tax waiver, re-announces, and now here is the announcement for the next year or for the following year. So it's a matter of coalition agreement because then it's very embarrassing to listen to one representative of the ruling coalition who is not for the SDP and who speaks on a television show, he tells Minister Linic that he should read more and that he should learn more. It's very awkward and it's very, very embarrassing. You mentioned credit ratings, i.e. credit ratings of the Republic of Croatia. Exactly all the agencies mentioned, for example, rigidly in Croatia, working legislation, but around it we will obviously never and certainly never reach an agreement and you mentioned conveniently that we should flaunt on the property of those, as you said who robbed Croatia. But to get to these we must, since we have changed the Constitution and passed some laws, we must also have judgments for those who robbed Croatia because otherwise it sounds just like, here's some kind of parole. So what I'm saying is that the government has to be absolutely more determined in the projects and the program that it's committed to, and when it's decided on something, then it has to either implement it or say it's made a mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73984	The replica matches Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73985	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kosor, it is important that Minister Linic aligns himself and is certainly in line at the cabinet meetings, and normally the prime minister brings the last word. But I estimate that Minister Linic did indeed propose such a budget, it would not certainly be such a budget, his presentations in the Croatian Parliament are often known, but also in public. In fact, it's always important for the coalition to agree on attitudes, too, is a wide-ranging Kukuriku coalition, but it's just an important plan. But when it comes to a tax plan, i.e. a property or real estate tax plan, a rich tax plan, then it's often heard, it's going to be a little tomorrow, it's from 2016. I would like it to be a little today and to start exactly increasing those rates or taxing the property or property of those who have because Croatian citizens are exhausted and the Croatian state is exhausted, so our credit rating is getting worse every day and it worries us, we want to change that. But when we talk about this robbery in the Republic of Croatia, surely the verdicts are very important, but it is important to go that way in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73986	Replica, Honorable Vice President of the House Željko Reiner. You signed up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73987	Excuse me. Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, I agree with you with a good part of your exposure in which you said that unfortunately it was about wandering, as well as in many other situations, and that the contribution should not have been reduced because unfortunately it did not benefit the economy, and it certainly did harm the health care. That is what we talked about and when it was brought, unfortunately it was not what we wanted to hear. What I wanted to report for, however, is the fact that you were talking about debt and how debt is created, that is, the debt of the state that it means. The main problem at this point, I think it's not long in itself, but the problem for which the new debt that has been created, especially in these two years, has been used. It was not used to create new jobs, it was not used to open new production plants, it was unfortunately used to cleavage holes in the budget and consumption. And here's the key problem. I'm long on my own. It's not some bogeyman, if he's used for something that will benefit citizens in the future, more employment, etc. However, there is a key problem that the debt of the state was not used for these purposes, and what you said, of course, stands completely and there is one problem. There's been a change, an introduction of some rates, a reduction of some rates, and all without analysis, all without real calculations and evidence. So if you want to give it to us who should all discuss it and tell us whether it's good or not, which is why we could even conclude it, and we don't see those calculations. We do not see, nor have we seen when we were pictured and claimed to be very good to reduce the rate nor now when it is said to be very good to increase the rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73988	The answer to the replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73989	Thank you very much. Comrade Reiner, here you are talking in your replica about wandering and that it has damaged the health care. It's just that Croatia has not been wandering around for two years, Croatia has been wandering around for a long time, and that's why there's been such a deficit, but what we're worried about is that it's going to be spent on some things that don't create new values. Therefore, it is precisely the cutting of this expenditure party that Croatia needs, and this could have been done in 2008, 2009, much earlier and when we felt that the crisis was coming. But some have yelled crisis, Croatia is not in crisis, etc. But now that the line is drawn, then you can see what was done, I'd say a lot longer than the last two years, and that's our problem. But the problem is that you just said in your replica that we don't have a calculation today for what's going to happen tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73990	A new replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bubalo, two years ago in the High House, was discussed in a package, in a joint discussion of four tax laws. So, the Tax Act on... value, the Tax on Profit, the Tax on Income and the Law on Contributions, which we can also consider to be that law in a certain way. And now that we look at it two years later, does one of those laws stay the way we did, actually the ones who voted for it, but it doesn't matter what the House of Commons adopted two years ago? It's not one. Unfortunately, some have experienced several changes, and the worst thing in taxes, the worst thing, is a message to investors if you often change taxes. Because if you come to invest money, and you don't know what you have to pay from your business and how much you're going to make tomorrow, how much money you're going to pay for it, then that gives you a lot of uncertainty. And since capital doesn't ask a lot of questions, it only asks three questions, one is political stability, the other is tax, some economic stability, and the third is some kind of stability in the environment and profit. So on these three questions, basically none of the key questions we have a clear answer and the logical thing that happens to us is what happens to us. However, what surprises me is that this government has a fiscal responsibility law and it has finally changed it, and it needs to be disciplined by those who spend state resources from the state budget, by taxpayers, and then there will be fewer of these wanderings. 'Cause look, these four laws go off about $5.5 billion somewhere. 5.5 billion kunas are not a small thing that someone could play today we'll have like this tomorrow we'll have like that. So the last change remember only VAT in tourism one month like this, in two months a completely different story.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73992	The replica matches Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73993	I'd like to sign this replica of yours if it's in the spirit of my discussions and my reflections and the thinking of the HDSSB. But what I want to say in the replica, Mr. Schucker and you had a chance, you were sitting in the same chair, a hot chair like Minister Linic today, but in 2008 it was supposed to start cutting costs harder because all the indicators said that Croatia is going into crisis and that we are getting into trouble. And we had structural problems before that. Therefore, the opportunity should be taken, so here I expect Minister Linic to take the chance entirely by the end of his term.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73994	Replica Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73995	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bubalo, one part of your argument... quacks a saying that goes about like this: "Who lies and steals, who steals that one, and who has that one." I think here already on several occasions in the assembly I think it's dangerous, you said even at one point those who robbed the Republic of Croatia need them to take a bigger press release. So they need to take everyone who's robbed. Of course one of the greatest sins of our new history is privatisation but not alone as a phenomenon, it had to be carried out, but privatisation during the Homeland War. A lot of things and it was later audited, a lot of things were laid down under the law and it wasn't moral, but we can't talk about people today who have more because the government has a responsible job, Minister Linic also. To attract investors, so they can invest, and who's going to invest? The ones that have. We used to learn that in Marxism I was at school so we learned that those who have the means to work and capital that they will invest, they will open new jobs. And it's this fight between these people that makes it easier for them to make tax reliefs and people who have less so that they end up having a steady profit. Of course you say and the opposition needs to be criticised, you're criticizing now going back to 15% and you're saying it will... They will be reduced by wages, but then it is not said that they will then increase their wages at that moment which, of course, the position has the right to criticise but of course from the plague that is watching. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And just in the end, one logical paradox maybe because of the concepts used here doesn't mean that the tax system that doesn't change is stable doesn't mean anything. The tax system is stable if it meets the requirements of public spending at a given time, that's my opinion personally. There's only that much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73996	The replica matches Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73997	Thank you very much. My colleague, I'm going to leave from the end, and that's that HDSSB was against reducing from 15% to 13%, and there's a good part of the response to the replica you just had. The tax system must therefore be stable. The Croatian tax system is currently unstable. And if we're talking here a little before and Shucker was talking about a few laws, a package of laws, and if we're wandering, if we don't have numbers, and if we don't have clear forecasts macroeconomic for the next year at least, and if we're doing rebalancing after three months after we've brought the budget, then that's the problem. And when I was talking about those who robbed the RH trail of money there is, today it's much easier through the OIB's head of tax hit the enter and see your blood count, and look how you got that blood count. Therefore, this is not at all a problem in Croatia today to detect. You saw a verdict yesterday I saw so they detected everything probably on the inside of the tax office, it is not a problem in Croatia at all, therefore the origin of the money must be known especially about the Money Laundering Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73998	Two more replicas. First, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u73999	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bubalo, I would agree with one part of your debate, but here you see, when we look back now two years from the law, some have warned that these laws would not be good, but they were being forced. So this government is giving a picture of some kind of children's game. This is how small children are played in Zagreb, I will not. I won't do it tomorrow. And you did mention agriculture, too, that agriculture must say that it was an early Croatian people, but two years ago it really worked, so I wouldn't want to be bad, but destroying that one peasant policy didn't even know which direction, it was really wandering. The Strategy for Rural Development has not been considered either, but here it is not quite finished yet. When was land-rent land-recipient reform done? Nothing. Croatia is unfortunately the largest importer of milk across the EU, the Croatian peasant is not absolutely welcome in the whole European market. You see, and when I mentioned that it was a child's game and even children respect and seek the promises that we parents make to them. Well, one of the promises was among other things to this government to the corn, it was this kind of wound that heals the doctor, not the time. And now you see people of course wanted these waiting lists to be arranged to have quality service and what's going on?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74000	Time. We don't have time to hear what's going on, because we'll hear it in response. Cresimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74001	I mean, I can't be laws I will-I won't. The government needs to know what they want as well as the citizens know what they want, and that's a better life. But I didn't understand you in the replica because you said wound or food, I think you said wound, but agriculture produces food. But what I was actually going to say is that our assessment in the HDSSB that two weeks to close the border would be hungry in Croatia. Along with this country and these systems we have in Slavonia and Baranja, and in all of Croatia, it is a shame. It shows that there was no strategic concern about our branch, which is very important especially for our region of Slavonia and Baranja, which is agriculture. And that figure that Croatia imports so much of the goods we know, we can, we want to produce and that we are not competitive for European and world markets. Well, just before you mentioned milk production and Osijek-Baranja County is, say, the largest milk producer in the Republic of Croatia. Now these are the questions that we must put before the Secretary-General and discuss our strategy in agriculture and where we see the chances and where perspectives. Because this way of agriculture management unfortunately our villages remain empty, our rural areas remain empty and there is exactly Slavonia and Baranja and Croatia to have their chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74002	The last replica, the esteemed Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74003	Thank you very much. Comrade Bubalo, it's a little weird that you're calling HNS because he's taking the stand for not introducing new taxes, and now when you introduce this contribution, he's silent. It's funny because you're actually at the two most important points, the two most important points of your exposure supporting HNS policy. The first is that there is really no more introduction of new taxes or debates on new taxes in the Republic of Croatia for what you stand for, you plead for the stability of the tax system because it is a presumption of investment and orderly business. So you're pleading for it, it's a government policy that's been adopted thanks to the firm positions of the CNS in that matter, but that doesn't bother you at least you completely agree to call the HNS. The second question that you also agree with the government's policy, which is the proposal of this Law. You are completely in agreement that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must lead a responsible policy. When faced with such a huge debt that has gone above 60%, a deficit that is far above the required 3% and these are some limits to the stability of public finances, you fully support it, and you agree but you continue to attack both the government and the HNS. So your position is very, very strange.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74004	The answer to the replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74005	So I have to answer to my colleague, Radosha, because I have a feeling that in my debate, he only heard HNS. I had a hearing for 15 minutes with my colleague, Radosh. I've said a lot when we talk about taxes or when we're talking about real estate tax or property tax. However, your frequent assurances of the Croatian public and the transmission of clear messages have not been increased. Maybe this isn't an increase in taxes by 13 to 15% today and I expected you to tell me in a replica, it's not tax hike, it's just a correction. If that correction is at an annual level of 2 billion kuna, then our entrepreneurs and our citizens will certainly feel it. Therefore, I do not support the HNS policy because it is precisely not looking at the entire Croatian citizenship and not looking at one social policy. Because to see then, in a different way, she would react to real estate tax or property tax, even if through a pilot project with tax 0,001 that in fact through the pilot project Croatia recorded what it has and that tomorrow she could react to and know what she has and what it would be compared to our citizens, the property of those who have. Therefore, it would be one clear definition of HNS. However, I do believe that in my debate I said that there was no need to reduce the amount from 15% to 13% and the HDSSB also spoke very clearly about other fiscal solutions. So it's about continuity and not one wandering like we have on this tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74006	The time has come for us to hear the SDP Club's views. They will be presented by the respected representative Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74007	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, to welcome and thank the Minister and Deputy Minister, I must admit that it is a rare case, and all of you here know that both the minister and the deputy honor this House, I know that the minister has further obligations in the DAB, and it is good that he has heard us here, and there is also the assistant minister and for the next point, she even came a little earlier. I mean, if everyone like the Ministry of Finance respected this House, I believe we'd all be happier together. Let me say on behalf of the SDP club that, a few sentences about why they'll support this law. The four main directions of government activities for exit from the crisis said at the beginning of the mandate were a) the introduction of order, b) consolidation of state finances, c) restructuring and rationalisation of the state and public sector and as a fourth measure of production, adoption and implementation of recovery and growth measures of the economy. So let me remind you here just intro of the fact that Croatia did not have it at this level two years ago and today it does. From the Strategic Investment Act, from the Investment Encouragement Act,... Laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the fiscalization project two years ago, we didn't even know what it was, and today it's perfectly normal for us all to receive an account and have everyone issue an account. The catering traffic reminds you was only, only the catering traffic was 64% higher than before the application, the question of where that tax went before. Two years ago, Croatia did not have a centralised wage accounting system, it takes us a few months to get everyone into it. The voter registration has been completed; we have 800 thousand voters less for the first time now in the EU elections, the parliament will see it. This government has initiated a procedure... Although a bunch of objects were made 10, 20, 30 years ago, but here are 821 thousand and 900 legalization requests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Despite all the opposition, we've also released the defense register, nothing terrible has happened, not one defender has been arrested anywhere, as we were predicted. It's registered, it's a government property register that we haven't had in all these years. A number of state assets have been activated. These days we are talking about particularly tourism projects in the baths. A reformed and improved system of social benefits has been abolished, the right to a pension privileged for officials, which we have already forgotten with all of this pay cuts. Privatisation of Brodosplit Shipyard has been completed, 3. Maya, Brodotrogira, etc., etc. In all of the... ministries, ministries, agencies and public enterprises, the restructuring and rationalisation of companies takes place, too far away from opening these topics, but relatively successfully done both in HZ and in the Post Office and in the Ministry of Defence and in HEP and in the waters and forests, etc. It is possible to establish simple d.o.o. So for only 10 kuna at other costs, medically assisted insemination, the possibility of protesting on Mark's square here behind my back, in front of you, 52 parafiscal intrusions have been lifted, etc., etc. It all existed two years ago. Should I speak further about the growth of entrepreneurial impulses, about the recapitalisation of HBOR, about the increase of credit through it, about the increase of the Hamag guarantees counted several times than before, etc., etc. ... It's not a subject, I agree, but it's not burning to remind a fellow MP. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is true that Croatia has been in crisis for the fifth year and in the good part of the domestic demand has therefore fallen, and that the finding of why domestic demand is falling in the good part is because both businesses and the population at that time have been quite accumulated in their debt and this deleveraging that has been spent all these years certainly affecting GDP and its height. And for sure, we all understand if we think clearly about it, that we need additional fiscal consolidation to continue the economy, because that risk exists, I say that it would continue to have access to foreign sources of funding and domestic sources of funding under acceptable conditions and in order to allow macro-economic governance in the end line. In fact, by entering the excessive deficit procedure, I think it's becoming clear to all of us. These latest changes and rebalancing supplements, which will soon be in front of us and for which the Croatian government has also received in some way support from the IMF in order to make no too strong cut in the first year, a too serious cut that would pre-negatively affect the tormented Croatian economy so that structural expenditures there are some 0.2% of GDP, but the main expenditure and it is this recovery of the health system that we partially bind to today's agenda point. So primarily from income levels is a necessary fiscal consolidation and the government was there before the dilemma of what and how to do. In any case, I think we will all agree that the insufficient fiscal consolidation I say withdrawn at this time would lead to a really questionable sustainability of public finances, and then undermine the investor's trust and all of these investment climates that we continue to talk about. All of these measures, and I say we have received these days and confirmation of international institutions, the Minister mentioned in the introduction by both the European Commission and the IMF that the Croatian authorities, here I quote one of the points of the IMF's opinion, have made commendable progress when it comes to improving the efficiency and ability of the Croatian economy. After the good consolidation devices in 2012, we moved therefore in 2013 because unfortunately I say in 2012, we had the first historical reduction in budget expenditure of 5 billion, the first therefore reduction on the bulky side and the drastic reduction, 5 billion deficit cuts. Unfortunately, in 2013, there has been a new increase in deficits, which is due to poor revenues in the state budget itself, which is due to the taking over of debt and outstanding and unpaid debts, including state hospitals and other public-owned enterprises. So I said that these measures are what we're trying to do, and I say, primarily on the income side, to put the state budget back in order, because basically at this point... those four goals, if one can be more important at this time, then it's the maintenance of stabilisation, the stabilisation of public finances. We at the SDP club might be happier if these alternative ways of filling the budget were found, we discussed it and there are some here and now recent criticisms from the opposition. It might be good to be able to tax those who have more than that famous real estate tax, from taxation of interest, something else, but about that afterwards. It is likely that one day there will be conditions for that kind of consolidation on the revenue side. In any case, as I said, a confirmation of the success of this programme if we look at the IMF and the European Commission's report in a sober manner, talks, confirmation of the success of the government's policy stands there. Objections are as often as our objections about speed, but looking at objective circumstances I think at this point in the field we can be satisfied. I started a debate about what the government did in the last two years on reforms. I must admit that the previous government, the HDZ government, had excellent economic recovery measures, but one small difference is that it was not from the paper that was well adopted, did not do much to bring about the crisis and to withdraw some more significant measures. This government has these courages, some will say a malicious system of attempts and mistakes, but I say the opinions of international institutions may best show that this government has their trust in professional terms. As I said, here is a reminder of what we are building these days through the Croatian budget and what reform measures will be further encouraged. Thus, through the reform of the pension system, through the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the reduction of pensions under the special rules fiscal impact for 2014. 303 million for 2015. 326 million. Through the transformation of the State Inspectorate, the fiscal impact of 20 million this year, 21 million next year. The negative impact on the budget of the further announced reduction of parafiscal burdens 350 million kuna is expected in the following year. Through the control of temporary incompetence for work, all of these are called small reform savings measures in this year 35 million, in 15 million. By reducing the expenditure on prescription drugs 300 million this year, 150 in the next. Through the introduction of an additional supplemental list, so basic and additional lists of aids, therefore aided for medical purposes 100 million kuna in this year, 50 million kuna in the following year. There is then a reorganisation of state institutions, institutions and the Office of State Administration, which is often discussed here, rationalisation and the MUPs and tax administrations and the Ministry of Administration and HZMO. So, all those high-end outposts, especially on the county level. All these rationalizations that sometimes get criticism from people and the environment, but they're all actually from smaller environments but all of them ultimately contribute to making the system more efficient and productive, to be more efficient for our citizens, and ultimately cheaper. I mentioned uniting social benefits 80 million kuna in the next 80 million kuna this year. We'll see what the effects of all this will be. Rationalisation and merger of agencies, therefore announced savings for this year 36 million, for the next 50 million kunas, including the merger of the Croatian Meriting Institute, the Croatian Institute for Standards, the State Institute for Measurement and the Croatian Accreditation Agency into one agency. Next, the merger of the Investment and Competitiveness Agency and the Public-private Partnership Agency into another agency, into one agency of the two. Connecting the Agency for Pressure Equipment and Attaching to the Office for Inspection Affairs at the Ministry of Economy. Attaching the Agency for the Regulation of Market, Railway Services to the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency, etc. etc. So, a lot of these little ones, that's how we say the reforms that are ahead of us. But as I have said in some previous replicas, three large amounts on the dispensary side, those burdening many of the world's budgets, Croatia's budget is, in particular, an extremely high amount of interest on public debt, which is why I say Croatia's position, which is due to the amount. You know that we're approaching 200 million kunas around which these measures by rationalizing at the end of the line, and by this measure, we're going to reduce the need for public debt by about 300 million kuna. But, well, that topic will come up on Tuesday on the agenda around the rebalancing. So the primary task is to consolidate public finances. The second is pension reform, a very significant amount of 19 billion is collected from contributions, the rest being reconciled from some other sources primarily from VAT. We know our pensions are small, we know how they got there. The full pension isn't so small but unfortunately it's a lot, I think 51 years here's looking at Mr. Shemper's average age where our people retire, i.e.. They retired. And that's why our pension system is, among other things, in such a collapse that I don't elaborate any further. But we've passed the Retirement Reform Act here, and for some future generations, we'll have these things put together. And the third large system of swallowers to say so or trigger deficits is a health system. The reduction in contributions from 15% to 13% did not affect, I say, the level of the health budget. It's what we've determined here through the budget. So his height has even grown compared to all these years. Of course, there are other costs, therefore, because the health budget was being filled. Similarly, we will determine and regardless of this increase now, so returning from 13 to 15 health budgets will take a break from that side and be slightly larger from income from contributions. But I'm also saying that we're going to have to do that again, the other incomes trying to get the health system back on track. The goal is and I hope that in the master plan for the reforms of Croatian health care we will come to the conclusion that within a very short time, the Croatian health system has stood up and is self-financed, that it can do so from the health contribution itself. In this direction there are also these announcements, so the return of the health budget from the Treasury and from the Ministry of Health to HZZO. This system used to work, some of the many technical and all the other circumstances are now much simpler. And with all the needs we're going to have, it's a rather demanding task to separate these stories, so HZZO itself works. I finally believe we're going to get a rational system. I say a self-sustainable health care system with a fundamental goal of maintaining the rights today's rights that our citizens have based on Bismarck's principle continue. Thank you very much. The SDP club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74008	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Dujomir Marasovic first picked up, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74009	Dear Mr. President, colleague Radjenovic. You said you were going to tell us what we had today with this government unlike what we didn't have two years ago. Well, I'll help you. I have 21 thoughts written here while you were saying it was part of Plan 21. But I'll tell you only four in four years of your term. First, today we have such a decline in GDP that we haven't been, what we didn't have two years ago. So we have as much deficit as we didn't have two years ago. For the third year of office, we have about 400,000 unemployed we didn't have two years ago. And we have a very bad government, which we didn't have two years ago. And that's four years from now, I'm gonna stay at these four points. And as for the IMF you are calling upon for him to commend you, beware of these praises. Nowhere in the IMF has the IMF's mind come out of the crisis, it has gone out with efforts of domestic mind, muscle and everything else, so neither will Croatia. They design their own advice just to keep you on the surface and to suck your debts, or interest on debts, and nothing else interests them. Take care of what you have been advised to introduce property tax because it will sink even deeper in Croatia. It's the same thing as being advised to carry ice to the North Pole when you go there on a trip. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74010	Igor Radjenović corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74011	Thank you. ... The property tax has most countries, not most almost all EU countries, so I see no reason why Croatia should not have it either. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] You were talking about GDP and deficits. The biggest deficit drop, Mr. Marasovicu, was 2009. 6.9%. First, and I said that even now in my debate, the first nominal drop in budget expenditure 2012. The government of Zoran Milanovic, a nominal drop in expenditure and a reduction in deficits. The main problem this year and last year's budget, the main problem of deficits is health care, the system from which you come, and the recovery of healthcare debts from previous years. As for these historical comparisons, we have recently received before the Committee on the Economy delegation of the Slovenian Parliament Committee of the National Assembly and we have made one analysis of the GDP of Croatia and Slovenia for the past 10 years. I have, regardless of all the circumstances, their entry into the EU, our governments the two three that have changed, their three, four governments, that GDP was very close within one percent, both the growth and the declines of both budgets. What am I saying? That small countries like ours depend heavily on international circumstances, of course, depending on the measures taken by the local government. But then I must say that this ratio of average GDP growth in the EU and growth in Croatia has never been at a nearer level. With all these problems we have and the decline we have in the past year, 1% of Croatia's average GDP has never been closer to the EU average GDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74012	New replica, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74013	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You gave us a report on the work of the government, in short summary lines. Although I expected to realistically say on behalf of the ruling club we tried, we failed, and now we have to do what's real, normally we have to return the separation rate to 15%. Now that I'm listening to you here and your reports, then I'm asking myself if we live in the same country, in the same country. From your angle and your exposure it looks like everything's great, and from my low, ordinary human appearance it looks quite different. I'd say that in principle, everything you've listed hasn't produced fruit and that I think it's even the opposite of you. I think the government is one big idealessness and one disorganization, and that's one single result, and that's too bad for the citizens. I'm asking a question, since you've talked very little about what we're talking about here today, which is an increase in the rate of separation for health insurance, have you tried to think about some new ideas? Did you maybe try to find some new sources of funds? Have you perhaps tried to think about sources that could satisfy both citizens and businessmen in a joint separation that would be positive isolation, which would be, for example, based on consumption rather than just taxation? I really don't know why we're always going in this repressive part of sucking up a little of the people instead of going for consumption and looking for a way out.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74014	Igor Radjenović corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74015	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Hrg, I didn't say that everything was great, but I said that we have been falling for 5.6 years and that this decline is 1% in the previous year, but never to say that the average GDP was no closer to the EU average GDP and that we as a small country, and you will agree that we are a small country with one hundred inhabitants of the EU, 0.3% of their GDP, that we depend heavily on these relations. You say nothing is real and normal. Well, I think it's very real and normal for you to react in a crisis and this government to react with its measures. I tried at the beginning, and here I filled out all 15 minutes to say what the government had done in these two first years and what it was planning for the rest of the so far to announce for the rest of its term of office. And also announced by Minister Linic, in fact, in the long term i.e. Multi-annual projection of fiscal consolidation. What was now necessary, so between these four basic objectives and what we came up with, and also because of the behaviour of the previous governments in which your party participated, that in the excessive deficit procedure we simply need to achieve a gradual reduction in GDP and that, in accordance with the recommendations and recommendations, we must. in line with the IMF and the recommendations of the European Commission not to make this a sudden cut of consumption and cut, so immediately in the first year on the bulky side, because this would lead us into a chain of wheels and that will be said to you by all economists in this respect in an even greater economic downturn. Consolidation of the budget now on the revenue side, yes. Nobody's happy, I said in my debate, that we might be happier if we had conditions on the income side for other taxes like all or all of Western Europe's countries, but I'm saying about that afterwards. One day we'll get those conditions. The main objective now is fiscal consolidation to restore trust or survive the trust of international institutions and potential investors, and this goal is filled with rebalancing. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74016	Follow the replica of Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74017	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, dear fellow Radjenovic, after you've read everything or said what this government has done in these two years, I'm even more concerned now, we're all worried, and now that we've heard everything the government has done successfully these two years, we have to be even more concerned because the results are devastating, the economy is failing, the number of unemployed is growing, there is no investment. But cynicism aside, it's really not easy to defend contemplation and hopelessness and a completely missed economic policy of the current government. One thing I have to do at the beginning to correct you is, we're not in recession for five years, 2011. Croatia came out of recession, two quarters of economic growth, followed by the second and third hints of economic recovery and the only wrong economic policy and the wrong moves of the current government have brought us back now not into recession but into depression. We warned you in this assembly two years ago, don't lower your health contribution and raise your VAT. For two years, we've been hearing from the government that here she has relieved the economy through the release of a health contribution. Does this mean now that it will lower the tax burden, whether it will lower the VAT on this government, or actually again after two years of returning health contributions to 15% again destroying thousands of jobs, refusing a new investment and actually pushing us deeper into economic downturn? I think we all know that fiscal consolidation, I'm sure no matter who it is and what life experience and work experience it has in this assembly but we need to know and the public knows that fiscal consolidation does not exist without economic growth or without structural reforms, or, or, or, and. One actually pushes another. Structural serious reforms in these two years are not available unless we are talking about outsourcing and cleaning women and cooks and what has been said over the past few months and are sold under some kind of structural reform. But to conclude, the question is actually very simple. Are we finally going to see what tax redundancy is and whether this government has any idea or only by announcing new taxes, I don't know where it's from, for 2016, taking the obligation to introduce new taxes will continue to destroy the Croatian economy, close thousands of jobs and actually push investment into some countries and not in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74018	Reply to the replica Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74019	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you, Mr Milosevic, that without economic growth and structural reforms, there is no fiscal consolidation and all the devices that make up this government have just done it in this direction and that is why I mentioned it. Now we can get together about it. I'm telling you that these measures were not to make the situation in numbers and the figures of GDP far worse. So the HDZ government you say is executively over a quarter, we know what's cyclical and what's not. Not one year in the last four years has therefore been positive, in the last three years of HDZ, all of them have been in a deep minus, the largest minus 2009. If you listened to me carefully, I also commended in fact the economic programme of HDZ, which is the government in which you, if I am not mistaken, participated and the Government of Ms. Kosor brought before the end of my previous term, and this economic programme is super, one, one little problem we have, that you in this field, will probably be scared for various reasons, that I am not speculating about it right now. You couldn't spend it in any way. And for that reason, our situation was what it was. I don't know what else to say to you except that we will continue to endure in efforts to disburse the Croatian economy on one hand, to introduce order, I think that here I spent more than 15 minutes just the power to touch some points that were simply not in our vocabulary two years ago, and that this government in this respect is on the right track to make this country better and more normal. The figures so far are not what they would have wanted but I will repeat the figures have never been closer to the EU average and as much as we have imagined that we are large and strong, we depend heavily on developments in the economic market, by entering the EU even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74020	We'll hear the replica of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74021	Thank you very much. When it comes to getting out of the crisis during HDZ, we are not, according to Mr. Sanader's statement, in fact, in a crisis. He said that the crisis would only sober us up, so that's how he defined it. But what I wanted to say about this 2.5-year rule of yours and when you talked about the achievements and achievements of your Kukuriku coalition, you said it was also the establishment of simple d.o.o., and then the possibility of demonstrations on Mark's square unlike before, but you didn't say some other things. Namely, your government's main goal is strategic investment and investment in general in Croatia. So I would like that if you could now praise in the replica what a strategic investment is and what a strategic investor has invested in Croatia as much money as it is for strategic investment. On the other hand, on the other hand, you ordered public companies to invest, and then the Croatian Railway has double paid for the maintenance of slope trains, one under the agreement to revitalise slope trains 20 million kuna and the other contract on ongoing maintenance, so on 15.4.2013, and the contract lasted until 15.3.2013, and these things are done to get 40 million kuna out of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for what? So, fictitious conclusion of the contract and it will one day come like this all that was on yesterday, I'm afraid, on the benches of the courts. Thus, Djuro Djakovic, Slavonski Brod, a company that entered healthy at the time of your time, is now 65 million on paper lost and people who understand each other say 100 million kuna. So where are they, so normally we can't go forward and we need to raise taxes and I don't know what to do with tax policy when this is how public enterprises or enterprises in majority state-owned like Djuro Djakovic, such as Railways, such as HEP etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74022	Igor Radjenović corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74023	Thank you, Vice President. And unlike you, my colleague Grubisic, I think that public enterprises and in general, so public property and associations, ministries and the whole, so also property through the State Office for State Property Management is managed far better than before. Okay, we can talk about that might be even better, but that's the question of whether little steps are progressing or not, I think that's where we're progressing. Could we objectively do better? I don't know, looking outside, I think that, but I'm saying, a lot of the circumstances of colleagues who work every day in that field, shows that things aren't that simple because I often use that parable when you have a tanker with thousands of tons of oil through some ocean or sea, so when you want to turn that tanker around, you change its direction, that it's still a long, long mile in one direction, so that at one point it turns in the right direction. As for the situation, you started with a replica that the former HDZ prime minister said the crisis wouldn't hurt us. Yes, it was an irresponsible statement at the time, but it was also the only statement from the ruling party, unfortunately it wasn't for a long time, and we have ignored the situation for years, and only with the change and departure of that gentleman things have changed, but I say, we haven't done enough, we've done a lot to detect the problem, but I'm going to commend again this programme of economic recovery of HDZ which unfortunately hasn't been implemented. And that's that fundamental difference between the left and right of this assembly and the left and right of government. That the left government and wants and tries and does everything to... change..., the right one is more powerful in demagogy. I'd say a lot more, but I don't have time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74024	Replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74025	Dear counterpart Radjenovic, in his debate, I am pleased that all three present vice presidents of the Parliament, my favorites, Mr Batinic, Mrs Zgrebec and Mr Stazic were present. You didn't actually talk about the subject, you didn't say a single sentence. I've been warned at least a hundred times when I speak outside the subject, but I agree with your debate, I just warned the vice presidents that they have the same... You said a pretty good restructuring of HH was done. Give me one indication that anything on HZ has moved, except that it will crack the affair very quickly because the DORH will begin to deal with the restructuring of railways that is being done there. That's all I'm telling you, and we're going to be... new affairs in which many who are at the top of the government will be involved. This government, I've heard it several times, is running a responsible policy. What are the effects of this responsible policy? At least one effect say or it's irrelevant how citizens live. So what does the government serve? That the government of the state would be better for the citizens, and the citizens are getting worse and worse. All that you've listed is empty, all the pots, empty bullets. Nothing started in Croatia. You said when you talked about taxing the rich, taxing the interest, you said one sentence I can't understand. About that, then. I hope there's going to be a condition someday. When? When does HDZ come to power? Then there will be conditions. So are you a left-handed woman who should be taxing the rich? Or have you forgotten what the left is? About that, then. So we won't, when it's three years and eight months, then we'll discuss it. It'll be another hoax. So all you've been saying is the pots, and most of the sentence warns that you're going to talk about taxing the rich.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74026	Thank you. Replication response, Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74027	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I see you didn't listen to me very closely because you said that I didn't talk too much about it, and then you used the whole replica right on that field because that's the topic, so raising the revenue side and the different sources of income on that side. I was just saying that at this point and that it's also recommendations and contracts of international institutions, that we don't go very far into cuts in, I say, the three-year excessive deficit procedure, that we don't go into harsh cuts... so we don't, that we don't lack that economy to the end, and that we take revenue where we can make it, to get into these 4.5%. And here I mentioned a common tax on real estate and interest tax, so that I and my colleagues from the SDP club would be happier if the work was released and the burden and financing of health and all others would be transferred to the rich. When I talked about it, then, I primarily thought about real estate tax because you know well that conditions have to be obtained from that side, many conditions for them to be able to, in order for that budget to be implemented in a quality way. And land books and registers, etc., etc. For 10 years, Slovenia tried to introduce the tax, so it eventually introduced it halfway, only to large investments and so on. So much for that, then. As far as HZ is concerned, I think there's been a lot of work done in this area about improving the work of the companies themselves. HH infrastructure has big investments today. He mentioned counterpart Grubisic before me that Djuro Djakovic was in trouble. We had the same company in Zagreb,... which has twice the salary of..., from Đura Djakovic, and is doing practically the same job that the government has subsidized for years. With the great criticism we have spent bankruptcy over this company, today it is a successful company, does not work the same number of workers as before, but works and manages to sell products that produce. Therefore, the withdrawal of moves apparently does not have its effects for a short time, it must give them in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74028	Replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74029	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Rajedinović, a few facts, why? Because when you start from the wrong assumption then... to what we're discussing today. First, the 2008 deficit, 0.8% or 2 billion 700. The other thing is, no one said that the economic crisis didn't start, financially. If in the 10th month of 2008, you raise the guaranteed savings to Croatian citizens to 400 thousand kuna, so is it not clear that the whole world is shaking and that is how you want to secure it. What you were supposed to say was that the crisis was supposed to be, the crisis was so that the banking and financial sectors would crash that people would run into banks then we'd be better off, that's it. The second thing is that in 2012, the biggest budget cuts were made. In the 4th month 2009, the budget's rebalance was reduced by 8 billion kuna. That's it. The 4th thing that was a false economic recovery program was adopted in the 4th month 2010, its result was seen in the 2nd and 3rd quarter of 2011 when we had positive economic growth, and in 2011 the overall trend was minus 0.2%. And you're now saying that you inherited that with all that you did, you came to an economic downturn of 2% in 2012 and in 2013 to an economic downturn of 1%. So that's the biggest problem of all of this that we're discussing today not admitting and not accepting facts, comparing pears and apples because these things if you want to compare then you have to methodologically agree on how you're going to do it. All the other things are political debates, everything else is running away from responsibility, and everything else brings us to where we are today, and that's that two years ago we first cut our contributions, we return them today, and we don't want to admit why this is happening to us. When we're ready to do that, then we'll talk about the same things. Unfortunately, it's said that someone reduced this or that in 2009 in the fourth month the budget cuts of 8 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74030	Time. Answer Igor Radjenović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74031	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, he objected to my colleague Vuksic that you didn't warn me when I said I wasn't talking about it, and now you've missed your colleague Schuker speaking a good part of his replica about my replicas, not what I was saying there, but let's take that as an introduction to the subject. I'm trying to deal with and talk about the numbers that are so I don't use as well as your colleague Milosevic 0% at the level of statistical errors exiting the recession and call it exiting the recession. That year the economic downturn was also, you didn't hear from me say that I'm saying that industrial production grew in January because I'm aware that in one month, and that data is positive, etc. whether one month can't be a sufficient indicator of trends in the economy and exactly you and I know that these trends react more in the long term than can be seen in the short term. I didn't tell the truth that this government has cut the budget the most, so the 2012 budget proposal was a 5 billion-dollar contraction on the flat side. Your proposal was a rebalancing in the 4th month of 2009. Okay. I was talking about the draft budget, and you didn't tell the truth to make it easier, but you can't say that my statement wasn't right because I was talking about the draft budget. But also in 2009 when you made such a strong contraction on the bulky side, you had a 6.9% decline in GDP. And one of the lessons of this government is not to make such a strong contraction on the bulky side but only to do 0.2 structurally this year, you understand very well, and by proposing this bill strengthens the income side just so that we don't kill the economy too hard and too hard to spend overnight. The whole story will be conducted through these three years, through the excessive deficit procedure, and I believe that we will enter into these criteria that Mr. Lesar was telling nicely that they are obviously determined by some... counselors that I still don't trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74032	The last replica of the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74033	Thank you very much. You mentioned a programme of economic recovery that was adopted in 2010, it was the government programme of the coalition government, which was an agreement on a major project. And I answered because you said no measures were taken. In fact, the 2010 economic recovery programme envisaged three groups of measures. One group was measures by the end of 2010, the other until EU entry and the third group of measures were long-term. All of them can still be today I'm thinking about putting them on the table and I can be the program of any government. As far as the measures are concerned by the end of 2011 so until the parliamentary elections, they have all been carried out. So the beginning of the project, for example, is a two-for-one job, the abolition of the crisis tax, the adoption of the Fiscal Responsibility Act and many others. One is not, these are changes to the Labour Act, you know what happened to it. And today we also have an unusual situation, so those who were against it now are for, those who were against it, that's because in such a constellation where decisions and directions change, given whether we're in opposition or we're in power, they certainly can't lead to a consensus on possible changes to the labour law. And today I have mentioned that all the agencies that have reduced our rating have been talking about the rigidity of Croatian labour legislation. And finally that 2011. Yes, there were no rebalances in that year and the fact that we then included in the budget the new 4 billion commitments, which still says there was some kind of program and some work. And I'm experiencing your findings and here's the program of economic recovery and as a compliment to me who led the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74034	Time. We will also hear a reply to the replica, Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74035	Thank you very much, Vice President. The responsibility towards decision-making and this principle of politics is a common topic of both my discussions here and at the plenary session and at committee meetings. And I am quite often the one calling for consensus and calling for quality and good suggestions to come from the other side of the political stage. So I think I'm even resolute at the last session of Ms. Martina Daliæ when I call on it, say what measures you would take I can't remember about which law, so say something concrete in that direction. Yeah, I'm glad we recognized it, and here I am going to do it again, the economic measures program was good. I'm glad you took that as a commendation because it really was a commendation, you put an obvious and personal lot of effort there, but his dynamics as well as anything in politics at least looking outside were slightly weaker. You yourself said the first set of measures until 2011, the second one until EU entry, and the third one later. I'm sorry that you personally didn't have any more time than in the context that you lost the election in 2011, but maybe if you'd come to the head of that government earlier, maybe that program would have some better dynamics because I say, every government will inherit the next government and it has to take responsibility from that side. As I say, here is now that I have already taken over the discussion because this is the last one, so I can make a little crackdown, as the president of your former party and today's HDZ parties is not ready to take responsibility as today's president, at least according to his statements yesterday's first-degree ruling process, about his not being concerned, and that these are some quite anti-Croatian elements that have reached a judicial ruling. Perhaps it is the only point that brings together this existing coalition gathered around the HDZ and HDZ, which is that they do not recognise the institutions of the Croatian rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74036	I'm advertising a break now. We'll continue at 3 p.m. by presenting the HNS and Jose Radosh clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74037	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. On behalf of the HNS club, Jozo Radosh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74038	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister. Here, this morning there was a lot of talk in the morning about this law, in fact everyone agrees that some big dispute over this measure is gone, it was more a reflection of what it was, whether it was meant to be, what the effects were. But, therefore, some great challenge to the very concrete of this law, namely its most important content, which was an increase in health insurance contributions from 13% to 15%. So, more than 2 years ago, the government decided to encourage development, easier business of the economy, competitiveness of the Croatian economy, thereby employment, GDP growth, to reduce the rate of contribution by 2%, and here in terms of impact, these measures were quite the opposite actually, quite the opposite attitudes. In fact, one of the colleagues said that the measure did not produce any of these results, the expected results in terms of GDP increases, employment increases, etc., and the government itself said very frankly and very openly that the measure did not deliver expected results in terms of GDP increases, deficit cuts and employment increases. What was the effect of this measure on the Croatian economy? Of course it remains for analysts, more or less, for politicians, they will argue that it suits whom, but it could not be expected from this measure to reduce the deficit, this measure is in fact quite the opposite of its nature from the deficit reduction, this measure if it is not followed by anything else, it actually de facto means, directly means the increase in deficits, but this measure obviously did not lead to an increase in GDP, an increase in employment and that is, of course, the question of objective measurement of this measure. One of his fellow MPs said that this measure probably contributed to companies, let businesses survive, and that is certainly true. It has made it possible to stabilise in some companies, to breathe easier, to create stable business reserves, and thus certainly had a positive impact, but obviously it was not strong enough to stand alone without support from other measures, the overall climate in society, the investment climate, benefits, international relations, etc. lead to these two higher targets, which is an increase in GDP and an increase in employment in the Republic of Croatia. However, this measure was a result of the brave and very clear intentions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to facilitate the business of Croatian companies, and this measure must have obtained positive results. Of course, not making all this work here, and talking to employers, that's their view, that it was easier for them to do business, that they could save some jobs, but that this measure wasn't enough to increase investment, and I think that measure was in this time when it played a positive role. In this regard, of course, since the health care of these 13% is insufficient, this health care business was covered by the Croatian budget, and in this sense it is not, it is just an ordinary financial operation. After two-and-a-half years after the decision to detached HZZO from the budget, so it has an independent business and monitoring of that business, the government decided to withdraw that measure and to increase it from 13% to 15% for HZZO. In doing so, the entire debate here was on how much HZZO debt the minister, the former health minister at all, did not blink at all, without justifying it by saying that the debt is 4.6 billion kuna at the end of 2011 as though it were in itself commendable. Since 2000, and before that, the debts of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute amount to between 3 and 5 billion kunas and each minister and each government alone essentially rescinds that debt, not one of them so far, have tried to fully cover that debt, this government has done so and is part of the increase in the deficit that we are talking about. As far as health care is concerned, this is of course not a health policy, this is a financial policy. The one with all of our major ministers, especially those who have led the Ministry of Health or Health, are essentially a self-restraint and more or less the retention of that system in the congested frameworks. We have not actually defined what level of health care as mandatory health insurance we can guarantee our citizens rather than guarantee much more than we can achieve. And then these side events occur like waiting lists, etc., with that question, in fact, our health administrations have not faced at all in recent years. We haven't defined what the relationship between private and public health is. Private and public health should be subject to some fruitful positive competitiveness to complement and encourage each other to work on equal terms and quality. Private health care in the Republic of Croatia for the last 15 years was, in fact, only a lever, a polygon for sucking value from public health, it is both in scope and in its place insufficiently developed. And in particular, we haven't developed a system of higher levels of health care for more money. So our health system is more or less all these years in the same framework and with the same profile as it has been so far and that is a question that is actually a key issue when we talk about health and health policy. But I repeat, this is not a law that speaks of what health care is, at least it can be spoken of, but it is only a matter of financing that health care without ambition to define whether our rate is sufficient, whether it meets the declared need for compulsory health care because we have never defined it either. So these big questions are actually a health care system just ahead of us. In conditions where the Republic of Croatia is definitely in a position with its decision and part or part of it due to membership in the European Union that it can no longer hide and re-write its financial obligations when we are faced with more than 60% of the debt and when we are faced with an excessive deficit procedure this was an inevitable move. The government of the Republic of Croatia inherited a debt at this level that without the growth of gross social product absolutely nothing can be done. If you want to pay off the debt then you have to go into the deficit and cover the deficit again with a new debt. And we, with that level of duty that we inherited, have entered a spiral that can be solved only or drastically by reducing consumption, which the government has done only in the first step to stop the growth of consumption but not by its drastic reduction or, of course, a significant increase in income that has not happened. In such circumstances, the government has decided on this move, the only possible. It's not a matter of these or those policies, it's a matter of bare maintenance of the state budget. They say colleagues, so you don't take care of social policy, about pension policy, so if there's a budget crash, then there's no policy left, no social policy, no education policy, no pension policy. So this is a necessary move to get into a situation at all so that we can maintain public finances and that is why the Club of HNS Representatives supports this proposal. Of course, by hoping that all the structural measures taken and already taken by the government would lead to the only truly acceptable and welcome solution to get out of this spiral of debt and deficits, which is an increase in the gross social product, i.e. an increase in the number of employment to be monitored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74039	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74040	Thank you very much. Comrade Rados, it has been said that the government, if it wants to repay the debt, will have to make a deficit. One totally wrong definition because that debt was already in the deficit and has already been included in the total public debt. So paying off the debt is not a new deficit. A new deficit may be a potential difference in interest if you are in debt at an unfavourable interest rate. Therefore, in such a way of looking then leads us to a debate that will not lead us anywhere. Also when we talk termologically about what's long, which isn't long, because in healthcare you have one phenomenon. They had one amount they called the rers and if it didn't increase next year then they didn't have a public debt increase. However, you have something debt and maturity and no commitment. And that in health care needs to be clarified. And I sincerely hope that now that there is a budget rebalancing that then the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health will give us the amount of debt in health at this point, that we finally know that we are not fighting here in this assembly. The second thing, the government did not settle debts in health care in 2012-2013, it is seen from this budget rebalance because at the position of the HZZO they have two positions, one debt from previous years, I think it is about a billion and 300, a billion and 400 million, and the same or slightly smaller amount is for the debt of the previous year. So if the debt was settled last year then I don't know what the debt from the previous year means. Another thing, which means to settle debts from the previous year, and in the current year to go back to creating debt. This means that we are simply unable to secure enough resources because already in 2014 we are being dragged into a new debt that will have to be recovered again in some other moments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74041	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74042	Well, maybe one of the problems of fellow Shucker, where we are, is that financiers always find ways not to see things the right way but to book and balance is more important than real relationships. In fact, you agree with me that the debt to pay back is the principal and interest debt and that the debt depends on the state's revenues. Of course it depends if and partly of course on your duties and if you haven't reduced your expenditure enough, you'll have to pay back the debt in part and thus increase the deficit. To cover the deficit, you need to re-indebt. It's very logical, it's the spiral that we're in, and you can call it as a former finance minister differently, but that's how we find ourselves in the position that in that spiral of debt and deficit we went beyond the framework that can be solved only or drastically by reducing spending because we have to pay back, and that's what we'll agree on, that's probably the only question we agree on, or a significant increase in income that hasn't happened either. Therefore, the debt is logical, very natural, close to the budget, except in some strange booking techniques. As for the debt of health care for this and last year, apparently the government did something, it recovered the debt for the previous years, but apparently it did not hit the costs of the health system and thus generated a new debt every year. What's ahead of us is to define the consumption of the health system and balance incomes so that we don't re-create every new debt. With these circumstances, you're relieving the debt this year, the next year a new debt appears to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74043	Thank you. Next replica Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74044	Dear fellow Radosh, I'm going to start a little bit of this replica of yours, a sentence that you said debt must be returned, I suppose we agree, that's where you thought of Mr. Shucker. However, the last 10 years have written... a study, published several books, economists and Nobel laureates and published in Croatia, meaning in the Croatian language which wonders whether the debt should be paid back. So it's not like a knife to cut off that sentence of yours, and that's only right because the question is how did the countries end up in debt, which are interest, but this is not for replication. We can't discuss this in a replica. I think you were talking at the very beginning about whether the reduction from 15 to 13% or the increase from 13% to 15% in health care is a simple accounting operation. I don't think it's a simple accounting operation, so what didn't happen in the health care system will be compensated from the budget because those billions didn't go into the budget. It's a budget hole. It would have been much smaller if investments had been launched as promised to launch investments, that new jobs would be opened because as soon as investments were opened... they were launched, then they would also open new jobs and neither would health care. So one wrong decision has been made, which is far-reaching and painful, and now we feel, we're going to feel for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74045	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74046	Well, colleague Vuksic, I believe there are theories about whether debt should be paid back or not, but if the country wants to preserve its reputation and its normal functioning then there is no such question. The issue is being raised for those countries that have fallen so deeply that perhaps by not returning the debt and its write-off come into a more favourable position, but I hope that Croatia is not on that path, and none of our governments have thought so far about not paying back the debt because it would actually mean a breakdown of the country and then what happens after that. We're not on the road yet, so I understand the theory, but the fact that Croatia's happiness is still not current. When I said that this surgery to increase and reduce contributions to the health system is a simple mathematical operation, it's mostly because if we didn't have those 15% but 13% then we compensated the difference from the budget from other tax revenues. Therefore, for the health system it is largely neutral but not neutral about the amount of that money. So about 2.5 billion kuna is working, and it is not neutral of the effects it has had to facilitate business operations in the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, there is no agreement it is difficult to measure, but I am convinced and in talking to entrepreneurs I have received confirmation of this belief that this measure has been of great benefit to them because it has made it easier for them to operate, stabilise finances, create stable reserves. But unfortunately, it wasn't enough for investment and growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74047	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74048	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy, Madam Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. Well, there's not much of us here, although I would call this law quite controversial for the reason it was passed under one condition. I'll read only, quote Mr. Lalovec. He was then giving an explanation on behalf of the government and four laws are in the package explained. I fully agree with this argument. He says tax reform is the first pillar of the overall reform, and it does not mean much to itself unless we attract and start investments, and unless we implement structural reforms. And this is the answer to why it's going to change this law. Because if this had happened then we wouldn't be in the situation we're in. So let's not get too smart and wise. And just this is a criticism to the government not the Ministry of Finance. Because those who had to undertake certain reforms to achieve a decrease on the spending side at the same time in the release of investment space would have increased tax revenue based on existing rates and then the result would be slightly different. So there was no excessive policy because these four laws, if we look at them together, are heavy somewhere around five and a half billion kunas. So raising the VAT rate by two percentage points is somewhere at a level of 2 billion and 700, 2 billion and 800, so there's some exhibition in the change of class, in taxation income tax in principle, all the wages over 5000 are burdened with higher taxes. Also, the introduction of a capital gains tax and the release from reinvestment also resulted in a certain overflow of funds. But what it is, it makes this law controversial. So all the time it's been said that the economy has been given 2 billion and 400 a year or in 2 years about 4 billion. However, when you look at the effect of this and that the businessmen did not recognize it, the intention of the legislator was obviously missed. Why? The average gross salary in Croatia is about 6,6 and a half thousand kuna, for example, although it is unfortunately smaller for this part. But let's say it's 6,000 kuna. The health contribution this reduction is 2% to you 120 kuna times 12 months it's 1440 kuna. And now colleagues and colleagues how many businesses in Croatia do we have in Croatia that have over 20 or 30 or 50 employees? For 50 employees, that's 70,000 kuna. Tell me, what can anyone who has 50 employees do with 70,000 kuna? He can't do anything. And you're one amount of 2 billion and 400 when you distribute a few hundred thousand entities that are bonds of health contributions because they hire someone in principle you get nothing. But when you have it together, then those two billion and four hundred look a lot. So what was this law supposed to bring? It was meant to bring down labour prices, increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, drop in unemployment and growth in gross domestic product. That's what was said when the law was passed. None of that law has been achieved. But something happened that no one here wanted to talk about today because everyone's dealing with some kind of big policy. With this reduction in contributions over the past two years, the Croatian state has had to charge an additional 4 billion kuna with a deadline of 8 or 10 years. This assignment was at an interest rate of 6.25%, let's take 6 because it'll be easier for us to count and count for 8 years. 4 billion times 6 is 240 million times 8 years. It is 2 billion kuna for you this one missed exhibition will cost the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia. And that's the only truth. All this other stuff is stories for little kids, nothing else. So we had to borrow 4 billion kunas from the base of this experiment, we had to. Because otherwise they wouldn't have covered all this together for cover. However, if we had adhered to the Fiscal Responsibility Act and that's what I said to the Minister this morning and he said that he would make it right and I hope he will, that these proposals of the law have their own assessment of the fiscal impact that would happen probably wouldn't have happened. However, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to warn you of something else. In two or three months, we are waiting for a new budget rebalance in which the part relating to the Croatian Health Insurance Institute will have to be singled out from the position of the Ministry of Health. Now look. The revenue of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance under applicable rules is revenue from health contributions and revenue from contributions to those accidents at work, etc. That's about 650 million, you know we started that office. And you still have the provisions of the Health Act to comply with health insurance obligations from the state budget, so those persons who are not entitled to health insurance based on employment or something else. So that amount according to existing legislation is about 5 and a half billion kuna to you. That 5 and a half billion kuna will have to be secured in the state budget. This contribution will raise 19 billion kuna, 20. So the health budget is going to be 25 billion kuna. Or the Government intends to change that article which must cover health insurance costs for those who, on no basis, have the right to health insurance, so that amount will look different. And maybe it would be better if, given that the most practical tax procedure was this that we had in this budget rebalancing, among other things, a proposal in which HZZO would be singled out if such a decision had already been made that it would be 1.07. then it had to be proposed by this budget rebalance so as to see in principle what it means for taxpayers, because you simply have to pay the debts and you paid them like this or you paid them like that. What happened to us in health care? So, in health care, we were assured that with a billion and 100 million kuna, the county hospitals would be rehabilitated. At the end of that billion and 100 million did not even 50 million end up in county hospitals. The project was practically hanging in the air. 2012 and 2013 assures us that healthcare debts from previous years are being recovered. So now one elemental question is asked, if the overall health budget has not increased significantly, it has increased perhaps or decreased by 100 million or 200 million, and it is said that it has been created annually minus 2.3 billion kuna, then it is not clear to me if you cover the debt, and you have not secured the larger funds or you have not brought the system into a situation that works cheaper as you intend to operate next year if you have not increased the incomes of the HZZ. an institution that... Health services? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, that's an elementary question, not what my colleague Rados says in bookkeeping. It's a question of life. This is not such a question or a question, because if you are sick or one of your family is sick and you are willing to pay for this kind of medical exhibition that you are having at that time, you have to wait for 300 or 400 days, then it's no big deal, and then you're willing to pay, I don't know how much you can look at yourself and you can see what's going on with your health. And precisely because of this sensitivity, so what we're talking about, I think we've easily approached the debate on this subject, that we've gone over lightly that this one misjudgement and evaluation will ultimately cost us about 2 billion kunas based on paid interest because we've had to charge ourselves for this amount to cover it over the past year. Unfortunately, those effects didn't happen. We have a decline in GDP today, we have a rise in employment, and the biggest tragedy with the growth of unemployment we have a decrease in employment. We have enormous public debt growth and we have enormous deficit growth. The Croatian state has never had such a high deficit. And colleagues and colleagues who are the most dangerous in the deficits in 2014? It is exclusively the result of business events that take place in 2014. We can say that shipbuilding was added in 2011, so it's so high but that year it shouldn't have been in charge of that amount and repaying that debt to shipbuilding but as it comes, it will come back. It's just that accounting showed up the way it is. So to conclude, unfortunately, when it comes to these major tax reforms, then it simply cannot happen that the laws change in two years several times because it creates one great uncertainty and regardless of what we were against is a 15 to 13% reduction because we want to clearly point to the failed policy of this government we will be against this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74049	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74050	Dear fellow Shuker, that sentence I told you, or we told you to the ones you're saying, it's getting on our nerves, and it's no use to us. Two years ago, we raised the bill against the reduction by 2 index points. What you said in your debate, you explained the debate, you relied on Mr. Radosh and I fully agree with you when you said it was not an ordinary administrative measure. Four billion are missing. We're four billion out like you said to be in charge. And now the question is, who's going to pay for it? Some other generations who will repay their debts. Not maybe that one, some other debt. The country is more in charge of 4 billion kunas that should not have been owed to the 4 billion. And now that that's being interpreted, all the time today from the position of the government is trying to tell us, they don't even say forgive us for misjudged us. No, this government is responsible for politics. That's what it's called. They are responsible for the 4 billion debts they will pay not for them but for generations behind them. This means responsible policy, fiscal policy. Who's gonna be in charge of those debts? Why is such a progress, why has no analysis ever been made when it has been reduced but just said no, it will live after this reduction will liven the economy. Now it didn't happen and someone said yes, we were wrong, nothing else. No, it's not wrong, it's done well and it's good when it's in debt because, as he says before, only non-serious countries don't pay back their debts. Well, that's not why it's not, Argentina's, say, unserious that got away with it, so Iceland's unserious and Brazil's unserious. It does not exist only in theory, in practice there are and debt write-offs and debt negotiations are negotiated. Only countries that have a weak mind and a bad policy think they have to pay everything back.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74051	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74052	Comrade Vuksic, I'm sorry you made a mistake by 50%. It's not a debt that's grown by 4 but by 6, because you still have 2 billion interest. And now remember that story about us interest costs growing because someone's something... The interest has already been included. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, every year since this year it is somewhere around 240 million at the rate of interest costs is based on this experiment. And that's a fact. So this experiment costs us six billion kunas that if we had left no economics would have cried because this measure hadn't been applied. I've been doing experiments on, so calculations, simulations on two large companies that have over 20,000 employees. And when we take what's rightfully taken from them based on VAT, pre-taxing, etc. The fact that their tax rates have been increased, in fact, those accounting classes have been reduced at a certain rate, and some that have not been included in the price increase, but have passed this on this year to the cost of this own income and how much less they have to pay their health contributions, then all these companies on average are 150, 200 million in the final balance, looking at the minus. However, you remember how they boasted that they reduced the position on salaries in 2012 and you know how much this measure applies to 2012 over 300 million kuna and somewhere around 500 million kunas apply to 2013 and that is basically a reduction in the wage mass. You know what? The great people will always know the truth because every chick comes into a wheelchair, and so on, you can't talk like this, when you see what's going on, because if in the budget rebalancing this year 240 million will have to be provided because of the increase in the contribution then also in the total amount of salary funds in 2012, 2013 reduced this amount for this amount which has been reduced and in principle the greatest benefit of this measure was the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because with that basis in the past two years would have a smaller deficit somewhere around 750 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74053	Thank you. Next line, Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74054	On several occasions, you are talking about the government's 4 billion kuna debt, and you forget that the external debt of the Republic of Croatia, or the debt of the Republic of Croatia, has increased from 18 billion euros to 43 billion euros, we are talking about a total debt of the Republic of Croatia not a public debt. In doing so, public debt has grown drastically. As a result of all this, in 2012, in 2013, we have to return about 20 billion kuna a year for the principal and about 10 billion kuna for the interest. It's the fruit of a policy run by the government where you've been Minister of Finance and now you're forgetting it and here you're stressing that 4 billion kuna debt. I repeat annually these years, 2012 and 2013 The Republic of Croatia, due to its large public debt, has to pay back 20 billion kunas of principal and 10 billion kunas of interest approximately. As for your main, how you started to argue that this measure did not lead to an increase in competitiveness or a decrease in labour prices or an increase in employment or GDP growth. Unfortunately, I have to agree with these other two points because this is what the data show, so there has been no increase in GDP and there has been no increase in employment, but there has certainly been a decrease in labour prices because this reduction in the mathematical nature of 2% and 8 certainly has been an increase in competitiveness. This, unfortunately, did not result with these two positive shifts, there was no increase in employment and there was no growth in GDP because the measure in itself was obviously not sufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74055	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74056	Comrade Radosh, it's not good to go into debates where you're not home. Because the total public debt of the Republic of Croatia is 200 billion and it's clear exactly how many billions are going to waste on four years of coalition government and for these two years, why? Well, because we in this House adopted the budget and implementation of the budget and the public debt grew by what the deficit was, although you had reduced that public debt for the sale of INE, 25% in the first two, three, four years of office, was reduced for the sale of the HT control package, for the proceeds from the sale of the Business Bank and for the proceeds from the sale of the Rijeka Bank, and that was almost $7.8 billion to you again, so there would be no 80, but there would be 90. So this is about the public debt, and therefore let's not glorify it because look, we voted on the budget in which we said it would be 13 billion, but the deficit for last year will be 17 billion, and therefore, since the Republic of Croatia has not sold the property, the only way and the possibility of funding the deficit is the debt. Therefore, the public debt of the Republic of Croatia is only growing on the basis of the general government this year, in fact last year it is increasing by 17.5 billion and this year it will grow if it is according to this rebalanced budget by 13.5 billion and it means only this budget part when they add those 10 from the previous year to over 40 billion kuna in these three years, over 40 billion kuna. So let's not play, and your colleague, Rados, for your information, in 2008, Croatia's public debt ratio in GDP was 28% and the deficit in the state budget was 0.8% or 2 billion and 800. It was a year before the crisis. Therefore, let us not justify some bad moves to deal with the exhibition if they are simply not true because of Croatian citizens because several times it has been publicly announced that out of these 200 billion public debt is precisely known to whom it is waste. Let's take all the calculations, add up, see what sales were going on in the meantime and that's it. So there's no need for us to fight politically.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74057	Thank you. Nadica Jelesh replica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74058	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Shuker, in your debate, you have marked this law as contradictory, in fact the first one you said was contradictory and then the next and this change. So, you said that the reduction in the contribution rate for health insurance did not result in any effect for employers, so you even illustrated it with one example, you said that the reduction in the contribution of 2% to the employer who employs I don't know how many workers and that that effect was 70,000, that it actually meant absolutely nothing to the employer. Therefore, this measure went to reduce the total labour costs and to increase the competitiveness of the employers themselves. However, we can say from this as you set the whole thing up that if the reduction in the contribution did not cost the employer’s work or gross salary, or if employers did not recognise it as a measure in that sense, then this return from 13% to 15% will also not feel it. So if it wasn't for them to feel the effects by reducing the rate of contribution from 15 to 13%, then they won't even feel an additional burden by returning from 13 to 15%.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74059	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74060	... My colleague Jelash, that you, along with this bill, have income tax returns, that you have VAT returns from 25% to 23% and that in VAT you give the opportunity to reject pre-taxes, then these employers would not feel this at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because with these two measures we would get a lot more than we would have to pay with this measure. So I was telling you about a package of four laws because this law you can't look at separately, and that's why I said it was a controversy, because those who brought it didn't recognize it as some kind of incentive and I gave you an example of a payment of 6 thousand kuna gross, so that's 120 kuna times 12 months, that's 1440 kuna. And take some small or medium-sized entrepreneur or craftsman who employs four or five people, that's 7 thousand kuna, and with 7 thousand kuna unfortunately we can't help him, but in some kind of, but look how many of these measures have come. Well, just a deduction of the pre-tax for cars has brought over 600 million kuna to the state budget, the inability to deduct. The VAT rate, many traders and all those who perform services due to competitiveness did not increase significantly more because it would increase from this base, much more revenue than it is, and they have lost something because at the expense of their own accumulations, prices were practically reduced. So, I'm talking about a package of laws. If we're going to look at a separate and logical thing that's going to be the cost of doing business because we're looking separately, this is a new tax, this is a tax hike. If you're looking separately, and it's just like that because if someone has to pay those 120 kunas now more, then it's a new increase. Because look, you know very well that in all speeches, the Minister of Finance said that in this year and next year, that rate will be reduced by an additional two percentage points, but the key thing that none of you here want to say, I'll say it here openly. This package isn't complete,...it's not a real estate tax yet,... collected 7 billion kuna. Now the question is, do Croatian citizens have those 7 billion kunas that were supposed to pay real estate taxes? Or property.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74061	Thank you. Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74062	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Says a professor who is for some of the doubtful views, Professor Kulic, that the crisis is a desirable situation because it allows us to put ourselves in a timely position in the face of life and the future because crisis situations are always solved in the forward-thinking truth. The crisis has a divergence and development role, and we seem to have given in to that divorce role, not to the development role. So the crisis can also be encouraging to think and figure out how to get out of the crisis. We were first filled with the stomach and emptied the brain through credit and cards, and today when our empty stomach, our brain has nothing to react to, and so here we have the strong moves of this government that one day, as I said, is affecting the money of the university of a billion and a half kuna, so he says he won't. One day he gets into companies from, so a public firm takes money and then creates a tax or suggests a real estate tax, another day there's no real estate tax. So then one day he says there's going to be an outcurcing hospital and some other facilities and then there won't be an outcurcing hospital. A work obligation for doctors prescribed and then taken off, and now you see me, now you can't see me. And so these two and a half years have been ruled by this government, which has clearly not realized that there is a possibility of development in the crisis, but has given itself to one of these, to say to one destructive mechanism. But today we're actually discussing something else, but everything... what we would say to Zagorci and this, so the Contribution Act, where the contribution that was prescribed from 13% returns to 15% even though due to the health debt, we're paying for them, I don't know, 6, 7, 8% of how much interest we already made, so instead of what we could get through the contributions now expensively paid for these two years that this contribution was reduced from 15 to 13%. And what we're going to get now after the 15% reintroduced, is that we're going to get what happened before, so at the end of the year, health is going to be lost again, and we're going to have to go back to 19th, or one of the 20 ministers, so we're going to be covering again from, let's say, the Ministry of Finance, if there's any good faith. The former prime minister said the crisis would only make us feel better. It was an interesting statement in 2009 and that we will not have any problems with the crisis and recession because it is a world process that will pass by Croatia as a meteorite by the globe when it arrives from space, so it may only make us a bit of a patch. But it didn't happen, but it did, right here these days it's showing that and already, what, the sixth quarter, which, it falls everything that shouldn't fall, as someone here said. The decline in exports, the decline in GDP, the decline in production, a couple of consumption, and growth, growth is only state costs and growth in unemployment. It's the only thing in this country that actually grows. Now, could the state costs, as the minister said here, be cut down? So if it were good will and courage to root, I'm not going to say structural, that's the word I'm getting tired of as transparently as the word, so root reform. These reforms are gone, everyone stays in their seats, there's no reduction in the number of employees, but in some ways we're going to make everyone a little smaller so they can be, well, the wolf sits, goats on the count. It would be even good if there were no other phenomena in this society where it was ordered by the government or the deputy and prime minister and the president himself to go into investment. And then those who don't have ideas or opportunities to invest invent investment like on the railroad, as a colleague said. On the railway twice 20 million kuna, they invent public tenders, and I even have contracts number 10/13 and number 33/13, so fictitious retroactive even retroactive contracts where they re-emerge and take money from the state treasury to show that there is an investment on the railway that says "for the services of the current maintenance of railway vehicles per mile" and the second contract is "for the resuscitation of 6 tilt trains". And the services are of the same content. So it's just an amazing thing. It's not the only thing that starts with the sale of 400 HZ Carg cars to a private company, interestingly, so you're selling your assets as a colleague, Sagar, you're selling your own labor funds. I guess he'd cut the value so he could get some kind of Gruio from Romania for as little money as possible. It's amazing what you're doing. These thousands and how much more, I don't know, a thousand 600 cars and frames, see an interesting framework is not calculated in the kuna how much they are worth than 300 million kuna says. straight, so settled to 300 million kuna, and then after two days in a 30-second announcement on the Croatian Dnevnik, a man who will complete the tire service for these, I don't know what number of cars and who says that the job...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74063	My colleague Grubisic is talking about contributions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74064	About the contributions, that contribution is 50 million kuna for tires. So it can't be for contributions, it can't be for anything, it can't be for citizens, it can't be for this country if we act like one. This behaviour of this authority which has not far removed from what was said yesterday in the Zagreb court, therefore, and this will come in order when they leave the authorities is simply so that the health care which is one of the foundations of society, education and health care therefore cramps in debt, cannot be recovered in any way, no contributions in this way will be made and at the end of the year we will have again Minister Ostojić who will say the mildly, sweetly, sweetly as he has done everything and there again some 2.3 billion have gone. See how much debts are due even though part of it has already been paid, big druggies, see how many waiting lists have already been spoken of here about waiting lists for waiting lists. Health care is sick, but with measures like this and no master plan that can't be disclosed by this Ministry of Health, we have no data on the master plan, so it won't heal, and neither does this contribution that is now increasing there. At least to get some ash and say we were wrong to cut it from 15 to 13%. No, but that explains it, puts it in some kind of cellophane that actually I don't know why, but that mistake was committed, it was done. And about other mistakes, someone else will talk, not me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74065	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74066	We will now move on to the decision on the points we have done here in the Croatian Parliament. First is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 633. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the representative of the representative of the respected Finance Minister Slavko Linic to show himself. Amendment No 1 to Article 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74067	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The Government accepts the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74068	Amendment number, everything? Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a decision on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 87 for, 18 against and 2 abstentions, have been adopted by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74069	We move on to: - Final bill on amendments to the law on gambling, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 631 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. We have the Deputy Minister with us. Here's an opening, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74070	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. When looking at the law itself, the technical 3 of Article 2 of the article amending the rate or adding a 10% tax rate for all winnings from lottery games and betting games. However, this law was the same as this Law on Contributions where this rate was changed is a package of laws and in the light of deficit cuts. When we discussed and discussed how what the European Commission proposed as recommendations to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in reducing deficits that amounted to slightly more than 7 billion kunas and how to make that fiscal consolidation that is extremely difficult to do because you are working in the 6th year recession and every further shift on incomes and expenditures is actually a question of how when you have such demands or when you have requests from the European Commission in which you do something without damaging the economy, that you do not damage the budget users, that you do not hit a specific category of users. Thus, the Government decided, although recommendations from a particular part of the private sector were that all 7.5 billion kunas should be sought on the spending side, and since the expenditure side of the budget is also linked to a number of categories of users of the budget that are socially at risk, especially when you know that most of them rely on pensions, that they work on those who are mostly on the budget when you look at the total amount of the budget. It's not about users who have some extra profit. So it's about low-income pensioners, it's about social care that also have some low-income meanings and either public or public administration employees who are also under-received... So in this context, certain measures were proposed on the expenditure side, they were half part of it, and then the question was, in what way and how this revenue, that part of the budget, and so that is one of the measures calculated here about 300 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can always wonder if it's 300 million, in which way it's actually calculated and that 300 million kuna actually it's a certain projection just like when you do any law to determine whether it's 300 million kuna, whether it's more or less, it's going to be seen with its application. Likewise, when we have reduced or increased a part of the VAT, it is difficult to guess exactly how much such a fiscal effect has put something on the budget. But certainly certain, I will not say a new burden but everyone in this section will have an impact and will have an impact on the people who are betting and it is difficult to guess what this will be a total impact on the overall business of these societies. However, you always watch when you bring in any measure and on the spending side, and it also has an impact on the economy, so here both the income and the expenditure side, means any measure you bring in and the other one has an impact on the economy. And now in this part we thought we weren't going any further into any further cuttings, especially cutting social benefits, that this is one of the measures that we're going to be able to not go into social cuts, not go into cutting those that actually have the least. That this part of 300 million kuna will symbolically but and significantly help that part of the income and help social and dedicated funds if it helps us not to go into further cuts. So it is not, I agree, that it is not popular to pass any such law, but the measures before the Government of the Republic of Croatia are that in three years it comes out of the excessive deficit and that it actually stabilises public finances in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74071	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club Independent Grubisic, Cain. There's no one here. They're losing their right to argue. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74072	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister of State. If we connect two discussions, this previous one and this one could now be told what luck is. Happiness is good health and poor memory. It's luck. We have a weak memory of what happened two years ago and thank God we're still in good health. But not such a health that we can verify all of what the government is serving us for this pay phone, or what it gives us on the benches. Just before in the name of the club, Mr. Rajedinovic said, although later he was getting away with it, but I will return to it afterwards. If it were luckier, they would probably tax the rich for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But what we did. As the coalition comes, after great promises, people have lost hope. It is easy to say that the Kukurik coalition stole the citizens' hope and will now steal some of their happiness. This is actually one of the more scandalous laws to be passed. These gambling revenues of up to 30 thousand kunas now taxed are compared with salaries. Nobody listens, games of chance. The people still have the lotto, and they're lucky they're left with the games. So, watch out, when you see the lines in the lottery in the country, that means it's a big crisis. Because it's easier for them, it's more likely to win at their lot than to get a job. They're more likely to fix their home budget by winning the lottery than by helping the state, it's a tragic condition. So, wages are consistent with the receipts from games of chance. It's absolutely certain to be taxed, I thought it might be taxed they get more 30.40%, 50%. But what happened? It came to terms that 300 million kunas would be obtained for those who get the least, because there's something that can be cleaned up. That reminds me, I'm not that old, but I remember from the history textbooks at '45. When they came to the villages, they with great boots, and the goats, and cleaned the ceilings, took the broom, and cleaned the ceilings to the last grain, to the last grain of grain. So this, more people, let's take it from him now. First you'll kill the will to play luck. Have you considered that citizens will simply say, let alone, we will not play, that you will fall for so much means of gambling. You weren't thinking about the effect. But 184 state agencies, they seduce, institutions, councils, funds, dozens, hundreds of millions, and over billions of spent money, you don't dare put your hand in their pocket and say you won't do anything. I mentioned before, the agency that said she had six applications, for four she found herself incompetent, and two failed to resolve in a year. Now it takes 17 million kunas to get, so normally it should be paid, why, so they set up their own people. So how will these people live? He'll play the lottery. You need to live off your work. How many hundreds of millions of kunas we throw in there, nobody talks about it. Before, Mr. Radenovic spoke about the major reforms that have been made. None of them were made, none of the major reforms were made, unfortunately not made. We've got a crash center, then we've got agencies for... pressure, we've got paying agencies in agriculture, 500 people, there's so many agencies that we don't know what to do with them. All those agencies have cars, cards, people in those agencies. Nobody says we're gonna have sex here 'cause there's something to start with. From what, from the citizens. There's an agency called the Investment and Competitiveness Agency. Mr. Damir Novinic is headed. When he came from the HRT he'd been destroying for years then they said they'd make a noise now, everything would reinvest. Which we have an investment in the Republic of Croatia, do we need that agency? We don't need, absolutely certain we don't need and we didn't get any investment and that agency says that the goal is to increase the number of investment projects, create new jobs, improve the investment environment. They didn't do anything, so let's cut them off and let's not put every few citizens' hands in their pockets and pull them out and tell them there's still some lip, let's turn that pocket around. And maybe they're suspicious, maybe they've hidden somewhere, so let's go and do it, maybe they're playing black games, so let's put some more agency to discover those who play games of chance on black. The agency will probably have work to do because it has those matchmakers who do, and it needs to be taxed. This is exactly what we have here, and happiness should be paid, so at least we've won, but we haven't, there's no courage in this government to tax the rich, there's no courage in big interest. She didn't find the courage to be dealings with football players worth hundreds of millions to tax. Now they're going to clean it up so quietly that someone doesn't mind a powerful man. Therefore, this is only proof that the government has no concept, that the government is taxing the poor and that this is a neoliberal government and that its social democracy is not even in its fifth.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74073	Thank you. We have two replicas. Ivo Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74074	Well, fellow Vuksic, you have finely worked out your debate in the end, so this government is not social democratic or neoliberal, etc. It's hard for me to convince you that it's not like that, and it's not my intention to convince you, but I expected you to support this law. If I'm not mistaken, you're the Labour Party, you're the Labour Party. I don't understand that that party that works first of all in the interests of workers and those who live by their work that they are, for example. Ready for years, decades and even today to be taxed, every one whose value is above 2200 kuna, without taxing something that is the gain of games of chance. So, what kind of party of work are you if you call us bad Social Democrats, what kind of party of work you are that work can be taxed, it is taxed and in every country is taxed, normal, but not taxed for example. A win from games of chance. What's more important than that work, is it more important for you when someone gets 5 or 50 thousand kunas from gambling, that doesn't have to be taxed, when a black man earns 4,000 kunas a month, that's what he needs to be taxed. I mean, there's a little bit of a strange criterion for you as a party of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74075	Thank you. Answer, colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74076	Mr. Jelusic, you haven't even read these three pages of the law, and you're replicating me. First of all, you get over 30,000 kunas and now you tax. Taxes the poor girl who plays, workers who play games of chance and who bet I said because you brought up the nation that the only thing that can save them is happiness, nothing else. About how you treat workers you've shown in the Labour Act. Don't give a lesson here, because if it were up to you, they'd take everything from the workers and give big capital what you take from the worker. Super Hick, clean Super Hick. Here when we speak and you are, you compare gambling to working salaries, working incomes, as Labourists fight for the taxation of workers, and that is why they are not to tax gambling. I just told you that I expected high amounts to be maybe 40-50% taxed, so whoever gets 10-20 million, 5 million kuna, not this change. But you're so deep you have to take everything and even what's least you can get.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74077	Igor Radjenović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74078	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, he said about an hour or so ago, my colleague Vuksic was surprised that the vice president didn't warn me because I didn't stick to the agenda. I have to admit, in most of the debate, he didn't stick to the agenda here, but he's playing it right now on the side. The law only has 3 pages, so it's 10-15 minutes hard, I agree with you, just stick to the subject. Mr Vuksic, the state must secure its expenditures and military and police and pensions and health care, etc., etc. Now, I'm also uplinking myself to my colleague Jelusic's replica, and you have to say, and where does that have to bring some revenue so that all these expenses can be secured or we'll give up on them? You were saying that this is where you tax the players. No, there's a tax on players, so 5% on sports bookies, otherwise it's paid through regular income. From Croatia, the lottery is indirectly returning to sport again, to culture, that I do not speak any further. Here we're talking about taxing the winnings, so those lucky players who got a certain win. I haven't been here since the beginning, I don't know if a colleague of Lalovac said but there are a lot of players who furniture these 30,000 you know and professional ones who live on purpose 29000, so it goes down, etc. Maybe we should see that. But I'm saying it doesn't stay recorded here, so it's not a new imposition. It's only about those who are lucky enough to get 10% off that happy win. They still have 90% left. I don't know what I'd call it gossip or a joke if you'd won a lottery somewhere. I hope that as a man, you did it. I hope that's when you paid that tax of 10%. But I really don't see any reason to get confused and I don't know why you're so excited. Lucky players. They still have 90% of their income, and I don't know what that would be like to hit the poor. And at the end of the line if it really demotes people not to play these games maybe it's a win win win situation so it's less betting addiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74079	Time. Thank you. Answer, colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74080	I didn't complain about your argument because it would make it impossible for you. I like this wide discussion. I just said let you remember that when I'm discussing and the vice president of the Parliament is, although he wasn't in the assembly respecting it and that you have the right to say it. It can't stick to the subject, we need to go a little wider, so some exposure. As for this internal one of yours, your words are gilded as far as I'm concerned personally, but I won't discuss it personally, so your words are gilded. And secondly, you said you were hoping if I got it, that I paid my taxes. Everyone has to pay, so they don't give you money, so you pay at the lottery. I'm telling you so far it's been paid as well. And as soon as you're paying for gambling, it's already part of going for charity charity purposes, I'm telling you. But isn't it sad that the richest ones, the ones who certainly didn't get rich? The fact that you said there were setups is already a problem for the police, it's a problem for investigations, etc. That's not what I'm talking about. The one who gets paid, you said. What's the problem? So what's the problem with the richest that you tax them? Well, that's far more money than this. I'm not excited at all, but I'm uncomfortable with how you take people's will even to play games of chance. Because I say only in Croatia can save them happiness, nothing else. Lucky and it'll probably be happy hands that you'll be as little in power as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74081	Thank you. Since I'm mentioned on one side and on the other, I'm obliged to give an explanation. Since the law is of a technical nature and it is very difficult to discuss for 15 minutes, counterpart Vuksic cut his debate in half. I've evaluated and I think he's mentioned happiness every three minutes, so here. No, I don't have a watch, so I'm measuring. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of HDZ Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74082	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, your esteemed colleague and colleague. Where exactly am I on this subject. I can't win at my colleague Vuksic's lot. If someone were to pay for me anonymously and eventually get that money, I wouldn't take it. As far as I'm concerned, no one would gamble with happiness if they were like me, but then society wouldn't work if they were all the same. A colleague, Vuksic, presented one definition of happiness. There are hundreds of definitions of happiness, but also different. But everyone agrees that happiness is an emotional state in which a person feels contentment. That's what everyone agrees with. But they also agree that the sources of happiness for everyone are not the same. It is not the same source of happiness for a noble person and a person destitute in spirit, it is not the same source of happiness for a temperate person and for a quiet person, nor for a healthy person and for a sick person is not the same source of happiness, neither is it for a cheerful person nor is it for an unemployed person, so it is not for a person with privileges compared to the person who is denied in rights. So it's no wonder it's lucky for someone to be free, for someone to be addicted even cause happiness. It's lucky for someone to have a high position in society, and it's for someone to avoid such a situation. For someone it is even good luck to acquire material goods to buy companies, and believe it or not makes someone happy and lay off workers because it increases profits and makes his happiness as much profit as possible. But there are those who truly happiness is both inner peace and doing good deeds and talking to friends, reading books, quite the opposite of what I've listed. Unfortunately, there are those who try to seek happiness with money, or they call for happiness, and they cause misfortune. Although Mr. Vice President said technical law requires he a little wider discussion and observation from all corners when it comes to gambling, and we even have to distinguish lottery games from betting and that is, although we call them one and the other games fortunate but there is a huge difference between the two we call them games. We can only observe the financial effect of the law, but we must not ignore the social effect or social utility or social harm. The games of happiness by their nature do not represent classical economic and entrepreneurial activity. We should be aware of that. Because an entrepreneur in the right sense risks his own capital to achieve profit. And here, as a rule, it's a risk to other people's capital, and most people do it for individual gain. We'd have to imagine how the last few years have become more and more twists, and from the window the headlines are burning our eyes of a bookies or a gold buyout, most often as it appears lately. I think it's also an indicator of the state of society. And while we can observe gambling on some well-intentioned side we can't say that bookies are both useful to the state budget and employ people but also produce social evil. Sometimes bookies directly cause crime. Well, we're also witnessing court proceedings. We can't ignore all the negatives in the bookies' society, and just look at the tax that's being collected. Then we could do more activities in Croatia and others, from which an even bigger tax could be collected but the social damage would be significantly greater. We can't forget that bookies lead to accidents, unhappy families, misdirecting young people. Sometimes high school kids are in bookies instead of class, even though they shouldn't be there. But isn't it a little pretentious without working to get money? And it can't possibly be a happy society where it's going to prevail so that it doesn't make money, it doesn't make money, it doesn't make money. It doesn't make money. It doesn't make money. It doesn't make money. It doesn't make money. Although Kant long ago said that we were not invited or allowed to determine or to teach someone how to have their own happiness, there can be no happiness in making others unhappy. No one has the right to forge their happiness by hitting other people's fingers. And a lot of dogs hit other people's fingers with their luck when it came to the bookies. And we can't close our eyes in front of that. And on the technical side when I'm talking, I think we should have more class. That we should certainly have one minimum amount that we should not tax because of the negative impact and outflows and fostering illegal betting of the Internet. And that's, like, 1,000, 2,000 kuna, maybe not taxable. But then it shouldn't be up to 500,000 to tax a single rate. Why wouldn't 2 thousand to 50 thousand be taxed 15%, but from 50 thousand to 500 thousand at 30%? So most people live and pay contributions and have a total salary of 50 to 60 thousand kuna. The profit tax is paid 20%, and here, without the work invested, only at risk would be paid less tax. And for the gains of more than 500 thousand kuna, I daren't even tell you what a tax should be, certainly not 15% or 20%. Well income tax, tax on non-permanent activity is much, much higher than taxes like this, and profits are much higher and profits are even greater than 500 thousand kuna. I know it's hard to reconcile all that now. There should be both negative and positive effects, but there should by no means be only two classes. I think we should think about more class here. Taxes are the most explicit concept you can even imagine, and happiness is one of the most relative concepts. How do you align the most exotic and relative term? Very difficult. But for a picture of such a situation, perhaps the famous Helen Keller said well, who said she cried long enough because they didn't buy her shoes, but that she stopped crying while she saw a man with no legs. So let us see, too, those who have fallen in fortitude at the stake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74083	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74084	Dear fellow Maric, you spoke here about the dangers of gambling, with the emphasis that you have on betting. The most dangerous thing there is in the world when we talk about money is speculative capital. The cruelest and most dangerous, far billions of times more dangerous than games of chance, with speculation being talked about. You said that happiness is inner peace, I agree with you completely, but how do you establish inner peace when you crown in your stomach? Very difficult, not even physically impossible. I would not in this economic situation in which you have well noticed that there are mostly I see the most gold purchase, what we call family silver or family gold has begun to be sold in order to make ends meet. I don't think it's a pity that games are so fortunate that we should think about ending it, but I agree with you that we should and I've advocated that these great gains should be taxed with more, you said that you don't even dare say how much and that you should determine what isn't minimum taxed, so I've also advocated that those who at least are not allowed to take it because I've never been in a bookroom in my life so I don't even know how to play it, I really don't know, you're probably more focused on it, doesn't mean that you're playing but that you've studied it, right? But I think the players of the lotto I know, I know the passives, they play it out of a hobby.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74085	Goran Maric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74086	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic did not advocate banning anything but I said it was extremely difficult to find a balance between social utility and social harm, it is undeniable to have benefits, it is undeniable to have social and damage. I agree with you that speculative capital is one of the worst forms and abuses but isn't betting one kind of speculation so that speculation is again said, this proves the court's processes, imagine, bet who's going to hit the first shot or who's going to get the first half of hockey, what's the point of that? The point is to mislead the people, but when you say it's easy for the poor, it's hard for the poor to find peace, but the poor still find peace easier than the rich, the rich can't find peace at all because they're always small, they're always small. And when they get what they want, then they're even more wanted, and I haven't seen anyone yet, and I've met them that they don't want more than they do. There's a bigger problem in them. But when it comes to tax returns, so today, even though I have a memo here, there's a month of why you don't cut your salary by leading the CNB that's twice the size of the state service, so you don't get off the air from the first class of Boeing, you don't get off. They spend more in the air above the Atlantic than in the workplace, and nobody asks them how much a year they spend, more than one person in the leadership of the CNB spends in a year than 10 MPs, but we can't touch that. So let's change the law for the CNB to win to go to the state budget, I'll raise that hand right now but let's change why keep those profits? We take the profits of those who should invest and those who can't invest they keep the profits, make them pay you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74087	Thank you. Cresimir Bubalo Replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74088	Thank you very much. Dear Maric, in your presentation, you have detected what is important, and that is to turn it off. What's even more important is that Minister Maras has no solution. But what I want to rephrase to you is that of these craftsmanships that are being closed are not just bookies, but 50% are bookies and 50% is buying gold. But when you talk about happiness, happiness is avoiding accident. And we know that a good part of our entrepreneurs wants to avoid accidents, i.e. Paying taxes. Well, they're imagining how to charge costs and cut taxes. But what's evident in this law, we're going to get a notion, a list of addicts and a list of those who got in this or in the next years on happiness, i.e. from games to luck. We'll have clear records that are addicts and how much they got from gambling. So it wasn't all about missing turns in new bookies, it was about buying gold. That is why Croatia is the only thing that has increased in the past year, and that has increased gold exports by 300%, as if we have a mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74089	Thank you. A colleague Maric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74090	Thank you very much. My colleague Bubalo, I will not agree with you in one thesis. You said it wasn't luck to pay taxes. I think it's lucky to pay taxes after all. If the tax is paid according to what is intended for economic power, the tax must be paid according to economic power. In Croatia, however, the tax is not fair and is not allocated according to economic power, so some people also experience an accident to pay taxes, but if someone has earned money, if someone is dealing with something and then they should be happy that they can pay taxes but can't be happy if one who can't pay taxes is not paid to pay taxes and one who doesn't pay all of them doesn't have to pay taxes to the state. In such paradoxical situations you can't be happy. As far as the crafts are concerned, it's usually me that a lot of people won't agree, but the Ministry of crafts doesn't make any sense as the Ministry at all. The economy ministry should have a craftsman's office at its ministry. But it's more important for us to call a minister to have several official cars, to have a secretary, to hire, to eventually take out 50 million kuna from the budget and say, "Here, we gave it free to encourage and that the minister's role has been achieved, however, it's not. But it's not just there, it's a similar role, and the Minister of Tourism is that no matter who's in power. The trades were shut down because of the negative legal framework and tax treatment towards craftsmen, and we are the country that has the number of cafes, the number of purchases of gold and bookshops most per population. That's what we should be worried about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74091	Igor Radjenović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74092	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And it is not often the situation in this House that one party praises the discussion of the other party, especially when this party speaks for the club, but we must acknowledge and commend the public, I very much liked your debate between colleagues Maric and the width and the debate you have set. I liked this clear distinction between the lottery games and the bookies and all the social benefits and the damages that they could possibly cause. And I think you've made a good point of opening that subject and that from one seemingly technical law you've shown how much it can have wider social consequences. On this progressive taxation, the same principle could be agreed with you that the higher gains certainly have a more progressive and higher percentage of tax collection, the question is where is that line around this minimum cost, so where is it, you say yourself, in collecting taxes where this opportunity cost is born with tax collection and where is that lower limit where and the Tax Administration has an account and a calculation that some income is collected or not collected. Anyway, commendation one more time. The only thing you've missed in your debate is perhaps now in this response to the replica you'll be able to say, I didn't realize what the position of the HDZ club is whether it will support this proposal or not. Here's what I missed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74093	Thank you. Answer, fellow Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74094	Thank you very much. Thank you, colleague Radjenović. We must not fall into a trap and from only one corner and watch closely anything, let alone the law one. The law applies to all of us and to society, so we need to look at it from a bird’s perspective with all the consequences and effects of positive and negative consequences. You said progressive taxation, so progressive taxation is a fair taxation. I didn't make it clear how much that minimum should be either a thousand or two kunas, I don't insist on the clarity of it because, say, 5% is paid for all payments. And what's winning? If someone paid 500 kuna and won 700 kuna and didn't win 700, he won 200 kuna. The current law does not make it clear, so we need to take a broader view of it. As to the assessment of whether we are for the law or not, if we were to approach the legal solutions in this sense in which I was exhibiting, if classes were to be made this much more progressive taxation, if the remarks we made were to be taken into account, we would support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74095	Thank you, too. And the last replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74096	Thank you very much. Dear Maric, here you have responded in this response to the replica. Namely, in the case of payments, it is already when you pay the payment either in the bookies, either in lot or in bingo, etc. You pay 5% of the tax on the payment itself. But no distinction has been made here about what it is to gain. Winning is the difference between what you paid and what you got. So that difference is a win and that's what a tax could go to. But here you pay back the tax on what you pay yourself. You said 500 kuna, so if you get some 2,000 or something, then you pay 10% and that 500 kuna you've paid. And as one reality perhaps in the world, and it's about your speech that you said about happiness as a relative concept and all the negatives that appear in the work or in the behavior of young people and all those who go to bookshops or play lottery is that the Hungarian prime minister has lifted bettings in Hungary, has abolished all bets, has no bookies because he just considered you. So it spoils the youth, spends the money of a Hungarian citizen, etc. So he canceled. He didn't rely like our Ministry of Finance to withdraw any funds from those, but instead he shut down the bookies. Very interesting in the world, I suppose, uniquely, yes, but they've been abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74097	Thank you. Answer, fellow Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74098	Thank you very much. A colleague Grubisic, of course, is not the same if someone pays 100 kunas and gets 200 kunas, and these 100 kunas have already been paid 5% or if someone has paid 200 kunas and received 3 million kunas. The profit of 3 million kuna tax at 15% I don't think it's appropriate or acceptable or a 20% rate. So why? Because of these three million kunas of potential somebody's profit, three million kunas have been lost, so we have to look at the wider effects. Three million kunas are not spent at the store, three million kunas are not paid VAT, three million kunas will not be sold or their goods will not be spent 3 million kunas will be less. And the one who made three million kunas won't spend it, he'll first buy a plane ticket and fly away somewhere and spend it out there. In a broader context, the whole thing should also be observed in the general interest. As for happiness, of course, it's a relative notion of happiness, so I said the most relative. Personally, I'm extremely happy that I've never gambled and I'll never, I guarantee it, that I've never even lit a cigarette, even for that I'm happy. But the more my kids don't gamble, the happier it makes me, though. Most of all, it makes me happy when that Bible "son" comes true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74099	Thank you, too. On behalf of SDP representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74100	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Honored Assistants, colleagues and colleagues. Here, although there is no fellow Vuksic now, so I can speak, because he said earlier in the replica that I did not read the law and look at the courage I did not read the law, so even in the name of the club I will speak. But, well, when a man doesn't have arguments, that's the best way he wants to shut someone else's mouth, but it doesn't. As far as this law is concerned, I'd say so. If this law of course had its own fiscal dimension and it was seen through an explanation that it was assumed that somewhere along this basis we would be incometing about 300 million kuna but it has its other dimension, I would say the dimension of a particular social justice. And I wish we'd done it before. Because if we tax labour and income from work, if we tax profits, then income from profit why not tax and income on happiness. So if we tax anyone who works all month long and achieves 3, 5, 15, or it doesn't matter how many thousands of kunas they pay, they have to pay taxes on each income of more than 2200 kuna at different rates. If someone who invests their capital or work and basically gets a certain profit, he has to pay a tax on it. Now I don't know why someone shouldn't pay a tax on that profit they make based on happiness. Of course, by now they've been taxed higher if I can say winning more than 30 thousand kunas at a progressive rate of up to 500 thousand 15%, over 500 thousand 20%. But they haven't been taxed up to 30,000 kunas yet. We don't really see any reason why it would remain that way if I said other receipts and other incomes were taxed on any other basis and to that amount. If we look at the data from taxation of gambling winnings, we'll see that exactly the majority of these gains are in this range of up to 30,000 kuna. Total payments when it comes to betting are 5.6 billion kuna, 4 billion 530 million payments, we're talking about the 2013 data. Of which, only 4 million kunas or 0.9% were paid on these 4.5 billion kunas paid on behalf of the profits. When it comes to lottery games, there are some numbers different, so payments were about 678 million, payments 298, profit tax paid 24 million, so 8%. Or when we add it all together so far in 2013, last year in the name of gambling tax, the profit from gambling was somewhere around 28 million kuna or 5.5%. These data are just saying that most of them, that most of the payouts were below 30 thousand kuna because the good part or the vast majority remained tax-free. Now why shouldn't someone who gets 5, 15, 20, 25 thousand kuna be taxed and so far is not, and someone who earns income based on work or based on investment in business capital has to pay for it. So it makes sense that everyone should be taxed. What we can possibly talk about or should see, to analyze whether even the smallest gains of 100, 200 kuna, etc., should be taxed because I don't know if there's any fiscal effect that really matters and come on, we can consider it a game and entertainment. But all of this that is greater than 1,000 kuna and further absolutely deserves to be taxed. Because it's safe that there's not enough money in the budget and there's no need. If 300 million kunas are to be collected, then it must be much fairer and much better to pay on this basis, based on taxation of gambling gains than to go to another tax procedure or not to God to raise income tax or income tax on people who work and here we have just one huge amount of money, so it's almost 5.6.5 billion kunas that are not taxable. Or most of it is not taxed because most of the winnings are up to 30 thousand kuna. We have seen here and the attitude of the associations, as it is called, of the Association of Gamemakers, where they present their arguments why they should not do so, and they start from that if such a law enters that many of their bookies, many of their counters, that there will be 2200 people without a job, that 800 business spaces will remain empty etc.. Little is their argument strained and, of course, everyone writes what suits him. There may be a certain drop in payment but certainly not that it will come to such a drastic or that there will be no full payment and that there will now be layoffs of all people or that there will be closures of all the businesses and all the places where betting takes place or some other kind of gambling. So that argument is a little tense and I still think that ultimately the effect on the basis of the tax achieved will be positive, and there is no reason I repeat that this part of the profit is not taxed if other types of income are taxed.... They say sociologists do it often..., I see today and fellow Vuksic said that they say sociologists that in a crisis always more people play different games of chance, test happiness etc., that it is always a phenomenon of crisis. Now as much as it's really and scientifically proven to be then, but I know that my generation since we've been standing up, we've always been in a crisis, and they're always playing games of chance. And now someone's gonna say so, that's exactly why. When I started studying, so she started stabilising, a couple of notches, there was no electricity, the crisis was huge, and then that stabilisation didn't stabilize, and the state didn't stabilize at all. Then came the political crisis with Milosevic, Serbia, etc., and then the war came and brought the crisis with it, so we were in crisis, and then the conversion and privatisation came, destroyed little what was left and again in the crisis, so that it would all end with Sanader and Fimi Media, the robbery, etc., and again in the crisis. Turns out we're in a crisis all the time. So we're constantly in crisis and that's why they seem to be playing games of chance. Well, it's not just that, and in developed countries that haven't come this way that we've been through, at least not in these 30 years, games of chance are playing, and it's not just our phenomenon. So, in conclusion, of course we support this law, that it should certainly be as taxed every other income of labour and capital and the one below 30 000 kuna, as well should be taxed, and the one that comes from games of happiness as a gain from games of chance. So let's not, happiness is something that is very important to man, but I think it's even more important to work and if we tax what he does with his work, and we tax and tax all other countries, why don't we tax something that's a result of gambling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74101	Thank you, too. Let's go to the replicas. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74102	Thank you very much. A colleague Jelusic, you said that on the basis of the tax on winning lottery games, the Croatian state achieved about 28 million kuna for 2013, and that the payments were to add up a total of about 10 billion kuna from gambling. So betting 5 billion and 600 and betting and lottery total around.... If you take that 5% at the deposit, every payment, then that's 500 million just at the deposit, it's already in the state budget. It's about the payments themselves. Plus these 28 million kunas that I can really say the amount for happiness is too small and when we talk about these 30,000 kunas, that's what should be placed in multiple levels, in multiple classes like one of the other colleagues said here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74103	Thank you. Answer, Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74104	Well, fellow Grubisic, it is true that the editors, therefore not the winners of gambling but those who make the games are due from all their incomes, so of all the payments they get 5% to give in the state budget, but it is not a tax on profits, it is of all the payments and I hope that they are paying it. And it wouldn't be worse, here's the Deputy Minister of Finance, and the director of the IRS was up until a little while, it wouldn't be bad enough to comb, more often to see if they were actually paying. I believe they're paying, if they don't have to, and it should be a little bit, because I don't have too much trust in those who make games that they're very honest and that they would pay every kuna if they didn't have to. But we need to squeeze them a little bit, see if that 280 million kuna they paid a year, is it all, if maybe they should have paid more. So it's one dimension and it's not controversial, in this law we don't touch it or change it. What we're changing, we're changing that we should also tax the profits that are below 30 000 kuna, which so far has not been. And I repeat, I think it's okay and it's necessary for a simple reason because we're also other incomes, income from work, so everyone who works for their salary has a salary of 5, 8, 30 or no matter how many thousands of kunas, 18, has to pay taxes. Why and whoever got it as a result of their investment in their happiness wouldn't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74105	Thank you. Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74106	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelusic, you said it was normal to tax up to 30 000 kuna on gambling and we agreed. But you said you should consider whether a minimum should not be taxed. Well, that kind of minimum should really not be taxed, especially for this reason because it pays 5% on payment. But if it took more classes, I think there's a missing one in your debate, and you said rich people should be taxed. Isn't it natural that someone up to 500,000 gambling gains pay 15% of the tax, and someone with entrepreneurship problems, with the payment of claims, with lawsuits, with cancellations, pains, payouts, has to pay a 20% tax and another dividend tax of 12% and all the difficulties that... this without difficulty accidentally earned 500 000, up to 500 pays 15%. Wouldn't it make sense if he at least paid 20, and over 500,000 to pay a little more. That's what I stand for. And I'm aware of all the positive effects that they have on gambling, but we have to look at the negative consequences, and that's why we balance and carefully approach those classes so that the negative effects don't deepen and we get as many positive effects as possible. I think that's the way it should go and whether someone's gonna bet or not, let's just leave it to him. But let's establish a socially desirable framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74107	Thank you, too. Answer, colleague Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74108	Dear fellow Maric, I agree in a large part with you that it should be differentiated rate and it is differentiated. Can we talk about it enough? So now we have, so up to 500,000 kuna is 15%, from 30 to 500,000 kuna. For over 500,000 kuna profits, the tax is 20%. We can also discuss this in fact I like your otherwise constructive approach today on this law and on this subject. Because if every income now depends on personal deductions that go beyond 10, 12000 kunas we tax at a rate of 40% why don't we also win from games of chance. I mean, we can talk about that too. And I hope that in these few days while the law is still under discussion that we may need to open up that debate, so at that differentiated rate that exists now as 10, 15 or 20%, we may be even more differentiated and that we are even more taxing really extremely high profits by leading on one moment that I don't know, but we need to evaluate that we don't go too far from countries in our environment, so that we don't make a huge tax press so that, and today they're open borders so that people don't go a few miles further to invest in Brežice if it's more profitable for him. So, to be competitive in that part, but also to be no less ruthless about it than we are about other incomes that people make.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74109	Cresimir Bubalo, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74110	Thank you very much. At the end of your debate, you said that every income from work and capital was taxed. That's how it's supposed to be a fortune tax and up to 30,000 kuna. In fact, when we talk about labour tax he is taxed, but when we talk about capital tax or savings she is not taxed in the Republic of Croatia. And that's why there are so many non-residents in the Republic of Croatia who bring in capital or savings here and don't pay any taxes. So, if they took out the Croatian National Bank report, then they would see how many non-residents in the Republic of Croatia and their huge income. So you have some who probably have over a million euros in savings income and they don't pay taxes, and at the same time after this amendment of the legal solution, the one who may have invested a few hundred kunas and won 100 kunas, he will pay a 10% tax on those 100 kunas. And then it's not good, and then it shows that those big and big and those with huge capital didn't get into the tax system, and maybe this lucky guy who gets those 100 kunas invested 500 that's still gonna pay 10%. We are for taxation, but we are very much for taxing especially the big ones they have, who have big savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74111	Thank you. Answer, colleague Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74112	Dear colleague Bubalo in that part when it comes to those who have less and less to pay taxes, those who have more to pay don't have to convince us. We have already shown on a few examples that we are doing so. So by changing the income tax, so on the tax that each of us has achieved at what he does, we have made a slightly different rate so that all those who have below the average salary to them are somewhere by two percentage points reduced or increased wages in that part because we have reduced their income tax. Therefore, take care of it. But those who have really more and they need to be taxed more. Well, that's what we did. For example, until recently, until recently this government came to the power of profit tax was paid at a rate of 20% and this was taxed any profit. But when you pay your taxes on profit when someone pays it as their share in profits or dividends, he didn't pay anything. We've introduced a 12% tax on that, too. Therefore, we have shown that those who have more want to tax more. And, of course, not only 12% but also the city's taxes that live in the city, which they have, etc. Therefore, it is a capital tax. What is profit rather than income generated based on investment, based on capital? As far as saving residents, the non-residents about it are, that's not the point, so this law. But I hope that soon, in this Croatian, in this Croatia and in this Parliament, we will probably discuss this too. We have entered the EU, and if most of the EU countries in our environment have or will have a savings tax, there is no reason not to introduce them either. Therefore, it would have to be competitive and comparable in each segment to the countries in the environment. Therefore, there is no reason not to introduce this too if the analyses show that this is necessary and that we will be able to say how to correspondence with other countries in our environment, above all in the EU. In the end we are now, it will now be a public document. They will know exactly how much savings they have in the EU and how much tax they will pay on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74113	Thank you. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here you see the badge is always in your pocket, so there's no problem. The Montenegrins say give him more, and who doesn't take away what he has. However, it is not exactly applicable to this law on, or amendments to, the Law on Games on Happiness. I have just said one false thing before, I must admit that in the game of betting and in lottery games, about 10 billion kuna is paid in Croatia. It's not true, it's 7 billion and 300, 400 million kuna a year. Therefore, 5% of these 7 billion and 400 million kunas, so 5% that is paid by either ticket, whether by buying lottery, lota, bingo, etc. So it's 370 million kuna. What is interesting is that on the basis of the tax on winning lottery games, the total amount is around 28 million kunas. Which is really like this one number that bounces by being really small. Now, when we take that here in our neighbouring country, the prime minister must say Orban has abolished betting and betting, shut down maybe thousands of jobs just by that suspension, made it impossible for his fellow citizens to play at the bookies, to guess who's going to perform the first corner, who's going to get the first yellow card, what's going to be the result of the first half, who's going to score the first goal, whether it's visiting or domestic, various forms, and even if you have that bet, it's going to go into politics, and then, in some countries, it's predicting who's going to be president of some country after the election that's being held, and it's going to be on bookies. That's really funny. And then we have to say because of the affairs that broke out in sports and they're related to bookies, we know about cases in Germany and in some other countries where the results were set up, where someone got the intentional first yellow card, and someone there already knows they're going to get it, etc., there was everything. Just for those reasons where the citizens spent on bookies like ours, so the bookies spent 5 billion and 600 million kunas in 2013. Unbelievable! 5% The Republic of Croatia's budget is paid into bookies. Because of such things and because of passion and because we have even introduced betting and gambling into a drug addiction disease, such as alcohol, the disease of addiction takes a serious place in diseases of addiction in the Republic of Croatia. That was the report when we were talking about the addictions and diseases of the Centre for Addiction of the Republic of Croatia. Just betting was mentioned as one of those addictions that destroys marriages, which leads young people to wrong ways, which lead to theft, thieving to settle their debts, or to pay some amounts for betting. And that's exactly why Hungary did what she did. Here's an attempt, by this legal proposal, to make so-called. "Little Wins" taxed at three to say class. So the profit tax would be paid at a 10% rate, so that the 10% rate is paid by those whose profit is up to 30 thousand kuna. At a 15% profit rate of 30 to 500 thousand kuna. I think that 30 thousand to 500 thousand kuna class is too big, huge. So it stretches from 30 to 500 thousand kuna. And that's where two classes can be set. One from 30 to 100 grand and the other from 100 to 500 grand. Furthermore, another class that says from 500 thousand to a million and then over a million to three million and over three million. We have different rates than we have and what someone here says profit tax is 20%, dividend tax 12%, people who work that much pay. These are games of chance, actually games of chance, and I'm not going to say bad luck to someone else, but we're actually playing one I'd say to the register of mutual assistance. That's right, the expression from socialism, where one person mostly or more of them gets the money from the payer that they didn't get. That's right. It's like some kind of health insurance. One who goes on dialysis three times a week spends more money on health insurance than 2,000 people who have possibly drank in their life andol, analgin or something else. One person! In some ways, it's also about so-called. Bismarck's principle of solidarity only applied not to health insurance or retirement but to gambling. So we're all playing and one win. That's what we all paid for that gentleman who got it. It's interesting that in ours, it's a little bit by the way or by the way that in our games we find out a little bit about those who get it. Interestingly, they are among these golden winners or so on. very often known persons and children of some entrepreneurs or tycoons. I will not name here on purpose so that it does not turn out to be mentioned or extended, but I know at least 4 people related to certain tycoons in Croatia who received 20 to 40 million kunas on the Loto. I won't name it now, but I can whisper to Lalovec, if you'll excuse me for this private address. So, it's hard to get the impression that these gains, high gains aren't sometimes there's some indication, there's a suspicion that they're not possibly that strange that there's some kind of luck and some others have never been lucky, some of them don't play like me that I never play, right? So this profit is based on betting or the base of lottery games is actually not working, it's not working, you've gone there, you've spent two minutes, you've circled those numbers and you've handed it over. It's all the work you've spent to possibly get, possibly, and that's why you don't have to be too careful about these gains by setting up more or as you said here differentiated rates, so up to 1000 kuna, say Mr. Lalovec, I wouldn't even be taxing, they get to 1,000 kuna, all of which is 1,000 to 30 000 10% from 30,000 to 100 000 15%, from 100,000 to 500 000 20%, over 500,000 to 1 000 000 000, over 3 000 000 30%, and over 3,000 million kuna 40%. Why am I saying it's not much? Well, because no one's ever paid so much that it's not worth paying him for such a profit of any tax, any tax. Tax as a real fact, therefore, if, as was the case, someone on that Euro lottery got a great deal of money and paid a single ticket, so he didn't have a problem paying 40% of the tax because he still got about 600 million kunas or about a billion kunas left over, he didn't eat onion, or onion, as they say he smelled, got 600 million kunas, and the state and the Treasury state were 400 million kunas if he was 40% of the tax. We discussed the savings stakes and interest on the savings stakes of the residents and the non-residents here 100 times, and there was disdain and on this right about it even though it was here and it was said that it would come to order, when will it come to order? Well, we've already discussed it a hundred times, and there's never been any such law on the agenda, nor has there been a thought or announcement that such a law would come to the agenda. This legislative proposal is expected, therefore, to build on these classes, the tax classes that are listed here and there are three, at a rate of 10, at a rate of 15 and 20%, so it will blend into the state register around 300 million kuna on the basis of the profit tax. I think that amount could be a lot bigger. This time he'd be about 10 times bigger than he is now, because now he's 28 million kuna and he'd be 300 million kuna, so more than 10 times would increase the tide. In a situation like this, I have to say that I support a legal proposal by just making or adding that more tax classes are made, so it differentiates the rate and that up to 1000 kunas of profits are not actually taxed because you are already paying 5% of the tax. Here, if this law remains as it is now and we don't get some guarantee from the Deputy Minister that it could change in this particular sense more than a class, which would definitely come and more income from the tax would come from more than 300 million, then we would be restrained about this law, if it were different, then we would be in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74115	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74116	Fellow Members, your debate as well as many others but I will refer to your debate going so that you, as a doctor rightly warn, and nobody here has mentioned it before, one ugly addiction and this is a dependence on betting, on gambling, even the European Parliament resolution warns Member States to show, to set up certain measures, mechanisms to inform consumers, so those participants and not to remain without property, especially this applies to young people. On the other hand, many are, and you too are discussing immorality in this way, the question of even teaching fate to such games of happiness instead of work and hard work, especially as one indicator to young people, and then the conclusion is why little gains are taxed in the first place. I think that if we consistently stand on the fact that it is not acceptable to act as a game of chance, maybe to some extent, to some extent, to the extent that the game of happiness serves as a party, but if there is one business and abandonment, and we are witnessing that there are also such people in Croatia who have left their jobs and given up and have already given up, and that is now a vice of gambling, we have led the families into black, left without their property, then the team before and the team of these more expected 300 million kuna and the taxation of all profits must be in some way the conclusion of your discussions because, as we discuss, I think it's unfortunate and unsatisfactory for any serious debate. And I especially like what you said about the disease if it's about gambling where an individual is constantly dealing with such a job, and that's one serious problem, but a team more and a team should then support this bill and note my going along with that of getting a huge part going right for the work of our associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74117	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74118	Yes, colleagues, Ingrid, thank you very much for your support for my debate. In fact, betting really is a disease mostly for those who are regularly betting, who cannot be kidnapped, so like those who are addicted to drugs. They have to be at the bookies every day, more at the bookies to say literally. They know the first Egyptian league in mind, they know the third Turkish league in football, they know the second Czech league in ice hockey, they know everything. So smart people but as far as addiction is concerned, unfortunately, I wouldn't want to say anything else ugly but dependent on pain. And that addiction ruins a lot I'd say even more families, young people and all the others. Nobody asks you how old you are at the bookies. The kids come in, they get to go to school, they come to the bookies, they spend their 10 kunas on what his parents want him to spend at the bookies. That's a terrible thing to do. But when we talk about profits, it's hard to determine some sort of tax class that would be justified. Whoever deals with it in terms of business eventually loses as he loses on roulette is anyway. Played you roulette or played bookies is the same devil, so you'll always lose, there's no winner you're always a loser. Now to determine that number that would be taxable is that a thousand kunas, two thousand kunas, I don't know, it's hard to be smart. The gambling tax and betting will not reduce anything in this matter by health care will not reduce the number of those who bet, I don't believe.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74119	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74120	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, you said you should not be careful about taxing such gains, I agree with only more classes. And the minimum profits should be taxed up to 30 thousand kuna, but only the minimum part on which they are already paid on payment should you consider not to be taxed. But it doesn't need to be in fear, and under cover, bookmakers will flee abroad, have a lower tax rate than the tax rate on economic activity, because since we're not afraid that one of the independent activities or someone who deals with entrepreneurship also doesn't go abroad when they pay higher rates than they pay for profits. So there's danger but not if we're equating and putting into an unequal position of this relative to those who work. Happiness can be earned in many ways, but it helps very often, but work helps always unless it is systematically destroyed by someone. And in Croatia there are cartels that destroy other people's work with non-payments, consciously intending to destroy someone's torment and effort. And what you were saying about addicts, that's why I said that we should distinguish gambling from bookies. The bookies are mostly gamblers, mostly not all but mostly gamblers, and gamblers are addicts. And these gamblers even sometimes pawn their own apartment and become a social problem after that. So if they enjoy themselves in happiness, then let them shed their own tears, not be a burden to society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74121	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74122	That my colleague Maric is actually on to the same thinking. Namely, if, as you yourself said, this profit tax is 20%, the dividend tax is 12%, so what is 32%, so what is it for the working people or for those who do the income, income, etc. So what's the point of someone who makes it so easy, whose luck has anointed us to say so, even though it's fortunate that you said a relative term, which is why we would have some consideration for those who are here at those who dispute over 500 thousand kunas 20%, so what's that for? Well, he's lucky to make 30%, so he's got 350 left over, and the country goes 150, so that's luck. Yeah, well, I wish one of us was shaking like that, but he won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74123	We're moving on to an individual debate. I'm a colleague of Ivan Shuker's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74124	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy, Madam Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. Well, this law needs to be looked at with two aspects. I was already talking about amendments to the Law on Games of Happiness when playing is becoming as addictive as any excessive enjoyment, then it's one big social problem and worse on Sisters Mercy's Department I think there's more gambling addicts than an addict on something else. So it's a social evil and a question of whether the law can or can't solve it in particular in today's times when various types of gambling, betting, etc. are available. I'll talk about it later. However, what I would like to talk about, which is betting as an economic activity because it is present and at this point according to the data of some kind for 2012 with the basis of this economic activity in the state budget is sitting somewhere around 560, 570 million kuna, therefore with the basis of the contributions of employees, taxes etc. And what might be crucial in changing this law to say some things and maybe trying to find a solution to being what you say is both a wolf full and a goat. And that's that at this point all payments are paid 5% of the tax and that's somewhere on the annual level of 280 million kuna. And so what is the dispute between those who do this work, who make games of happiness and proposals of this law, i.e. The finance ministry is that this bill proposes that all gains be taxed. Now you're asking that one elemental question about whether this is why your colleagues and colleagues are illegal Internet betting, which I'm afraid we don't know how much we can prevent, whether the state budget will lose or win more. Whether a large number of those who are unfortunately betting supporters, I personally did not, will push for illegal betting and thus damage the state budget because they will no longer pay 5% that they now pay when they pay or pay anything and will likely happen to a reduction in the number of bookmakers. And if we answer that question, if we find some kind of compromise let's say that 1500 or 2000 kuna is untaxable and that up to 30,000 is taxed what I know with 10% and the question is how normal is the gap between 30 and 500 thousand kuna. Maybe it would be more logical if it were 150, 200 thousand kuna, then another class of 200 to 500 would be more than 500, and it would be an error of taxation. And that means what's going to be between two and 30 grand to be taxed at 10%, between, say, 30 and 200 thousand, so the difference between 30 and 200 thousand to 15 percent, so let's say the difference between 200 and 500 thousand to pay 20 percent and everything over 500 thousand to that difference is to be a 25 percent rate. I think it's something that would reconcile at this point at least according to some of my knowledge and those who do that job and the state budget, the state budget wouldn't lose, however, it would get what it expects and I think that they would then achieve what we want. The meaning of tax laws therefore allows economic operators to carry out their activities, not to be overly burdened. And so are those who want to receive that service, because no matter how they look at it because it's a service, that they are in a certain way satisfied. And another question that remains open, which is winning. Because if the bookie pays some combination for 5 kuna, he gets 25 kuna, his winnings aren't 25 kuna, his winnings are 20 kuna. And then it would be a logical thing if the basis for taxation were that, by the way, that he had already paid 5% of his taxes on this payment of 5 kuna. And, Mr. Deputy Minister, if the government wanted this amendment to be 2000 or 1500 untaxable and you have indicators and this, I say you bring this column down with 500 down, even though these 30,000 kunas because there's too much range, I don't think there would be any reason, there would be any economic loss that this law doesn't support. But I'm only saying from this economic sphere because I did start my debate with this part of addiction is hard to support if, for example, the case of makedonia that did something similar says that in the first months with the basis of illegal Internet betting has fallen traffic over 30%. And what happens to us if we pass a law like this and the state budget loses 100 million kuna? Then we didn't do anything. So if, after all, the government sees that this is bad, it always gets to change the law, but this is something that shows that people won't run because they won't have any reason to run to illegal Internet betting. After all, the largest number of winnings is up to several thousand kunas. Maximum number. And I say, it's hard to prevent addiction with some kind of repression. After all, you unfortunately if you forbid something then it becomes more or less challenging and it is worse for those young people above all who today are the most surfing on the Internet and unfortunately bet without any control at this illegal betting. Maybe if we leave most of that bet within some line we might have control that we can control that kids under 18 can't get into bookies and bet. Maybe we can work something out with that. So, Mr. Deputy Minister, if we accept this proposal then the law is supported but if there remains this kind of variant that from zero to 30 thousand kunas don't tax I think we'll do damage to the state budget, we'll get a few hundred new unemployed on the market and I think we'll do a bad thing. So, think about it, tomorrow is the government's session, make some kind of suggestion to be some kind of 2,000 kuna untaxable or whatever you think it is, I think it's some kind of reasonable number and you put these classes down, you'll go more financially, looking at the revenues in the state budget not just one segment, and there won't be a new 500, 600 or 700 unemployed on the stock market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74125	Ante Jerolimov, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74126	You mentioned the harmful sides of this law besides the economic activity of this law. But what worries me more than the law itself is the rule on gambling areas that today was not about and which was adopted on January 23, 2012. And from which is the condition that casinos and bookshops can only be opened at a greater distance than 500 meters on religious and educational educational institutions. And today we have a problem in Zadar because one such facility has been opened practically next to the school yard, one school in Zadar and its opening has caused a whole series of protests and problems. I think it's a serious problem because he indirectly encourages minors to start betting and gambling, and it's right under the nose of an educational institution. And you don't have to say what kind of vice it is and what it can all lead to. Is it possible for us to sacrifice our children for a better charge of the state budget and that this is more important to us than a whole series of young people?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74127	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74128	Thank you very much. Well, I don't think it's a state budget decision, but probably because of someone who can open something. The logical thing to say is this kind of fun is the most dangerous thing for children. And it's very hard to estimate if someone is 18 or 16 years old, but if his bookies or something like that or some kind of automated club plant in front of a school or somewhere else or in front of a church, the logical thing is that it will attract him, that curiosity and this and that and unfortunately we get a potential gambling addict, about betting, and that's social evil both as alcohol and as drugs and as any other addiction. And I don't understand why this rule has changed, so more than that, when that rule was passed then those objects that were opened before that regulation in certain spaces that were within these borders, and they weren't very close to primary schools and religious objects, could have stayed, but no one else got permission. It was probably not changed because of the budget, but because someone had an interest in making such a decision. But I repeat, surely such objects should not be opened near school.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74129	Ivan Simunović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74130	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, we see that in 2013 Croatians invested more than six billion kunas in various games. Of course the government wants to grab that pot of gold. Understandable need, given the fact that only less than 10% of that revenue has ended up in the state budget. What the government doesn't see is that this jug is actually imaginary, there's nothing in it. Lately, we have a bookies expansion in Croatia, and gambling is generally booming. The reason for that is known to everyone, only the few say it out loud. As society slides down, people have less and less hope that the situation will improve. Betting them is their investment in better today, in home budgeting. For some, it's the only source of income. For this reason, there are also gold - buying shops today. Not because the Croats have excess gold, but because most of it has become a straw of salvation. These two phenomena are part of the same process of generally failing society. The government instead of making moves that will give people hope in opening jobs and repairing the Croatian economy's blood count, is looking for instant budgetary solutions. None of the... solutions will stop a steep drop to the bottom. Instead of allowing people to use their skills for something productive, something that will bring them real money and provide existence, it deals with taxation of everything and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74131	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74132	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74133	Turn on the microphone. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74134	One of these monsters has as much as possible pushed into legal waters as possible to be as small as possible illegal. I repeat, illegal Internet betting, here you can now enter several pages and you will see, it is unfortunately the most accessible to these very young people and it is the government at this moment that I, as far as I know, can hardly prevent, if you can do great. But then let's not move with this decision to make this stronger so that those who do this think and how to apologize and how to cheat on the government, actually the one who controls this together. So the point is to pass a law that will allow us to say as much as we control this process that can be socially dangerous because after this, it goes somewhere else. Let us not forget that we have some old members of the European Union where betting is tradition, lifestyle, and even high society. Just take an example of England, etc. Therefore, there is something we cannot prevent, as a tourist country we simply must have, but let's not cause some small things simply to make an even bigger mess and even bigger problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74135	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74136	Final draft law amending the law on gambling, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 631. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes for and 26 abstentions have been accepted and decided to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the proposing representative to explain the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment number one to the Honored Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74137	Thank you, Mr. President. Amendment to Article 1 and amendment to Article 2 proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74138	One by one respected minister, because he has a different procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74139	Okay, thanks. The amendment to Article 1 is the result of a parliamentary debate on amendments to the Law on taxation of gambling gains. The debates and clubs and MPs estimated that it was good to increase taxation, but estimated that lower profits should be freed from taxation, while increasing the progressive taxation of larger profits, as this would result in the same effects for the state budget, but at the same time detimising those who play for large gains and risky gains, and on the other hand those who see it as a small-income party should not be demoted. So that's why we added in Article 1 that the profit tax is paid at a rate of 10% above 750 kuna to 10 000 kuna, at a rate of 15% from 10,000 to 30,000, at a rate of 20% from 30,000 to 500,000 and over 500,000 at a rate of 30%.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74140	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm opening a debate. There are no interested, there are. Honorable representative Ivan Schuker. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74141	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. In the light of this amendment of yours, there are two discrepancies left. One thing you mean by profit is that it was in the parliamentary debate to point out whether it was the total amount that was paid or whether it was the difference between paid and paid. And the other thing that was on the Committee on Finance, and also in the parliamentary debate, does it mean that if someone gets, say, 35,000 kunas to be taxed, from 750 to 10,000 kuna with a 10% rate, from 10 to 20 thousand kuna with a 15% rate and an amount of over 30,000 kuna at a rate of 20%, or do you think that the amount of 35,000 kuna is taxed with that rate that it is? Why am I talking, because it's an unfair taxation if you're taxing the amount of 29 999 kuna with one rate, and then you're taxing the amount of 30 002 kuna with a rate that's 5% higher and that's something that's pushing us back into the gray zone that's been around so far, which is to split the payments. So that's something we have in practice, which the IRS has data that it happens that way and that's why we're in the debate here at the plenary session, and we've also warned the board. After all, it is also in line with telling some tax norms that by a certain amount one tax is paid, above that amount is paid the rate to be determined. But I understand you mean 35,000 is paid a full rate, without this graded part, and if that is so, I think, unfortunately, in Croatia, it will begin to rule illegal Internet betting and that is what is far more dangerous for young Croats, so for children aged 15 to 16 because it is a system. ... Comrade Cain, I beg you nicely. [[You can't hear it.]] I'm clearly explaining. If you have any problems, come to the pay phone and tell them So, what scares me... [[Adversity President: You just carry on your respected representative, and let me handle Caina.]] Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament for this debate on this amendment I came forward for the reason that the HDZ Club and in individual debates it was spoken at the plenary session. [[- Intruder Cain, you don't understand.]] [[I'd like you to meet my colleague Cain, please. You'll get a warning unnecessarily. This really doesn't make sense, let the man speak, the representative has the right to speak.]] I am saying this because colleagues who have been experts in this area on the Committee on Finance have pointed to this problem. And the third thing is Macedonia's experience. When Macedonia did one similar thing over 30% of those who bet went to the gray zone, which is so-called. A black Internet betting I don't know. If the finance ministry at this point has the ability to control every honor, but I know as much as I do it's a totally black zone and it's the biggest problem since it's an Internet betting, and we know that the young population is still the most online if we're pushing them into deeper cubes. So the intention to release this small amount was precisely because certain things could be kept under control and can be seen. But the key thing is, so in this amendment of yours, it will depend, of course, on the vote of our own as a club whether you plan to tax as I understand it. So the total amount that goes above someone at one rate or we'll go as we say pay income tax to one amount at that rate, above that amount per second. And I think it's just and it's fairest and that's how we're going to have a clear situation. And let me rephrase that, given that my colleague Cain has entered the definition of winning. Whether winning is all that's paid in the bookies or winning is the difference between the payment and what's the gain you get. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74142	Thank you. Are there any others reported for discussion? Yeah. Minister of Finance esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74143	As a result, Mr. Schucker is the difference between the payment and what is obtained. And also taxation goes exactly the way it's said. So if the win is 15000 from 750 to 10000 is 10%, and 10 to 15000 is 15%. That's how it's named and that's how it's taxed. And that's just what's the difference between being paid and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74144	Thank you very much. It's very understandable for us who aren't professional financiers. Are the others answering for a word? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. Please state who is for amendment number one of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? What's the score? I find that the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been accepted unanimously by 106 votes to become an integral part of the final draft law. Dear Ministers of Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as referred to in Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74145	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, the same amendments are only in other articles of the law, so there's no need to repeat them. Therefore, the non-taxable part of up to 750 kuna, taxed at progressively higher rates, is taxed only on the difference between profits and wages and is taxed on such progressive scales. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74146	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I am closing the debate on Amendment number two of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I am asking you to state who is in favour of Amendment number two? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? What's the score? I note that Amendment number two of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been adopted unanimously by 104 votes in favour. It became an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I'm making the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? What's the score? I find that, unanimously with 107 votes, we have passed the Law amending the law on gambling in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74147	We move on to - Final bill on the short payment of salary increases based on years of work experience, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 635 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. You received their reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, he will introduce a proposal from Labour and Pension System Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74148	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs, respected MPs. Given that there have been a lot of stories over the day about economic and financial indicators that clearly show that Croatia is in a difficult economic situation due to years of recession, which is confirmed by reduced industrial production. The number of persons employed has dropped by nearly 200 000, on the other hand we have an increase in the number of pensioners by more than 70 000, we are approaching the ratio of 1 to 1 and all of this creates pressure on the state budget, and clearly, given the expenditures we have and the excessive deficit procedure set up at European Union level, we must make certain changes in the expenditure side of the state budget, especially in parts related to the expenditures themselves in public and state services. There will be more speeches about this when it comes to budget rebalancing. What we are going to talk about today, and before you is the proposal for a law on the right to increase wages based on years of employment, is an necessity that imposes a review of the costs of working in the public service and public services, especially those negotiated in better economic circumstances, in order to maintain fiscal stability of the costs of employees in state bodies and public services, and to enable the maintenance of the existing level of employment, which means preserving existing jobs and, on the other hand, the maintenance of salary payments in public and state services. Given that some material rights and pay increases in state and public services, as I have already mentioned, have been agreed in better economic times, it has been shown that certain collective agreements interpret and negotiate certain rights in a different way. At the same time, some of the collective agreements are still applicable within a three-month notice, and while respecting the fact that the material rights of employees in state and public services are financed as a rule from equal public and fiscal revenues, special care should be taken to ensure that the scope and height of their rights is uniform. This Law proposes that employees in state and public services be denied the right to a percentage increase in the complexity of jobs, i.e. an increase in wages 4, 8 and 10 percentage points after 20, 30 and 35 years of employment contracted by collective agreements for both civil service employees and public service employees. I note that this increase in the complexity of jobs based on a working internship was originally agreed on for teachers and teachers and teachers in primary and secondary schools so that the coefficient which was extremely low would rise to a level suitable for primary and secondary education and, after some time, expand to the entire system of public and state administration. A word is a supplement that is negotiated in different ways in collective agreements, so employees in state and public services did not achieve equal increases on this basis. I note that everyone who works in the public service is increased by 0.5% per year of internship. So in certain collective agreements, this coefficient of increase was increased to the coefficient. In some activities, it increases on the basis, and in some activities it increases the amount of pay equal to the base base and the addition of 0.5% per year of work. This is the only addition that is one basis and two additions, so it increases by 0.5 per year of work, but also by 4, 8 and 10 also per year of work. In some contracts, collective agreements increase 4, 8, 10 regardless of whether the number of years have been spent in a particular service while other collective agreements involve this in the service of 4, 8 and 10 years. This means that the increase coefficient itself was not evenly distributed, because if we talk about this coefficient, so 4, 8, 10, he is the coefficient of loyalty in the ministry and was treated that way. While in some contracts it was extrapolated to a full-time internship no matter how long it was conducted in public and public service and whether a person spent 10 years in public service or, for example, two years outside public service, 8 years in public service applied the same coefficient. Therefore, not all public service employees were in the same position. Furthermore, the diversity is seen also in the fact that in some activities the right, as I have already mentioned, is being implemented on the whole of the internship, and in some activities only to the internship in a particular institution or activity. However, although it is the right resulting from collective agreements on the objective of maintaining employment in state and public services, there is a need for a law for a temporary period of time to deprive the payment of that allowance. More specifically, this is a supplement which, as well as a 0.5 supplement for each completed year of work, means it is achieved on the same basis, depending on the years of work. We propose that, in 2014 from the adoption of this law until the end of the year, the right to double salary increases in question, on the same basis, be put out of force. In this respect, it should be noted that, in line with international standards, it is a measure of temporary character for which the time-limit of the said right will be evened in all collective agreements so that all employees in state and public services are in the same position. I note that what needs to be done is the new Law on Salaries, and through this new Law on Salaries, this problem, which is related to the progress of the years of work experience, i.e. the increase of wages based on years of work experience, should be addressed in a uniform manner for the whole system. The salaries of officials and subsistence employees of state and public services constitute a multiplier of the complexity of the job right at which the official and the subsistent are assigned and the basis for calculating the salary at zero five for each completed year of work. It remains and the right remains. What we propose to this 2014 law is not to be paid, to deny the right to 4, 8 and 10 percentage points after the completion of 20, 30 and 35 years of employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74149	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74150	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, this proposal of yours lacks a series of data because it's a total amount somewhere whether it's 450 or 520 million at this point is irrelevant. But it's a large amount, to count how many those have 4, 6, 8 and 10% of the additions. However, the key thing you forgot to say, this came up after a reduction in wages from 20% to 40% in 2001 after a major strike of educators. That's when that collective contract was signed. And that collective contract wasn't signed by anyone like this, and later others used those rights. But it is also necessary to say here that all those who have been calculating this supplement to those who have not been in service for so many years have been working against the law. That's why they have to be held accountable. For if it is a compensation for the loyalty of the ministry, then it is known what it means. But I repeat, that we may be able to discuss this problem, then there are certain things that need to be said clearly. Why? Because it's often heard in political stories about how these contracts are signed and those kind of contracts. So this collective contract is exactly who signed it. I'll tell you who signed it, then the vice president of the government for the simple reason because there was a big protest of the educators and that it calmed down it was made. Just as in the 12th month, a decision was made to grow 3% since 1.01.2004, although everyone at that time knew there was no money for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74151	Replication response, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74152	So, I totally agree with you, and you've pointed out exactly where the problem was. In 2001, too, this was resolved by additions 4, 8 and 10. And what we also did when we sent this law into the parliamentary procedure emphasized that this part of 4, 8 and 10 that is related to the education of teachers and teachers will be evaluated in a different way, so what was intended for them is that in that particular basis and remains and will be the subject of the government's decision. And as for illegality, the whole of the social internship that has been achieved, and in education, it is related to the overall internship. Yeah, and those collective contracts weren't signed by this government. And so this government did not sign a collective social care contract or a collective education contract, but was signed by the HDZ government. Therefore, if we talk about who signed such contracts, then we should ask the ministers who decided and agreed to do so in a collective contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74153	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleagues Ivan Shuker and Davorin Mlakar will speak. Davorin Mlakar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74154	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We heard part of the argument, at one point I thought the minister should be corrected but I hope it was just a mistake when he talked about 4, 8 and 10 years of internships carried out, I hope that he spoke and that we understood well that the percentages applied to the internship for the 20, 30 and 35 years of work being achieved because it is a very important difference when it is heard in public like this. This supplement that we are talking about today was called the addition to faithfulness in the ministry, and I would like to say a few words for those and for those mentioned here today. They're civil servants, they're public officials. What I can say with greater certainty is that somewhere the average net salary of civil servants is around 3800 kuna. Just so we know what categories we're talking about when we're talking about cutting their salaries. What is more important than that, and that means small, low-income civil servants, is the fact that in our country very often everyone who enters talks about poor administration, about the globular administration, about an administration that does not serve modern methods in its work. And you'll hear in the last 30 years that everyone who has talked about what to do and what we want to have that we want to have a small, efficient, well-paid and highly educated state service or if you want the administration not to use the term red tape. This today is another measure that goes further and further than that goal that everyone wants to highlight as something we need. This is going the other way. In principle, there is talk of how much savings will be in the budget if these measures are applied, but I am not even sure that this calculation is correct. We're talking about people who were supposed to have an increased salary after 20, 30 and 35 years of work. At the same time, we're talking about people whose incomes are low. We're talking about people you expect very much from, and in your ministry, which is proposed by this law, these same civil servants you should pay for their work. And we are all aware that there are more than enough people in most of our institutions and businesses, but there are always too few quality people who should do the job. And then by this measure, you're going to say to them all, linearly, you're going to cut the receipts, and you're going to expect to have an effective, educated, if you want a fast and modern state administration. These measures can't do that. This measure goes right for us to have an even weaker state administration. These measures, of course, also go towards public services, and this will happen in public services, and then again and again, we will wonder why we cannot have a better quality, public service and service of the state administration. We can't because of these measures. And these measures are not something that will save the country, get out of the crisis because you cut their wages. I'm not in favour of calculating 50 different supplements on the salary. It was never good and it did not give the right picture of what people are like in the state administration or in public services, but then it is done systematically, then it is done in the way you said in the introduction of Mr. Minister, first to propose a new Law on Salaries. We also had such solutions with a law that knew paying classes, so there you can calculate these 0.5% per year internships in the value of payment classes and you can work out some real relations in all these services and in some way, at least make the state and public service attractive if not already competitive private sector. This way you're just cutting their wages, you're not gonna do it. In conclusion, what you didn't say and what's the basic problem of this bill. As Government, you are obliged to conduct collective negotiations, this has been warned by the independent union of employees in the secondary schools of Croatia who sent letters to representatives of the Croatian Parliament and invites them not to vote the law on short payment, pay increases based on years of work experience. All of us have also received a letter from the union of state and local officials and deputies warning of two things. If such a law is passed they will benefit from their rights and will initiate a judicial procedure for the protection of their rights and if they get the state they will be obliged to pay very high fees and to be applied to what it has made me so violently, without conducting a collective bargaining procedure to which it is mandatory. That's what it says in the union letter I was talking about, and the union warns us all not only about the proposings but also about us in the Parliament to stick to what's prescribed, and it's prescribed that you must collectively negotiate before you come to such solutions. In this way as you have suggested, you have avoided collective bargaining, you have, in fact, promised in the collective negotiations that you have completed when civil servants gave up both the regression and the goddesses then committed to not touching their salaries. All of this lasted, as I would say, and the budget that you have proposed for only a few months, and now we have the opportunity to be bombarded with their legitimate demands because you have exercised their trust and instead of negotiating, instead of negotiating, you have come with an amendment of the law, of course, by an urgent procedure to reduce their rights in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74155	Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74156	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So I would go chronologically for the reasons of three events that basically led to this law. The first is that famous 20-40% pay cut in the same violent way, so after the strike, he produced a collective contract like this. However, this reduction of 20% and 40% of the salary of 20-40% in this way, as proposed by this law, produced a series of lawsuits that the state budget primarily cost almost 2 billion kuna in respect of education and employees at the Ministry of Interior in 2002-2006. You can see that in the resolution ministries and you'll see. So one of these ways simply can't go unpunished. The second event was, by the arrival of 2000, paid classes in the Republic of Croatia were abolished. Payment classes are nothing more than a fair and quality evaluation of those who are quality and who do their job and punish those who do not do their job. It is simply not all equal and based on the Payment Class Act that someone from the pay grade can advance practically every year or two if it works well and also one who does not work well, if they get negative grades after some time gets fired in the public service. And I don't think any of the civil servants, civil servants, are against it. So we're interested in having a professional and quality service but we're not going to have it this way, some sort of angler and cut everyone equally. We're just not gonna do it. And so, if it's been two years and nothing's done, I don't see any reason why this wouldn't wait a while longer and bring a new bill of wages to work in this way as far as payment reasons are concerned. The third key event, which is why this law, must be adopted is the famous signing of requests for a referendum in 2010 in the sixth month. So this was one of those provisions that was to be settled in accordance with the law, so the law would put all collective agreements out of force and start with a new collective bargaining. If that were done then, count on how many of these past six years only the money with the basis of fairer payouts would be spent because I repeat it doesn't have to mean if the amount of money is reduced, that the salary will be reduced. It's simply not true, but we will reward those who work. And what's wrong with what's happening in Croatia is that there is no more collective bargaining. The government, when it cannot do what it wants, is simply making decisions and does not care what the consequences will be. So do you think this could have been brought in this way so that it wouldn't have been done for some years when the crisis was far more dangerous than it is today? And what tells me is that this is an ad hoc measure, when someone suggests that this law will be valid until 31.12.2014, and as a reason for the adoption of this law, the measures of the excessive deficit are spoken of. There is no economic shift that will take place in Croatia in the next 9 months that we will receive 500 million kuna in the budget and that we will be able to secure this money next year. It's just not true and it's not good because, why? In the 1st month or 12th month, when you adopt the budget, you will have to discuss this law again, but with the extension of the deadline because you will not have 500 million on the revenue side and it is not good and it is not correct when a law is passed that has a strong impact on people's fates because I repeat, in the state services there is unfortunately a qualification structure such that more than 50% of the medium professional arrangement, with this basis is a small salary. The second thing, most of these people have over 20 years of work experience and you will, you won't, we cut their wages 4.5%, that's a lot of them. That's a lot to them. And that's something that simply gives one of the government's social insensitivity due to its inability to solve the problem systematically. The more you and the prime minister emphasized that there is no pay cut because it says, but we will touch the bonuses on the salary. If you said it yourself, and look at your phonogram, you said it, that this salary supplement is a day's pay in public services because of their rise, let me say, the value of the work they've been completely offended at the time their salaries are reduced by the basis of a signed agreement with the IMF by 20% or 30%. So, you yourself said it wasn't any pay addition, it was something that simply corrects a certain injustice. Now that you have to cut it, it's an allowance. And this is just an indication that this problem has to be solved systematically, and it can be systematically solved only with payment classes where through the coefficients it will simply evaluate all the specificities of the business that exist in both the state and public services, with the payment classes being for state services due to the specificity of the job being one and the public service paying class due to the specificity of the business of the other. And the other thing is, you really should think about what to do with the M.O.P.'s salaries because they have a special story. Therefore, without it, a colleague and a colleague, this will only cause a series of lawsuits. Unfortunately again, we slap those of whom we expect to be carriers of removing administrative barriers to improving the investment climate in the Republic of Croatia, in this way we simply won't do it. So, Mr. Minister, although we have proposed a Labour Act that would allow negotiations for this, we cannot simply support such a proposal for violent change because this simply shows a lack of communication and insults all employees of state and public services, and I say, it is not good to insult those who raise you children and those who should bring you some nicer climate in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74157	Vanja Posavac, replica to the exhibition of Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74158	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear colleague, I agree with you when you said that this measure as the only one will not save the country, but that is why there are a series of measures that we must implement to actually maintain stability in the country. Except for the state and public services of such additions, so to speak, on salary in the private sector, there is hardly any and that is a fact. I remind you and this is mentioned, I think that one of you mentioned the minister, in fact, it was due to the signing of collective agreements with, therefore, teachers and teachers in primary and secondary schools, and then, in their collective agreements, they took on others and of course interpreted it the way they wanted them to. It was then taken over in schools just to protect intern workers, 20, 30, 35 years of internship. I agree that in state and public services there should be quality personnel, but I do not agree with you when you said that the state and public service are not attractive. It is very attractive, much more attractive than unfortunately the private sector, and then we can really ask ourselves what we need to do in terms of how it really is uniform and quality and how it should be to really do their job in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74159	The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74160	My colleague, I was talking about something that seemed to me to be notorious and which is worth some kind of offended opinion, public opinion for at least twenty years. That it's a private sector, which means banks, insurance companies, large companies, much more attractive to work than public service. If you've never heard of it because I see that you're surprised and you think exactly the opposite, then I suggest you read a little bit of the work of those who spoke about the state of the public service, in the public sector, and why are these places unattractive? Of all the high-quality, and especially highly educated people, you usually stayed, I will conditionally say that I do not offend anyone, at the worst or those who were least inclined to change because they are the best for you from students to young experts who have picked up right in this private sector. If you haven't heard of it, then perhaps during this time you haven't followed the public Croatian to know what I was talking about. The service is still unattractive, that service is still overrated, and I'm always coming back and I'm going to go back to working here and reviewing these materials, bringing the laws to a good place, and because of the work of those civil servants that you keep cutting wages to. I advocate that you stop doing this, they can't be the victims of the measures of recession and bear the burden of some of our measures that we will recover the economy, that's not true, that's not the way we can go or do anything about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74161	On behalf of the Association of Independent Representatives, colleagues Grubisic and Kajin are not present, so they lose the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74162	I thank the esteemed vice president. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support the proposal for a law on the shortfall of the right to increase wages based on years of work experience. Namely, as a result of the multiannual recession of the Republic of Croatia, it is in a difficult economic situation and it is a fact of fact. Real economic activity in 2012 was lower by almost 11% compared to 2008, while industrial production decreased by more than 16%, the number of employees increased and the number of pensioners increased by more than 70,000. In 2013, further negative movements were recorded despite all measures taken by the Government. Unfortunately, the deterioration of domestic macroeconomic conditions aided by negative developments in the international environment has had a significant impact on the weaker collection of budget revenues that would have been even more pronounced if there had been no legal changes to the tax system. The cost of public debt financing, which has increased significantly due to the many years of deficits and the debts of public enterprises as a result of poor governance, largely determines the flow of expenditure. The expenditure arising from public debt and interest limits the movement of all other categories of budgetary expenditure and a realistic and slow recovery of economic growth in the coming years will further increase the level of public debt already exceeding 60% of GDP in 2014. As a result of such unfavourable movements in the economy, retaining the right of the current legal provisions would mean pressure on further growth of the lack of public debt budget. The increase in fiscal imbalances could lead to a further decline in credit rating and further rise in prices, government debt and the overall economic system. This would be a burden on the overall competitiveness of the economy and the sustainability of the debt. The necessity of reviewing labour costs in state and public services is imposed. The legal arrangement of new opportunities must be adapted, as well as the redefining of certain rights. A number of collective agreements apply in the field of work of state and public services. agreements and other contracts concluded in better times and in a better economic situation. The salaries of public service employees are accounted for as a multiple of the base for the calculation of salaries and 0.5% for each completed year of internship. In doing so, collective contracts for employees of state-run public services have further agreed the right to a percentage increase in the complexity of jobs, i.e. an increase in salaries by 4, 8 and 10% after 20, 30 and 35 years of employment, and it is achieved in a way that, by the basis of one part of collective agreements, which are secondary and primary education and social care, the percentage increase also depends on the overall regular internship achieved, and by the other part, that is, the state service, science and higher education, health and culture depend on the employment experience in the institutions of the relevant activity. Since income of 0.5% for each completed year of work is added to collective contracts, the agreed salary increase by 4, 8 and 10% on the same basis, and we are talking about state and public services in terms of the economic crisis and the excessive deficit is justified because of fiscal sustainability and preservation of employment for 2014 and deny the right to double salary increases in question on the same legal basis. As a result, it is planned that the costs of the state budget for employees of state and public services will be reduced by around 500 million kuna in 2014. That right to increase salaries based on years of internships would be withheld from 1 April to 31 December 2014. In short, these rights will only result from contractual obligations, and not from laws and regulations, an appropriate part of the necessary savings will be achieved in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. The cost of working in state and public services must be reduced in order to preserve as many jobs as possible and due to the economic and financial crisis. At the same time, however, there are proposals for rules aimed at equating wages in public and public services by adopting equal criteria in order to pay equal wages for equal work. Because of the above-mentioned SDP club, it supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74163	Replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74164	My colleague Posavac, I understand your concern for the poor economic situation of the state, for the debt, for the possible higher interest due to all this, but you must also understand that this measure may make it possible for a part of the civil servants and public servants to not be able to settle their obligations and therefore to find themselves in a blockade. So it's not a unilateral process. That's one way to say the law of a coupled vessel. And when things like this are done, then we have to think about achieving each other, and that can be done. It can be done with the Payments Law, then all those who receive some supplements that do not belong to them will be eliminated, and these supplements will be given to those to whom they belong and to whom we can rely. Therefore, the ad hoc cutting has never made a solution. Structural changes and their reduction of the expenditure side are something that is permanent. This isn't permanent. This is a question if tomorrow's court proceedings are launched how many states are going to lose on this because of maybe 150 or 200 kuna a month. ... a few dozen thousand lawsuits, a bill of each case of 1,000 and another kuna, a process of two, three years, when they're counting on all that tight interest state will cost it 10 times more but then it'll be paid by someone else and then someone else will say it's some kind of skeleton. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have different skeletons in the Republic of Croatia but here we are talking about living people and it is simply not good in this simple way to make a decision, we gave up on that in 2010 although I repeat in 2010 it was a far more complex and difficult situation than today. We gave up because we couldn't make a deal. We didn't want to go violently to do anything for the reason we were charged with lawsuits and lost disputes over two billion kunas we paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74165	The answer to the replica Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74166	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, I fully agree with you that structural changes are needed. And that's what I was actually talking about, I come from education, so since I intend to go back to education because I think I can still do a lot of things there, this gets me, too, definitely. However, I must also say as an educational worker, I have studied this and I have studied these collective agreements, etc., that indeed, and we have said this on the board, we need to even the coefficients, we need to do what is also announced with this law, so that for the same pay, for the same job, the same work is paid. Unfortunately for me, and as far as I'm concerned, I'm only going to take an example of high school, I've worked for one period in four high schools, every collective contract has been interpreted in its own way, and that's what really needs to end.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74167	Gold shower replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74168	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Posavac, in your presentation, you looked back on the difficult situation in the country, the economic problems but you said one sentence that collective agreements were signed in better times with greater rights. What does that mean, when times come harder then collective agreements should no longer be signed? Should the issue of workers' rights, or should there continue to be a social partnership, negotiations and talks with social partners and seek the best solutions in the country's interest? Or there's only one side and in this case it's the government that exclusively regulates certain issues with its legal solutions. It's not good, it's not good for this country and time will show your that you've made quite a big mistake but it'll end up on your soul.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74169	The answer to the replica Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74170	Thank you. When I said in my sentence that collective agreements were signed in better times, I didn't think that today was no longer signed and I absolutely support social dialogue. However, the fact that we cannot retain all the rights from those years when these really recessions have not been in us or in the world and that some things still have to change. And as I said before the opportunity and the debate on the Labour Act, the question is how many and what unions and I don't call anyone ready to actually sit down and talk. Some have expressed their will and I say it publicly today, but in some I'm afraid it's a slightly bigger problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74171	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labour-Stranka Work, colleague Zlatko Tušak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74172	Thank you very much, Vice President, Honorable Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. This presentation on the Proposal for a Law on the Shortening of the Right to Increase Salaries on the basis of years of work experience with the Final Proposal of the Law I will begin with a single sentence issued by our prime minister, the contracts must be respected, when there was a purchase of cars and when the big halabuca rose publically about it. What does that mean? This means only contracts should be respected when it comes to cars, luxury and spending money, and when it comes to workers, contracts need not be respected. Then collective agreements can be changed, legal regulations can be passed, certain provisions of certain collective agreements reduced and denied the rights of workers. We also had in 12 months, there is a regulation that the government has denied the material rights of employees in public services in the short term of Christmas and a regress for vacations. Today I asked the committee if this law regulates the right of workers in the state services and the public sector of those who have an internship for more than 20 years. I was basically interested in what number of people are concerned because these people are going to get hit, they're going to have fewer incomes. I couldn't get that answer today, and that's kind of unprepared for passing these laws and not being able to answer a single banal question, a law that will apply to the number of employees. Because all those who say that only collective agreements were concluded in some better time, and when it comes to this right of 4% for those who have a working position from 20 to 29 years, 8% for those between 30 and 34 years and 10% over 35 years, it is not true, because in the 12th month this same government signed a collective contract for health care and in Article 60 of that collective contract the same provision was regulated. Now I'm asking myself a question, which has suddenly happened since 12 months, this government is signing a collective agreement with these rights, and two months later, they suddenly remembered in the government that these rights should still be brought into line with the law, and not trying before that to talk to the unions, or to launch an initiative to amend the collective agreement, and even today we've heard from the unions that they were willing to talk, that they were willing to negotiate. This way you can see the haughtiness of this government, that it's not for the social partnership, that it's not for the collaboration with the unions, but only it has to be the way they decided and there's no more talking about it. So what happens next? It is said here that certain legal solutions will be needed, probably in this year or early next year, we will discuss these legal solutions, but then we will have a cemented position with certain rights and then we will say no, it is a difficult situation, the economic situation remains difficult in Croatia, we cannot talk about some larger rights of workers. Where all this is leading us all together I don't know, but I do know that today it has been said that by the basis of this law if it is adopted that somewhere around 500 million kunas will be secured savings in the budget, but we have to count on one fact that it is a gross salary, that it is immediately a matter of both taxes and contributions that automatically return to the budget that means that this amount is not so much, but we also have to count on that other fact, that the purchasing power of citizens will be reduced. By reducing the purchasing power of citizens will be less bought, less will be 25% based on the purchase of VAT, so this amount of 500 million kuna we're talking about is quite different. The actual calculation is exactly the same and not even someone found it appropriate to calculate it, to present it to us here in the Parliament, and to talk about such an important law based on the arguments when it comes to the fate of people and their receipts. I think it's the final clamper of the government because in the 12th month something supports it, and here at the 2nd month with a legal solution it denies it the same thing. And now one question is raised, the unions here announced that they would take all possible action on this because clearly they have their right, and in this way a lot of laws were pushed into this House, so the Constitutional Court then reacted. So we had that it was a curricula of health care that the Constitutional Court annulled, retroactive taxation of dividends we had. Before the end of the year, he illegally declared a work obligation for strike doctors, now the latest Constitutional Court has suspended the Law on the restoration of the endangered monumental unit in Dubrovnik. It's very easy on these arguments because it's going to have to do with the government... the arguments that in the 12th month she regulated something with some collective contract, and in the 2nd month it also suspended with a certain law in the second collective contract of those rights of workers. And that damage will end up being paid again, but I think that time has already slowly begun that in this country we have to ask a question of responsibility. When I talked about these four laws, no one asked questions, but someone was responsible for it. If laws are passed which are not agreed, which already have some rule that they have certain legal uncertainty and that part of legal certainty is not created among citizens, then we cannot believe certain legal solutions and ultimately here in this House if we are discussing certain laws of our opposition we are not taking seriously, we are not taking arguments but are coming on that Friday when most laws are passed and then, within that, we will have to take the matter of responsibility for this everything they propose and for this everything they vote on. The worst part is that certain things that have been negotiated with trade unions that are prescribed in collective agreements, which is also prescribed as a right with international conventions on labour in such a violent, harsh way, which is not good for one country and clearly that they will have certain consequences. Croatian Labourists will not support such a bill in their sleep, because first they had to talk to the trade unions, negotiate, and then on the basis of the arguments and the fact that they failed to reach this agreement then propose a law that would come here to the Assembly for discussion and then, as a legislative body, they could also, on the basis of the arguments and assess whether to pass such laws or not, but not like this, if the trade unions had simply bypassed and with such an emergency procedure, wish to reduce their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74173	We're moving on to an individual debate. Comrade Goran Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74174	Thank you very much. In the light of the proposals of this law and in the debates, it was heard about the situation currently in society, especially in the economy. It has been indicated that 200,000 are less employed, that we are approaching the ratio of 1 pensioner and 1 employee, that the economic downturn that macroeconomic indicators are negative and that it is necessary to take measures. Even so, measures have been taken under cover of job conservation and increasing economic activity. How is it possible that, with so many measures under cover of job conservation and increasing economic growth, there is a reduction in employment, i.e. an increase in unemployment and an economic downturn? The only excuse after that would be even worse and the economic downturn would have been even bigger if we hadn't taken those measures. I cannot agree to such a burden, because there is no bill that I would not support if it would contribute to a better situation and improve the bad situation. But the legislative proposal must be preceded by an analysis of the existing situation, the causes of such a situation, the effects that will result from the proposal for a new law, and the consequences that will result. And there's not a single economic category that carries only negatively or only positively. And it is necessary to carefully approach whether the negativity will be stronger, more pronounced than the positivity they bear. It's said that the expenditure side of the state budget should be reduced and I don't think there's anyone who deals with the economy that he's not aware of. Of course you should, but the question is what and what reduction won't work negatively, which reduction will just act against the desired effects. Never before has economic history shown that under the conditions of crisis, recession and depression, wage cuts lead to an improvement in the economic situation. It has not yet been recorded by economic history. Whether these salaries are a problem, whether their height is a problem, which will be achieved by their reduction. A reduction in the rights based on internships is actually a reduction in salary. Is it more useful to cut the salary of the one that is above, say, 15000 kuna or to cut the wages that range from 5 to 8,9000 kuna? Payments, reducing expenditure that will directly affect the reduction of the available income, thereby reducing and spending and thus reducing demand, all leading to a reduction in production only to a new economic downturn. But there are expenditures to be reduced, and it won't cause a decrease in consumption. There's more than 15,000 kuna wages nobody touches. Today we are witnessing public announcements, although I have known of this information for a long time that the salary increase in a state institution is greater to individuals than the total wages that are now being touched. Imagine yourself in such conditions increasing the salary by an amount greater than the salary of this which we are now reducing. And we look at it and we say that this is going to have an effect, and we ignore this as if it's good, it's socially useful. How many unnecessary costs of a device by flying every day in the first class of Boing of this or that, how many intellectual services it is unnecessary to pay, how many cars are angry and hanged unnecessarily purchased. I'm not saying that 1200 cars don't need at least half of them, but I'm sure it's harmful for half the agencies to give the car at all because they have nothing to use it for, nor can they use it, nor should they use it. But the most important thing is the smart phones on thousands of pieces and cars of 1200 pieces, while at the same time maintaining existing cars are the same costs as they were. What about donations to associations? Not a single lip has been cut, but we'll cut the salary. There will be no effect. What about the tenants? So what's the irony of the State Department of State Property Management having a seat in a rented space and paying it 14 euros per metre square. So what's the irony of the present... and we touch the pay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is ungrateful to be the minister of work who has to propose such measures, and it does not affect what I'm talking about and does nothing to affect economic growth or economic downturn. But this measure will have an additional impact, and this measure will prove wrong, not anti-recessional, but pro-recessional. Someone show me an example of where it worked this way. There's no such example. But I agree that spending should be reduced. But you know what they're spending. Those of you who don't affect the reduction in consumption, and there are, I guarantee 5 billion kuna. But we, I'm going to say, I have to tell you directly who this is about, we're watching the CNB administration raise its wages by six, seven thousand kunas, and there's 30, 40 thousand net kuna. And we're reducing those who have 5, 6 or 7 thousand kuna. We will not achieve what is achieved, and I have no doubt in my mind the intention of achieving it may be achieved, but with this measure, you will not open any job, and you will not encourage any economic activity, nor will you improve the current situation. It's more worth trying to reduce the country's debt and reduce interest by 0.5% and it can be taken over a hundred of these measures, a hundred. 0.5% just cut interest on RS debt. But then you'd raise all the stakeholders behind it. And poor workers have no one to protect. Well, then there's nothing left but hitting the powerless. Don't let God touch someone powerful. The Croatian National Bank behaves in Croatia as an ex-terroral unit. Like it doesn't belong to the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. So who has the right to decide for themselves the terms and conditions of his work and his wages? Who's right? They take it for granted. No one knows how much they spend. How many separate funds in public procurement and how they conduct public procurement, no one should even know about it in this country. How much money they spend on rebuilding the facades and buying apartments around them no one can know. And for buying one apartment you can buy three. And until such things happen they can't possibly be for this kind of measure, but especially since it won't and can't be a measure that will help get out of the crisis. It will further deepen the crisis and disrupt social relations in Croatia, and I fear it will deepen the social distance, and then contribute to social unrest. But it should certainly be avoided because of this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74175	Thank you. Gold shower, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74176	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Maric fully agrees with your discussion when you said that with small wages we will not get out of the crisis because there is probably no such example in the world that someone can prove that someone with low wages has come out of the crisis. But with the pay cut, the message is given to others that they have a wide open door, so let them cut their wages because here's when the government does it, so why shouldn't they. And then we come to that vicious circle where in Croatia 1.3 million people or 30.7% of the population are on the verge of poverty and here we are at the top of the EU. And on the other hand, we have 260 multimillion people living in our country whose personal wealth is more than 30 million dollars or at least 171 million kuna, according to the data I've read, it doesn't have long. That part of taxation and in that part of the division of solving these problems is not discussed and does not want to be offered in that part of the solution but continues to be taken away from those who have low wages. Which clearly reduces the purchasing power of citizens in itself, they cannot meet all their obligations and cannot serve everything that has further consequences for the fall of standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74177	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74178	A colleague of Tušak and Empirical has been shown that reducing such wages will do nothing to help get out of the crisis because it reduces direct consumption. This structure of people with such salaries spends their total salary on food, directing, clothing even in debt to be able to spend more on the necessary needs. So everything they get spent in Croatia. And it's an incredible policy, although it's an unsustainable state of mind that the expenditures of the state budget grow faster than economic growth, we even have a decline and a growth in expenditure. That's what needs to be done. That should stop. But it's incredible if the former president's office isn't lifted, and he cuts his salary to a ten-hour worker who works every day for 4,5,000 kunas. It's an unworthy policy, and I don't trust that policy then. What does Croatia have from the office of the former president other than expenses? I don't trust anyone who has a higher salary than the President of the State, from the President of the Parliament, the President of the Government, the State's Attorney or the President of the Supreme Court. Who's allowed to have a higher salary? And they've got twice as much pay. And it's not a credible policy that doesn't affect the reduction of these salaries. And at the same time today, I said that only with one measure of one billion kuna can more to the state budget change only one law that all the National Bank's profits go to the state budget, one billion kuna more to the budget. But that's not what you want because there are some who hold the governor's tie and tighten around his neck. We even have photographs of it, and how come they don't listen to such governors when they're in the state, when they're out of the interest of the Republic of Croatia and they're out of the way of national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74179	Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic's closing statement. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74180	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow MPs and MPs. The law is here before you. It has limited action, so by the end of this year with the aim of balancing the expenditure side of the budget, parallelly with this going, and clear negotiations with the social partners, so also to point out that negotiations are already under way for the activities of the social, the activities of the culture, the education and education that the negotiating committee on collective agreements in the field of health is meeting tomorrow and that through all these contracts we will negotiate with the social partners and what this law has been denied on, I hope that everyone will understand the situation in which we are in parallel with this and we are also launching negotiations on the new Payments Act where this should be resolved. Therefore, for 2015, this shortfall, which is defined by this law, will be negotiated through collective agreements because it is something that we think is important to agree on in collective bargaining, noting that negotiations are ongoing and that I hope that there will be understanding by social partners. The final solution of this, therefore, is to be settled through the Payments Act, through payment classes, payments under degrees and coefficients, and thus also to be valued and work within the State and public service. The law has limited duration, until the end of this year, what I note is that at a time of crisis, the Government has the right to intervene in certain contractual relations. This was the International Labour Organisation on several occasions and ruled that at a time of crisis it could be denied a single right but that this right should be limited duration, so it should not and should not be permanent, as it is seen from this law, permanent shortfalls are not and through collective agreements we will arrange for 2015 and all other years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74181	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. We will discuss the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the selection of members in the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. Thank you very much and goodbye!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-12-0.u74182	Final draft law on the short payment of salaries based on years of work experience, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 635. The debate on the final text of the law is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law and I'm asking you to state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that most of the votes of 77 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 4 abstentions have been passed by the Law on the shortfall in salary pay on the basis of the years of employment in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
