ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76385	My colleagues and colleagues wish you a good day and we continue to discuss - The proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Nikola Tesla The motions for a decision are representatives of Mirela Holy, Damir Kajin and Davor Bernardić. You've received the motion for an act. When making a decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply, Article 194 to 202. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received their reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. On behalf of the promoter, a colleague of Mirela Holly and counterpart Davor Bernardić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76386	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning and this presentation, which, on behalf of fellow Members Davor Bernardic, Damir Caine and mine, I am defending the proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Nikola Tesla, I will read you a few of Tesla's statements. "From this war, the greatest in history, a new world must be born. A world that will justify the sacrifices that mankind endures. This new world must be a world where there will be no exploitation of the weak of the strong, the good of the wicked, where there will be no humiliation of the poor from the violence of the rich, where works of the mind, science and skills will serve the community for the relief and beauty of life, not for individuals to gain wealth. This new world cannot be a world of humbled, crushed, but a world of free men and peoples equal in dignity and respect for man." His second quote: "The great man is the one who, with his mental gifts and abilities, conceals other people, who, as a bee collects honey, collects knowledge, reveals new truths, but all these crowns with love of humanity, to help him get out of misery, fear, hunger, ignorance, disease as soon as possible. It is not the great ones who demean man, but those who enrich his spiritual heritage, thereby helping his happiness." The third quote: "The struggle of women for equality will end in a new order than the sex in which women will be superior. A modern woman who is already in purely superficial phenomena represents the progress of her sex is only an external sign of something deeper and more powerful that matures in the negligent species." Fourth quote: "Energy is a key problem for the future, a matter of life or death. Current energy sources are unreliable and poisoning our planet. We may survive that poisoning, but the day will come when your energy sources will dry." And the last quote: "We're all one, people are connected to each other by invisible forces." All these quotes I've read clearly show what kind of man Nikola Tesla was. Nikola Tesla was a brilliant inventor and scientist, and by this humanity remembers him because he owes us, so today we enjoy many technological benefits, devices without which we can no longer imagine our life. But Nikola Tesla was not just a great scientist and inventor, he was a visionary and philanthropist, an extremely great man. During his 87 years of long life, Tesla was misunderstood, ridiculed and ridiculed by many of his contemporaries, especially those who challenged him, Tesla loved humanity and always had a public interest in mind, and that is what we who sit in the Parliament and all of us who do politics must strive because our actions must have only one purpose: to act in the public interest and to do good to society. In that sense, Nikola Tesla can be a truly great teacher to all of us. Croatia has the honour of having this cosmopolitan and philanthropist in all of the world, born in the small town of Smiljan near Gospić on 10 July 1856. Thanks to this happy fact by my colleagues Bernardić, Cain and I, on the initiative of the Association "Nikola Tesla"-gene for the future and their president, Dragica Mihajlović, who has been struggling for years to promote Nikola Tesla and his magnificent work in the Croatian and world public, suggested that this date be declared on 10 July by the National Day of Nikola Tesla and thus in a symbolic way give recognition to this great man. This is an opportunity to recall a few biographical facts from Tesla's life. Nikola Tesla was born into a priestly family who recognized the genius of the young Tesla and had trained him despite schooling in Karlovac, Graz and Prague. Tesla started elementary school in Smiljan, and ended up in Gospić. After that, he enrolled in a lower real high school in Rakovec near Karlovac. After finishing high school, he paused for two years. The ambition of parents was for young Tesla to become a priest, but he opposed it and enrolled in a Technical Sciences Study in Graz. He studied technique in Prague, but he didn't finish his studies for financial reasons. He first hired in Budapest in a telephone company, and then worked at Edison's company in Paris. In 1883, the first induction engine was constructed outside of working hours in Strasbourg. Before he was 30 years old, he went to America and got a job at Edison's company, but between two inventors there was little understanding of what led to known conflicts. The development of industry went hand in hand to Tesla's genius because industry needed engines, and Tesla discovered an electric motor. The trend of opening America to other overseas states has also coincided with Tesla's discoveries, its ambition to connect the world and provide energy to it, and to achieve this goal has successfully drawn closer to the discovery of electricity and telecommunications transmissions. After he left Edison's company, Tesla founded his own company. George Westinghouse head man Westinghouse electric company from Pittsburgh in 1888 bought the rights to Tesla's patent of a multi-phase system shifted by dunes, transformers and motors leading to a conflict between Edison's direct system and Tesla-Westinghouse's alternating approach. Tesla's invention took away victory. In his laboratory in New York, Tesla worked until his death in 1943, and during that period he invented an electromagnetic motor that became the basis of all the machines that are powered by alternating current. He also devoted himself to many other inventions such as high-frequency electricity, induction charge used in radio technology, wireless transmission of electricity and radio control of radar streams, exploitation of solar energy, turbines, stationary waves by which he proved that the country could serve as a guide and react as a musical fork to electrical vibrations on a given frequency. In 1896 he was entrusted with the construction of the hydrothermic plant on Niagara Falls. The lack of money left his ideas in the notebooks that are still being studied. It was decorated in 1917 by Edison's medal, the greatest medal of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. In honor of him in 1956, the magnetic field unit was named Tesla. The Encyclopaedia of Britannica Tesla lists ten of the most important people in world history. In addition, Tesla spoke six languages and had a photographic memory. Tesla's discoveries are underexperienced today. The visionary are his research into energy transmissions, electromagnetic radiation and electro-conductors from which modern radio communications, television, robotics and remote control systems have emerged today. For this reason, we can reasonably expect that many future inventions will be the outcome of Tesla’s discoveries. About 100,000 pages of Tesla's documents were stored at his museum in Belgrade, Morgan's bank in New York, and in the centre of the FBI. Many of these documents are not available to scientists. There are speculations that Tesla's legacy hides a solution to the problem of wireless energy transmission. We hope that the announcement of the National Day of Nikola Tesla is just the beginning of public valorisation of the works of this genius scientist and inventor in Croatia, and we hope in the world. We are pleased to learn that the Ministry of Science and Education and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs launched an initiative to declare Tesla's Day, Science Day, Technology and Innovation at international level through the UN organisation. We hope that Croatia will not only stand on this symbolic gesture but that a scholarship will be launched for young scientists innovators who will bear Tesla's name. We are convinced that on July 10th, the National Day of Nikola Tesla will play a positive role in promoting the ideas of Nikola Tesla and motivateing our talented innovators to persist in their work, which is particularly important for each economy because innovation today is the cornerstone of economic development. In this sense, it is extremely important for Croatia to become a country of knowledge and innovation in the right sense. The basic prerequisite for this is greater segregation for these purposes. In fact, as long as we stand out 0.75% of GDP for science and technology, we will find it difficult to reach the economies of other developed countries. The European objective is to set out for science and technology about 3% of GDP. Perhaps in this disproportionate, or percentages of the separation for science and technology, we can look for the fact that we have 20 times less registered patents than the EU average and 15 times less than the neighbouring Slovenia. Among the top 10 globally competitive are countries that invest most in science and education, some even 5% of GDP. We thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for its positive opinion and support, and we are pleased to accept the proposed addition of the name on the National Day of Nikola Tesla – the days of science, technology and innovation. We are also using this opportunity to apologize on behalf of the promoter here is a colleague of Zdravko Ronko we forgot to include him in this initiative which he absolutely deserves. Namely, as mayor and representative, Ronko worked actively and earnestly to promote the character and work of Nikola Tesla. Among other things, Tesla's monument was erected in Požega. Finally, we hope that all MPs and MPs will support this decision because the announcement of this day can help to represent Croatia as a country of knowledge and innovation and as countries of world-renowned genius Nikola Tesla in the EU and in the world, and this could have a positive impact not only on Croatian science but also on Croatian tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76387	And he'll continue his colleague Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76388	Dear Vice Presidents, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Association Nikola Tesla good day and thank you for everything you do to promote this Croatian brand everywhere in the world. Tesla is not only human, he is primarily a genius but he is also a path that has inspired many generations, and he inspired me at the beginning of physics. His genius, inventions, patents, his modesty and his struggle for man and humanity are something that should be implanted in every young man at the moment of formation. Of all the forces of friction, one that slows down human progress is ignorance. What would be called the greatest evil in the world. It's a quote that Nikola Tesla has spoken as well as many generations will pass until our technology is driven by energy that will be available in every point of the universe because the entire universe is full of energy. What you don't know and what might be less under the public eye is that Nikola Tesla is now an increasingly quoted scientist. The scientific works of Nikola Tesla only today get a full swing in the full scientific sense of the word and what was its beginning in the fight for the welfare of humanity, best said that it was persecuted by large industrial giants and giants of the industrial age such as Thomas Edison and Jp Morgan. Many Tesla patents that the public doesn't know or is less familiar with are hidden but still not yet fully figured out and revealed at the time. Since the great surprise with the alternating current at the world expo in Chicago where he shocked with his idea of alternating current and entered into work with Edison while creating assumptions for neon lighting, the way in which the lighting will be distributed more easily and faster and as 40 years before the first patent, Tesla allied its gas tubes by offering the world neon lighting. The radiation of Killian's photographs used today in medical diagnostics are only one of the many inventions that has made Tesla a better life for man and humanity. Radio devices and wireless transmissions of energy that initial discovery attributed to Marconi Tesla just said that I don't regret that others stole my ideas, I regret they don't have their own. Perhaps one of the most significant inventions for the history of human civilization that has greatly changed the course of human civilization is the remote control that Tesla demonstrated for the first time in 1898 on the remote control of the ship. Later, remote management unfortunately worked for military purposes and conducted without a pilot German tank. What is extremely important is that it is precisely in mind and because it was aware of how much its products can affect humanity in war but also in peace of mind took many of its inventions with it to the grave. Not to mention the electric motor, robotics or discovery of lasers that is Tesla's discovery as well as attempt at wireless communication and wireless energy. Otherwise well-known Croatian scientist Marin Soljačić is working on the transmission of power without wires, so wireless energy transmission through which to power machines, means electronic equipment and even cars. I know a little bit about it because I'm on a similar topic of quantum interaction between half-conductors and I've graduated myself, but Tesla imagined that idea a hundred years ago and built a tower on the Island Road that was supposed to broadcast the first wireless signals or be a wireless transmitter of free and free energy. It was his dream, free and free energy for everyone. There Tesla was a visionary, he was a humanist, he was primarily a man who gave every free moment of his knowledge to mankind. I'm staying in hotels, having my own apartment would mean bonding with emotions to a certain space, and that's distracting the attention and personality of science. It was Nikola Tesla, born in a small place, studying in Graz and Prague, finishing schooling means high school in Karlovac and giving the world her knowledge and her mind. He formed the first project in 1892 before the representatives of the Zagreb City Assembly. Other hydropower plants on the Sava that were to be built but at that time there was not too much hearing for these visionary ventures and somehow it directed Tesla to leave his homeland and offer his knowledge to all mankind. Who knows that Zagreb then had 1892 that there was wisdom by the city authorities, the second best for those on Krka, the hydropower plant in the world. But shortly afterwards along with Westinghouse he built a big hydropower plant in Niagara where Westinghouse tied a dollar to the Wat and he said you made Mr. Tesla so much watt if if I sign this for you now, I'll go bankrupt, the company can be called the Teslas. He said it doesn't matter, you gave me a chance first. It's just to talk about what kind of man Nikola Tesla was because money meant absolutely nothing to him. Money doesn't represent the value a man puts towards him, all the money, I invested in inventions that enabled new inventions to make life easier for mankind. The individual is transient, the race and the nations will come and go but the man remains. In this lies the deep difference between the individual and the whole. And he was aware of Tesla, the world as a whole, and therefore I am extremely proud that thanks to Mirela Holly, Damira Caina, the Nikola Tesla Association, Zdravko Ronka as one of the first to engage in this initiative on July 10th this year will mark the National Day of Nikola Tesla. And what we cannot stand on because Tesla is a Croatian brand, Tesla is a Croatian product, Tesla is not just a thing of the past, he is more and more a thing of the future because Tesla is today much more relevant than it was 70 years ago, Croatia is, the historic task of the Croatian Government, the Croatian Parliament, Croatian society to live not only on the memory of Nikola Tesla, but on a constant reminder of his work and work and therefore I think that it is time for the Croatian government to propose to the UN to his birthday and, as well as an initiative that will be signed by many, declare the World Day of Science. I also think that it is time for the International Institute for Social Development Nikola Tesla to be established in Croatia, which will transfer the whole idea around the world and enable those most expected of whom are young gifted students to receive not only information, but all the necessary resources to continue their smooth work. The annual data that is defeated and catastrophic because 12 thousand people leave our country, by opening Croatia in the EU, that number is somewhat and larger. For years, Croatia has invested great money in projects that have not produced results, in projects where it has lost money, sacrificed the future, perspective and hope for a large number of our citizens, especially children, especially young people who are now looking for the future and bread out there. I will not return to only 100 billion kunas that Croatia has invested over the past 20 and a few years, i.e. invested in shipbuilding without the creation of a new job and the recovery of the banking sector that has weighed several dozen billion kunas. These are two state budgets that are invested in science and development, which are invested in youth, talent and perspective, which are invested in increasing research and development of the integration of universities and industry in Croatia, today Croatia would look quite different. The most competitive professions would stay here, not go out. My appeal to young people is to try to get the strength and optimism to stay in Croatia because this is what is extremely important for our future and to deal with science in Croatia because science is a rare discipline that has such a direct and then indirect effect on social development, on the GDP, but also on the state of consciousness. And that's why Nikola Tesla is this very thought of leadership and this light of guidance which encourages us to share in the days ahead, in the years ahead of us through the mention of his name from a small Croatia, Croatia has the power to create many more Nikola Tesla and provide itself with a better future and perspective and then share it with the whole world because Croatia is a country that is open to the EU, which has the opportunity to show its knowledge and ability to show the whole world, and that is our chance and we need to do it right on the Nikola Tesla project. It is less known that Nikola Tesla has also examined the frequency of the Earth’s crust, that it has established for him a bit of a shocking discovery that there are standing waves and a certain frequency that can be sent messages even through the Earth’s crust, so that for him pure energy was everything that surrounds it, everything that inspires it, he even said that we must rid ourselves of thoughts that imposes space and time and preserve the main features. A man who was a visionary, but who studied Indian philosophy, who knew... mathematics, who had not only in mind the Cartesian system of thinking, the man who inspired daily and who today is more and more than before inspiration to many others because Tesla today is much more quoted than it was 70 years ago. Tesla is now much more current than it was 70 years ago, Croatia today has a chance through Tesla to be much more current than never before. So let us take advantage of what we have, put our trust in the best things that we have produced together with our greatest sons, and we will do much. One of his quotes that I'm going to end up with sounds like, "The day science begins to study nonphysical phenomena, in 10 years it will advance more than in the earlier centuries of its history. And if you don't know how, observe nature, it will give you clear answers and inspiration." The only thing we can say is, thank you, Nikola Tesla.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76389	Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76390	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, I am pleased that this topic has come... members of this High House and I am pleased to hear two exhibitions with which I fully agree, but I would, on something else, draw attention that it is not enough just to establish the day of Nikola Tesla or the day of Technology and Science, and it will be called Nikola Tesla, but it is more important that we act and direct young generations through which Nikola Tesla went. When I say that, I mean two paradigms, it's a paradigm of truth of authority and a paradigm of the authority of truth. Tesla is the promoter of the paradigm of the authority of truth. He lived for that truth, he fought for that truth in his own way, he pawned it, he's about that truth we can tell and die for. Contemporary civilization I'm convinced is going slow, but it goes that way and with a certain, certain authority of truth. The second paradigm in which we were all raised or raised is the truth of authority. I had a chance to talk, meet the person who wrote the book "Four Last Days of Nicola Tesla." I called that lady who wrote it, so I said, "Well, ma'am, you're so young, you don't know Nikola Tesla, how could you write what Nikola Tesla thought and thought about the last four days of her life in a hotel in America?" She said I didn't know Nikola Tesla personally, but I wrote a book in English "The Last Four Days of Nicola Tesla". I read his papers that were available to me, and I thought about them and wrote this book that had been published in England, which has not yet been translated into Croatian. I didn't read it, but in a conversation with this person who wrote the book "The 8th Sin of Obedience", she said that in the name of truth or the paradigm of certain authorities, the most evil was done in human history. People simply listened to older ones whose authority was imposed and did not follow the voice of conscience or what science says. So this high house is in front of a dilemma whether to stop only on the one day of the year which will be dedicated to Nikola Tesla, which I support, but rather whether we are directing society as responsible representatives of society in the right way and in the right sense for the future. Namely, it is my opinion that we are in one split between these two paradigms of truth authority and the authority of truth. The future and science show us the way to follow the authority of truth, not the truth of certain authorities, whether they are the authority of ideological, political, secular, religious, political. No one should listen blindly to any authority, but be guided by his own conscience and responsibility and always have kind of open ears to what science says. When I say this, I think we have a situation in our society that concerns me personally, and that's a question of what will happen to our young people who are getting schooled, which is perfectly legal and open, worldly freedom is one of the essential freedoms of man, but we can't take the Bible anymore, quote and say that it was. "I have created the world of God in six days, and the seventh rest." And so to our children on Veronauk, the world was given up in six days, and then they told us even while I was educated that it was six periods. And then in the end, it was discovered six days ago, it was the seventh day of the Sabbath, it was to be rested, and to justify that truth on the seventh day of rest, then the story of the creation of the world was told where God created the six days of the world and the seventh came to an end, and then you must work six days, and the seventh day rested. It can be said to children and it sounds like a beautiful story, but when children come and get acquainted with physics, chemistry, biology, then they realize that there is a huge gap between what they learned as the truth of a particular authority and what they accepted and what they learn later in school, they think for themselves and see that it is a great debauchery between the two paradigms. So the question is what should be done in this great high home to direct youth education not to include the possibility of freedom of the worldview of any, but always given that science and school are, to give us the results of the authority of truth. What science says, what art says, what philosophy says, what anthropology says, and not just what it says in the only book for which everything is inspired, everything from God and everything is accepted as absolute truth. We'll pay dearly for the mistakes that we make on this plan because when children start thinking with their heads, then they leave this paradigm of truth to authority, they seek their truth but they mostly wander. That is why schooling is a very important thing in conjecturing our entire society policy and we are responsible for this policy. So much as some principle on the occasion of this debate about Nikola Tesla. Clearly, as independent representatives, we will support this with the warning that I have said, that we should appreciate not only the truth of the authority that is deserved, but even more in the spirit and Nikola Tesla and modern sciences promote the authority of truth, knowledge, science, art, philosophy etc. Thank you very much. Damir Cain will continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76391	Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76392	Honorable Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yeah, speaking of Nikola Tesla, I guess we all think the same thing. It's about a man in these places who has owed all of humanity. The same way Tesla knew who he was from. He respected his origins, his homeland, but what is unrepeated, which is probably unique, Tesla owed humanity. And as everyone said before me without Nikola Tesla, the world would have been different, the world would have been poorer or had it not been for Nicola Tesla today would have been civilised probably in the 20th century. I recently watched on MAX-TV, I think it was History or Geographic one series of people who started America, who created me to express myself like that in America. And there was a normal place for both Rockefeller and Morgen and before Westinghouse I don't know which not all industrialists, thinkers, but one or two shows were dedicated to both Edison and Nikola Tesla. When someone means after 70 years of his death in America honors someone with these spaces, then that someone must have been something special, and then that someone must have really been in charge of America and America and all of humanity, and Tesla really was. He was unique, he was celebrated for life, but still today 70 years since his death. The elements, the cars bear his name, by some likely exception, may have been hundreds of years ahead of his time. Now that I mention it to Max-TV, History or Geographic has that alien show, that's where they mention it along with Leonard, etc. as humans of extraterrestrial intelligence. Clearly it has nothing to do with intelligence or reality, but I want to say about Tesla being spoken of today more than yesterday, Tesla people admire, Tesla is more likely today than ever, Tesla is what Croatia dares to say she had. Tesla also did not compromise during World War II, he recognized even though living across the pond is the right side of the conflict in these areas. Many in Croatia still talk about the time of two but Tesla made it clear back in '41 who was on the right side or who was on the other side. And yes, it is certain that he needs to be respected, that he should be given a confession. I don't think it can be disputed, it was big and he's probably the best thing Croatia can call on with normal I don't want any replicas now, this Partizan movement that also owed these spaces. There's nothing disputed about Tesla. He owed humanity nothing from Croatia, he's ours as much as he's a Serb, he's proud of Croatia as he is of Serbia, and at a time when a ban on Cyrillic or a referendum on Cyrillic Tesla is an example of co-existence, convention and time without hatred. I don't know about his inventions about his work. I don't know about the alternating current that the world today runs as much as 100 and so many years ago, let others say, but without Tesla, the world would be very different, and that's why it's no wonder that one Britannica placed it among the top 10 people in mankind's history. Croatia has given more Nobel laureates but no one but Tito and Cira Blažević, to make a joke, has remained remembered as Tesla. For the end, although this proposal doesn't tang anyone, it's nice for everyone to think of it the same way. And so much Nikola Tesla's day is the least we can do to make up for this Tesla genius. Tesla also said he was proud of his Serbian background and Croatian homeland. In '91, '92, when he's already throwing me this in Gospić, his monument is collapsing. I don't know if anyone was responsible for that barbarism? Maybe it is, I don't know. Why was it taken down by our barbarians who can't imagine life without Tesla's inventions? Because I guess in their opinion that monument wasn't "enough Croatian". So those three thousand Partisan monuments collapsed, and it is no wonder to the HDZ gentlemen that the monument of Nikola Tesla, the man who in charge of both Croatia and humanity, was destroyed. This country has repeatedly tried to repay its genius and this is also an attempt to remember how to say passableness, as Mr Bernardic said this world. Yes, one day Croatia will certainly get its national institute Nikola Tesla and until then let's try to keep what is best, most creatively here and not send them to America. Exactly if Tesla had stayed at that time in Austria-Hungarian Croatia, perhaps his mind would not have been recognized. So let's try, at least on the day of Nikola Tesla, to repay the new Teslas, first of all, in a way that we can try to keep them here like, I don't know, one Canada, America, etc., repay when they come to their premises. Once again, Tesla is certainly the best that Croatia has given and so let's try to identify the new Tesla. [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]] And here they are, I hope they're similar to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76393	Jasen Mesic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76394	I have the first breach of the Rules of Procedure, Madam Vice President, Article 238. So we managed to reach Ustasha and Partizan from Nikola Tesla. And it must have been broken to talk about a subject that was not the subject of the debate, Madam Vice President. If we manage to politicise this topic and this topic in the Croatian Parliament, then this initiative will not have a nearer purpose than it should have. More than that, if I understand correctly, is one of the legislators of the initiative. Do the other colleagues and colleagues who suggest this in the same way think this should be discussed? And Madam Vice President, I think you had to react in that sense to take this debate on the right track. And after that, I have a replica for my colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76395	Thank you very much. No injured Rules of Procedure. A colleague spoke on behalf of the club about the topic under discussion. There is often something broader than the very proposal that we are discussing. He presented the fact, he presented the fact that the monument of Nikola Tesla in Gospić was torn down. A clear Mesic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76396	If the facts are already presented, the Honorable Madam Vice President and Honorary colleague Cain, then it is necessary to present them correctly. So it's also the fact that it's made a drain of that monument. It is also a fact that over 1700 monuments died during the Homeland War. The fact is, it would have been so much better if it hadn't happened. The fact is that we have over 300m euros of direct damage to cultural goods in the Republic of Croatia. The fact is, we've had the entire complexes destroyed. And the fact is that in 2005, it was tied to a monument that was mentioned as a drain and it was prepared for restoration. You should ask the Ministry of Culture what to do with it. That's certainly what Mr. Cain will do when he's already so adequately defended. Or, speaking of facts, he could say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia invested in a completely new museum centre in Smiljan in 2005. That there's a house arranged in Smilyan. Or he should not have voted blindly in favour of the Republic of Croatia's budget that reduces the resources for science that all the proposings suggest should pursue some European standards. And an esteemed colleague if you really have nothing but to go politicizing and talk about things that you may not be well aware of, then do it either in an appropriate way or don't do it. Because we also really thought of the HDZ club when we supported the committees that it was something that we could purposely and constructively discuss and in some way fix what we could from the initiative. And, in some ways, to extract positive effects for society as a whole. If we are now politicizing again, then obviously we are not mature for this initiative either.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76397	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76398	If I hadn't had time to mention your initiative to rebuild Tesla's house in Smilyan, I think you mentioned 2005. But I probably voted for the budget back then, just like I voted for this one. And praise was a valuable initiative, but know here in my act there was no word of politicization, at least I'm just experiencing it so easily. However, I want one more time, and thank you for giving me the opportunity to ask, I don't know, first of all the institutions of this country who knocked down Tesla's monument and whether or not someone answered. Is that why anyone answered? I don't know, I wish it was because it's him, because those barbarians who did it without Tesla's inventions just couldn't imagine the day of their lives. You've been Mr. Representative for the time being Minister of Culture, therefore, perhaps another colleague of yours could answer the question of which you yourself have spoken about who means destroyed not only Tesla's monument but also those you say 1700 other monuments, I say 3000 monuments from the period or dedicated periods of the People's Liberation Battle. Barbarism is one thing, barbarism is another, it just doesn't look like anyone. And the one who dared to threaten something not with his finger, but with dynamite, I guess he should answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76399	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76400	Dear colleague Cain, when you spoke of the destruction of the monument, you certainly spoke about the fact that the rule of law is not working. To put Nikola Tesla in the context of Partisan is to banalise both his character and his work. And you did politicize this subject and draw public attention to the irrelevant. And I agree with the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, no injured Rules of Procedure, but it tastes good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76401	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76402	Looks like you, Mr. Representative, have no taste at all. I repeat once again It wasn't my intention, nor did I politicize anything. [[I'm a friend of mine.]] But Tesla, among other things, wanted to hear it or not, made it very clear that he was still in '41. I don't know why. What we want to send with this and what kind of messages we want to send, but speaking of Tesla, we can't just ignore it, and I'm not going to say it politically but worldly civilization's commitment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76403	On behalf of Proposer Davor Bernardić. ... Was he a proprietor or a replicator? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76404	Well, the replica's better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76405	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76406	Well, first of all, I believe that you based your speech on certain facts, what we have to warn you is that it is actually a unique moment, one of the few moments in the Parliament when there is a great agreement and unity around this Croatian giant Nikola Tesla. And I'd like to appeal to everyone that in this very spirit we're promoting the idea of Nikola Tesla, the day of Nikola Tesla as something that we're going to leave for the future, young generations, and that even through our today's debate, the tone is going to be that way because Tesla today is much more relevant than he was 70 years ago. Tesla is a thing today, a person, a phenomenon with which Croatia can be very proud and can be promoted in the world and Tesla is today that community that is about science, fighting for people, for children, for talented students, for science, for something that we so strongly miss in our society, Tesla is today the thought of leadership. And so I really appeal that this debate is going in that direction, that it is not going in the direction of any historical relationship and division. We leave history to historians, but Tesla is much more, part of the future, every day it becomes more than it is part of history and history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76407	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76408	So I can't understand, isn't there an agreement on character if we're already talking about it, between the Second World War and the Second World War? So what kind of people are we, and why do we do it all the time and why do we share ourselves through these simple debates and polemics? Well, he wasn't just a scientist, he was a man of flesh and blood, and he was a great patriot who properly assessed the opportunities in these areas in '41. That's what I was gonna say. And today what we have in this country, we have an attempt at a referendum on Cyrillic and another attempt to simply share as it has been so many times in the Croatian public and done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76409	My colleague Cain, it wasn't in the replica. Thank you very much. Please. What does Cyrillic have to do with the subject we're discussing now? On behalf of the Proposer...... Please calm down. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's my colleague Holly for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76410	As a proposer, I suppose I also speak on behalf of my colleague Bernardic, I would really appeal that we are not dragging World War II into this topic because what Nikola Tesla's legacy is really too important to involve any ideological conflicts in this conflict, and it really is not necessary and I am warning a fellow Caine who is also a proponent to refrain from such interventions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76411	But what's the fence, what's the fence? Well, Tesla spoke proudly of my Croatian homeland and Serbian origin, and that is so many times in our new history quoted sentences that I don't know who on the other hand should mind. I don't know... So I'm replicating you first of all because you've finally got all this controversy and started. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76412	He's a colleague of the Mlakars, and he's replicated his colleague Holly. ... So, according to our Rules of Procedure, it can be replicated both by the promoter and the club and by the representative. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the SDSS club colleague Milorad Pupovac and please calm down in the benches. Here you go, buddy Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76413	Not only can't I not hear it, but I'm not sure I have what to hear. Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS representative club is following this initiative with interest, although it has learned about it from parliamentary materials, which is, of course, the usual procedure when it comes to the issue of Serbs in the Republic of Croatia, and the issue of Nikola Tesla is certainly a question concerning Serbs in the Republic of Croatia. Nikola Tesla isn't just a switch to get into a room and a light bulb that's going to turn on afterwards. It's a technique. A great, significant, historical, testimony to the ingenuity of the human mind that has been accomplished in the head of one named Nikola Tesla. However, Nikola Tesla is much more than that in our circumstances, Croatian-Serbian, south-Slovenian. For decades, it has been a symbol of brotherhood, a word that has been forbidden here today, and is reluctant to speak of it even though it is as old as the French Revolution, and he was one of those who believed in this ideal of the French Revolution as I believe in human equality, equality among societies. And he's not a monument in '92. brought down in Gospić because he invented electricity, discovered how we would use electricity, rather than because he was a Serb, and that should be said today and here. It should be said that his monument, although we managed to restore him thanks to the brave policy of a government that cared about working out interethnic relations. In 2006, on the anniversary of Tesla's birth, but the monument collects dust in the Croatian Fine Arts Academy until today. Why? Because he was not worthy of the city in which his parents were born and who proudly stood out as his place of origin. And when you ask for an answer, you have no answer. Why? Because besides Father Homeland, there's no room for a giant of Nicola Tesla's format. And we know and we have to say it here, not asking who knocked down or asking who's responsible, but we know who's bothering you. We know that there are those who call for faith in God, but believe in idols, not enlightenment, not redemption. If it were different, that monument wouldn't have been touched. You'd know who the Gospićs are suffering from in this war. If it were different, there wouldn't have been a monument in Jadovna the same year. So we can't talk about Nikola Tesla's national day unless we talk about the fact behind it. And for that reason, colleagues and colleagues, Nikola Tesla is a significant name of human history. It is not a significant name of Croatian, nor of Serbian national history, but of human history. He owed not only the Serbs, nor only the Croats, but he owed the human race. And that for him in his hometown, his home country has no place for his monument that I once again from this pay phone as I asked the prime minister of this current government when the monument of Nikola Tesla will be returned to Gospić. It was renovated in 2006. And I wonder what it makes sense to propose the national day of Nikola Tesla in Croatia, not to wonder where Tesla's monument is. Are we gonna declare that day, and Tesla's gonna have a place to go? To collect dust at the Academy of Arts. Are we going to have a great man who had very humanistic views, who was to be put in places for tolerance and pretend that we do not live in a society of maximum intolerance, that those who are his fans, who still live in the Republic of Croatia, are called Chetniks and insults on the street and are told that they are going to Serbia as is happening to me. I'm alive these days, and we're gonna pretend like everything's normal, and we're gonna pretend like we're a polite society, and there's Tesla who admits what he needs to admit. It's not the right way. We have to ask ourselves what's behind it. Tesla was not a partisan, nor was that ideology close to him. But when we talk about monuments, then we have to wonder what about big monuments like Vojina Bakic. Who was disturbed by such a monument as the stone, who was disturbed by the monument in Obuzen. We're talking about the greatest achievements human mind, human creation can have. And until we find that answer, the answer to those questions, or at least until we start asking ourselves that kind of question here in this House, and in this society, we're not going to properly raise children, or text them. Tesla shouldn't have been distinguished by his background, but it was '91. and '92. In this country, this origin was highlighted and to a significant extent. But it did not prevent those from blowing up the monument, nor did it prevent those who today think it is not his place in Gospić because it is the place of the father of the homeland. Which the same father of the country, without difficulty, is transformed and brought into contact with the chief of the NDH. And they don't have any difficulty with that. But they have difficulty in giving Tesla an adequate place in Croatian society, in Croatian history, in Croatian textbooks. In that sense Tesla is much more than just a matter of technique. The technique is extremely important, but Tesla, like he tried to tell his colleague Cain here, and then, with an incomprehension, you warn him it's not a topic. It is a subject, but obviously you have no awareness of what you've touched, which topic you've opened. What Tesla means in this society and what it can mean in this society and what it should mean in this society. And go back to what the HDZ colleagues pointed out. True, that is to say, from 2004 to 2007, the government made a huge step in creating, restoring the home and simultaneously raising and building a memorial centre that also had a new memorial mark for Nikola Tesla. And there was also a monument set up in the city by the mayor Bandic, along with the then government and the then minister, and these are significant contributions. But this is that by the day of today's 2006 and so far one of the three monuments that have been built to honor this giant, one on the waterfalls of Niagara, the other in front of the college in Belgrade, the third in his hometown Gospić made of the hands of the great Croatian sculptor Fran Kršinić stands in the warehouse of the Fine Academy and collects dust and we have no answer to where we will place him and why we will place him. And to discuss this issue without it, we from the SDSS Club can't understand it. And what we can't understand can't even accept. So we'll support this when we get a clear answer to the question of when the monument of Nikola Tesla is in '92. A year down in Gospić to return to where he was raised? If not there, return where no one will touch him, where he will be respected, and where he will be visible. That's his character and our character. Those who think differently, those who send me yesterday and tomorrow to Serbia to whom I first went as a young doctor should understand that they do not respect this country and that they know nothing about it and that they do not have as much love for it as black under their fingernails. And being black is just hate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76414	Now we're going to the replicas. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76415	Congratulations to Milorad Pupovac and I sign every spoken word. Yes, this initiative must result in the return of Tesla, it must result in the return of Tesla's monument to Gospić. Otherwise, everything that we're talking about today just doesn't make sense. We've restored the monument, and we're afraid to return that monument. That monument collects dust I don't know at the Academy of Arts. Is politicizing to return the monument? Why do I need a day if we can't repay Tesla with a monument that stood in that place I don't know for 20, 30 or more years? I personally advocate doing so as soon as possible until 10th of this year. This is a parliamentary initiative, but clearly, it also has political messages. Let the monument come back, let the bastards who did it condemn themselves. If it's out of date, let it be said we can't, but we know who they are and you'll find out their names. If the statue was made by Croatian artist Krsinić, if Tesla can stand in Canada or the United States in Niagara, if he can't stand in his hometown, then really this initiative won't make any sense and we can see for ourselves that we can't reach any consensus on this issue either. I just want to notice that this country cannot be loved by hate or destruction. And Tesla did not deserve the fate of his monument at the Academy of Fine Arts here in Zagreb today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76416	Next replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76417	Dear colleague Pupovac is absolutely certain that the destruction of monuments is no matter what barbarism. We've learned that through history. The barbarians always tear down the monument first. Tesla Memorial did not bring down Croatian patriots. Those who took down the monument never brought down Tesla disgraced the Republic of Croatia. In all of what you've been saying, the most concerns are the hypocrisy of all the governments so far, politics. It's politics that won't allow it, which is either afraid or worst that manipulates it and wants the status quo to be easier to rule. We just need to look into the truth and you've been involved in these policies and allowed your participation to happen. Everyone here, no innocents. You have warned of a problem that is a major problem, which chokes Croatian society. I agree with you so long as we don't open-mindedly discuss these things, so long as we push under the rug those things that can't be pushed, what question of civilization and the question of democracy, this will be just one opportunity initiative with the fact that I don't think that the promoters meant it, that the promoters had an honorable intention and that what you were talking about the Krsinic monument, a monument that should be returned to the place where it belongs, should certainly be entered into that initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76418	Milorad Pupovac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76419	Dear colleague, I can't wait for the day for you to be part of some ruling majority and wait for you to maybe be a minister in the government and hear what your colleagues from the bench will tell you about your policy and your government or your coalition, I can't wait. The point of political action is only when you pass that experience. As for what was done, yes, from 2004 to 2007 it was very much done. You should have done it. If you'd gone through those ends and passed that experience, you'd have seen what people who went through and advocated such a policy faced. What messages were welcomed both in Zadar and Gospić for such policies. The fact that it is not realised, it should ask people in Gospić, in Gospićko County and should ask people of the central government today, should ask them, but some of the authorities also have this Assembly, I guess. There are some possibilities in this regard for this Parliament and for you and I, not only to discuss but to force the authorities to realize something, and this is a valuable initiative launched by colleague Holly along with all of mine, not criticism, but my efforts to draw attention to something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76420	Thank you very much. Dujomir Marosovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76421	Dear Madam Vice President, I am ashamed of this day being present in this assembly, all these discussions are a handful of misery. All this is a handful of misery, zero kuna and Caine and Pupovac are ordinary haters in Croatia, nothing more, Caine from one position and Pup from other positions, why, what should I do, who brought down the monument of Ban Jelačić? Tito, is he a barbarian now, who's Caine, is he answering, Mr. Pupovac, because of you, I've risen this replica to you. It's a shame that we're discussing Tesla this way, Tesla's not property, the grace of humanity, and this is what he would be ashamed of, turning in his grave when he hears these discussions and what you're talking about him, no matter what you're talking about, he's not owned by the SDSS. Well, we cannot clear Croatian Serb relations in Croatia through Tesla. What are you talking about, so it's normal that he was the stone that he said was a Serb, and if he had Meštrovic, they broke his grave, so they didn't break his grave because he was an artist and because he built a monument on Calemegdan but because there was no war, and you're manipulating our brains because thousands of grenades on Gospić fell, thousands of grenades killed children, and you're surprised that someone crashed a monument without being, what are you talking about? You're arguing hatred between the Croatian and Serbian people again, and I strongly protest it because Croatian Serb relations need to be built day to day for the better, based on those. If we need to clear up Tesla, what he invented, what frequency, whether he was a Croat, whether his grandfathers were like the newspaper and the great-grandfathers were Catholics, so he moved on to Orthodoxism, he should be seen whether he was a Croat or not. It's some historical dubious, please nice Pupovec or Stazic or someone to explain it to me, if he knows, if he doesn't know anything, so we can find out once. And he deserves in Croatia and everything there is, and not that in these stupid discussions in these rooms.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76422	My colleague, thank you very much. Comrade Marasovic, you are actually turning the debate in a direction that should not go. Oh, please, Milorad Pupovac, answer the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76423	I'm close to not answering my colleague Marasovic because he's not close but recently crossed the line between what's the debate and what's rediculous and what's not to be discussed. What might be convenient for the market to see and what belongs to the originals but does not belong to a serious debate. This is a serious topic, Mr. Marasovic, if you want to deal with it, please deal with it, if you won't. If you don't know, don't. If you don't have a good faith, too, don't let me explain to you what I do for Croatian Serb relations here and wherever it goes. After what you say and what you used to say in the Croatian Parliament, this is simply beneath me, beneath honor. About what Tesla means, which means the destruction of that monument, which means the destruction of monuments to the victims of Jadrograd and the relationship to it, I of course.../Invader Zgrebec: Turn on the microphone. I don't want to explain, but don't contribute when you talk about hate, don't feed those who meet us on the streets and who send us to Serbia today, so many years after the war. And when we talk about partisans, I wasn't a Chetnik and I'll never be, I'm an anti-fascist, Croatian and world. I talked not because I'm Serbian, but because I'm human. Tesla did what he did not because he was a Serb, but because he had an ingenious mind. But his monument was destroyed despite it only because he was a Serb. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76424	Thank you. We have a nice initiative here in the debate, so please don't go into some water that leads us here in a fight and conflict. Comrade Jasen Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76425	Dear fellow, Mr. Cain doesn't have to tell me what's good and what's supposed to be and what's anti-fascist values. There's no right to do that. But you know very well that the monument... was restored, at least most of it, you know that it was open in 2011, and you didn't mention it. A respected colleague of more than 40 monuments every year from 2004 to 2011 belonging to Croatia's cultural heritage, but Serbian... has been renewed. My dear colleague, I don't need to be interpreted by Cain, and I don't need anyone to tell me if I understood it or if I didn't get it right because I get it very well. As for the location in Gospić, according to the information we have, it is about whether the monument, which is renovated, which exists in the academy, will be placed, so it is about determining the exact location within the city, I say, according to the information I have is being discussed within the location within the town of Gospić. If that's the only problem, then that problem has to be solved. I don't allow anyone to take the right to interpret what's important to me in anti-fascism or to interpret whether or not I understand it well as a member of a party. After everything and all the work you're talking about, we've been working hard for the period we've been talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76426	Thank you. Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76427	Dear colleague Mesic, what you understand, what you don't understand, I don't know. ... I have communicated with you for the first time now on this subject, I spoke to my colleague Marasovic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But let's let it go. First, let us not spread too many fundamental issues of total monumental heritage, return only to the question of the monument of Nikola Tesla that burdens this commendable initiative and return to respect and recognition of this heritage and the components of Croatian history, Croatian culture and Croatian science. So if the monument of Nikola Tesla was removed so that another monument could be placed there then it could be done as in the case of Ban Jelačić and put him somewhere and wait, let him welcome a better time or a different time that will look at these things differently. But it didn't seem, those monuments turned into old iron, blew them up. Now that it's restored, there's no place to put it. Why? Because Tesla's place is taken. Well, if it's busy in Gospic, it's not busy on Plitvices, let's put it there. If someone doesn't want it, they shouldn't have it. If someone has greater sanctity than he is, okay, times change, but we put it where everyone can see it, and the water was what the good part of his life worked with.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76428	Thank you very much. Vice President Nenad Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76429	Comrade Pupovac, you are absolutely right when you decide that we should also discuss the return of Krsinić's monument to Gospić, but this question does not make sense to ask the prime minister because local self-government decides on it. If he asked the Prime Minister he certainly wouldn't mind returning that monument to the place he was before he... Local self-government should be asked, and these are two men, former mayor, and current mayor Milan Kolic and current mayor Petar Krmpotic, both belong to HDZ, HDZ foreigners. And I think that this topic should be discussed in good faith and addressed to our colleagues in Parliament, Shuker, colleagues Mesic, colleagues of Mlakar, above all Darka Milinović, who is very influential in Lika and Gospić. The issue should be asked to the president of the HDZ, Karamark,..., Brkic, the HDZ presidency, that they affect these members of the local self-government and that the monument return not from Plitvice, not to another place in Gospić, but to where it was before... because it alone means the undoing of that evil. Only that evil, only that can mean the undoing of that evil, as the former monument to Ban Jelačić, so he couldn't go back elsewhere, there di was, where he was removed because only this stupidity can be corrected. And this should be discussed in good faith, that HDZ colleagues will influence local self-government, that we remove this issue from the agenda, that we should not be ashamed, that we should not be ashamed of ourselves as citizens of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76430	The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76431	Dear fellow Stazić, of course, I know the responsibility of local authorities, including not only local authorities but local power centres that are sometimes more powerful than the authorities themselves or are at least so influential that the authorities listen to them. There is much to be said, but someone is right, there is a need to respect the promoters and there is no need to spread excessively and not to burden this initiative that should be valued as fair and praiseworthy. But I don't agree with you that the question shouldn't be a prime minister. The prime minister is the prime minister of Croatia and is responsible for the functioning of the government throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, responsible for constitutional values throughout the Republic of Croatia. And when I ask him to mention the board in Clay, I can't get an answer, it's a question of local authorities, because it's not, it's not. The question of debauchery of the memory of the victims of World War II as it would be a question of debauchery on the victims of this war is certainly not a question of local authorities but is also a question of central authorities, to which central government should send a clear message, both the authorities and those who are paralegal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76432	Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76433	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm looking for a five-minute break. I'll give you a reason. We cannot allow a subject that was supposed to be a consensus in this high house to be led by low political debates that went where they should not go and after the replica of my fellow Stazic I am looking for a break on behalf of the club for five minutes, because Mr. Pupovac couldn't dispute that at the time of HDZ's power was done a lot. After all, the area of Nikola Tesla was supposed to be where young people were supposed to learn about Nikola Tesla and so it was done. But I'm saying, obviously someone's not in the interest of discussing it that way, but of having the debate go somewhere else. Because if we're going to start discussing how many cultural monuments of the Croatian people have been torn down in one and another war...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76434	Thank you. You've explained why you're looking.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76435	...we're not going anywhere, and then basically we're all gonna throw mud at Nikola Tesla, and that's not in anybody's interest. And that's why frankly speaking, I'm disappointed with some debates here and that's why I'm asking for a break on behalf of the club so we can take a stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76436	We've got four more lines, so we'll finish it, then. Goran Maric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76437	Thank you very much. My colleague Pupovac says that hate is created that it is not innate. I'm lucky that category never became a component of my mental system, but you went out with one too simple thesis, which is that Nikola Tesla's monument was destroyed just because he's a Serb. The demolition is a vandal act, there is no doubt at all, but he was a nichola who was trying to comfort the Serb even before the monument was torn down, and the Serb is still today when we are discussing the national holiday. The Serb will stay and in the future, he was also a Serb when the park worked. The causes aren't that simple, the causes are a little more complex. Didn't it also contribute to the creation of the SAO landscape to such a situation, is it not possible that in the Serbian, Yugoslav attack on the Republic of Croatia, is it partly the cause of the release of tanks from the Marshal Tito barracks and the murder of that first young man, is it not the crimes in Škabrnja, Glina, Vukovar and all other places the same cause? It's not just because he's Serbian. Isn't it possible that the monument was destroyed by Martići, Zelenika, Tanga, Jovan Raskovic, and Mladic and others? I think their contribution is also great and that even with all that I think about such things about the destruction of monuments, one human life is worth more than a thousand monuments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76438	I ask you once again, let us not spread the subject of what is not the subject of the debate. Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76439	You, a respected colleague, have opened your eyes to a number of people who have never known it before, and this is about the role of Milan Martic, Milan Babic and Jovan Raskovic in the destruction of the monuments of Nikola Tesla, not to mention further. I don't just know if they were adding explosives, whether they were inserting the necessary, necessary fuses to do it, or if they set it on fire. In other words, if we spoke like that, we know what is the responsibility of this policy. I could tell you about it a little bit more credible than you told me because I was on one side against them and against them, and on the other hand I was between them and those who were nothing different than they were, and they beat the innocent and the innocent wherever they came from this town to the monument. But you don't want to hear it and you don't want to see it, you don't want to see it because if you wanted to, then you'd have those things that are generally known said we know it, the public knows it. But what the public doesn't know and what it's denied to know, what those kids who were just before here are denying to know why that monument was torn down. It was torn down because Tesla was a Serb and because he wanted someone to think he had a bigger name and more significant and responsible for Gospić than Tesla and that he should be placed there. And that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76440	Thank you. Mirela Holly, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76441	I want to say that I am very sad and disappointed in what direction today's debate has taken place, and I think the citizens who are following this transfer of Parliament are quite disappointed and are disgusted by the politics. Namely, this initiative is not driven by the fact that Tesla was a Serb or was a Croat, but by being a really great man and genius, a cosmopolitan whom Croatia and the world owe a great deal to. Tesla was in the first plan of philanthropy and cosmopolitan, and today's course of debate would probably make him extremely sad. People need to be valorized in my opinion based on what people are and what they are in charge of humanity, not on the basis of their sex, their nation, their faith, their class or their race. And as long as we don't realize it, we're not going to start valorizing individuals that way, we're going to create everything within the framework of a different feature. We're not going to advance as a society. It was, among other things, the message of the entire part of Nikola Tesla. Yes, of course it's very sad that Tesla's monument is torn down, but this really isn't the theme of today's initiative, and of course it should be returned to Gospić and I think there's actually a consensus in this House that no one would object to Tesla's monument coming back to Gospić. But I think that this initiative is much more than one monument or more monuments and that we should talk about this topic in a completely different way. I am sorry that this initiative, or this motion for a decision, did not go through the institution of the Parliament and that the Parliament is not really a proponent of this decision because I think there should have been a consensus between all the clubs, but I suppose the association has spoken to all the clubs, and here we have responded to individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76442	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76443	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Pupovac, so I answered today for the debate precisely for the fact that I am sorry that I am not personally listed in this initiative which I consider to be commendable, for several reasons, I will say so in the debate. A colleague Bernardić quoted Nikola Tesla as saying, in the light of this initiative, if I'm going to repeat this, one of the greatest friction forces that is holding back the development of human society is precisely ignorance. Ignorance often causes hatred, and I think it is on the trail of what you fellow Pupovac here said that the monument of Nikola Tesla was destroyed solely because he was a Serb, and I don't think that this fact stands, and such motives come from ignorance from hate and simply when we talk about them we have to consider all influences. I personally also hope that the monument will be returned to where it belongs. And as for the very work of Nicola Tesla, he has often tried to connect what is to say so divinely in us and beastly. On the cross there is what is human and often described quite well at the time of his mother’s death when he tried to explain the influence of material and immaterial. And in that sense, I've read it like that, and that's the essence of my line, and I don't think this initiative, so I dare say even those words you've said are hypocritical. This initiative makes sense. True, it does not belong to material possessions such as the monument, but it belongs to this immaterial legacy that future generations on that day will at least speak of the work of Nikola Tesla and all that Nikola Tesla left for mankind. He was a cosmopolitan, and here I agree with you and his ideas and his legacy is great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76444	Now I'm setting a break to 11.17 minutes. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:15 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76446	Dear Vice-President, we in the Croatian Democratic Community are extremely dissatisfied with the direction around this item of the agenda, so on the national day of Nikola Tesla. We heard here and a series of political forgeries and immediately to answer so we in Gospić are not interested in raising monuments or returning the monuments of Nikola Tesla as a Serb... as a Croatian scientist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let me say a few words here, as much as we do today, and today someone wants to re-politicalize the name Nikola Tesla and initiate the lowest passions in Gospić and Croatia. The truth is this, and fellow Pupovac took part in these talks, at the head of that commission was the Vice-President of the Government of the Taker where we gave, watch the truth now, three locations in the narrow seat of the city where we will return the monument to Nikola Tesla. With disgust, I refuse to insinuate that the Libyans or the Gospićs will not monument Nikola Tesla back. They will, and not only that, but they are proud of Croatian scientists, genius Nikola Tesla. Well, that's the case, it's a little known that Lika University, where it is now studied by thousands of young people, is called the Nikola Tesla Lika College. Why today, after a few years or many years, he again wants to politicize the name Nikola Tesla. Who needs it today? And who needs once again to encourage the lowest passions both in Gospić and Croatia. A fellow Pupovac, it would be good, I'm sorry he's not here, if you'd said that when we opened the Nikola Tesla Memorial Centre, and that's what the former government did to show its pitet to the great Croatian scientist once again. She opened and built a large Nikola Tesla memorial centre that visits 40 to 50 thousand young people annually. At the opening of the centre, I was asked as Minister of the Croatian Government by the associations of the ancients of the Homeland War to condemn publicly and now from this booth I condemn the vandal act of mineing and destroying the monuments of Nikola Tesla. But already if we want to politicise then, or tell the truth, then it would be good to remember one small personal place, Lički Osik, and already if we condemn the mining and destruction of the monument of Nikola Tesla which I condemn from this pay phone on behalf of all Lichans, not in the name of the Serbs, but in the name of the Croats, people who know who is and what Nikola Tesla is. Let us remember the small town of Lički Osik, which when the Chetniks took, were renamed to Tesla City, misusing the name of the great Croatian scientist Nikola Tesla and then under the name of Tesla City because they made a local committee, or a settlement in Ličko Osik, Široko Kula killed 40 people, Croatian civilians, the youngest... Niksic 13 years whose body is still wanted today and the oldest Ivan Oreskovic 95 years old. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I call on my colleague Pupovec why both now or the Serb community in Croatia and then did not condemn the abuse of the name of the great Croatian scientist Nikola Tesla. So to conclude, I agree with Honorable Parliamentary representative Mirel Holly and all those who want to talk about Nikola Tesla as a Croatian scientist. Tomorrow, let's get a colleague of the Pupovac, if that bothers him so much in Gospić, he's got three locations downtown, and let him say I want this one right here. We from Gospić and we from the Croatian Democratic Community will support it. And that's why we in HDZ plead that further debate does not go into the sense of Nikola Tesla is a Serb, Nikola Tesla is a great Croatian scientist who does not deserve this debate in this House of Commons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76447	Thank you very much. ... What on behalf of HDZ? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the promoter, a colleague named Davor Bernardić appeared. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76448	First of all, I am sorry that there is not one of the most active representatives in the first part of the session in this House. And when I listen to the debates, listening to these discussions over the past two hours, I really wonder if anything can be changed in Croatia at all. As a politician, as a young man, I have a relatively young in Croatia responsibility to try to change some things. I won't agree with those who say those who think differently don't respect this country. Someone always thinks differently. From ignorance, from various initiatives. In the world in the most developed European countries, someone always thinks differently and even evil. But the task of responsible society is to create social frameworks that help to make values go to the surface, and those bad and negative things to be marginalized, or not to affect people's lives. We will never all agree, but if we reach a social standard under which we cannot go, under which we cannot descend, then we can say that as politicians, as a society first of all, as a community of people living in this area of the Republic of Croatia, we may have done something. I really thought that some things in Croatia were impossible to repeat, such as intolerance, intolerance, discussion of the past and return to topics that cost this country lives and cost development. As some of my colleagues have said, some governments have made great efforts when it comes to interethnic tolerance, and I really didn't think that they could come back and that we went one step when certain things could go back to the things they used to be. But unfortunately, in Croatia I can. But that's why I think there's a consensus in the House. Therefore, it is the task of responsible people in all political parties in the Republic of Croatia, I am absolutely sure of that, reasonable and responsible people, to accept those things that are in the interests of Croatia, of its citizens and of which there is a consensus. Because one day when you accept a certain standard, you can't go back. If your standard is too high you can't catch it and you usually fall, if you can reach it, then you can impose certain standards. That's how I see this decision today about the National Day of Nikola Tesla. This will become a reality since 10 July in the Republic of Croatia. As for the monument, I am sorry that there has been no force in Croatian politics in the last 22 years for the monument of Nikola Tesla to return and place in his hometown of Gospić, Smiljan, the monument of Fran Krsinić. And I believe that there is a consensus that this monument should be placed in its home area and I believe that citizens like, Miss also think about it in the same way or similar way, at least a large majority of them. That's what I'm telling you because in this neighborhood, I have a family and I know how these people live and how they think. These are normal, usually people who want to share the same things and the same values with other people in the Republic of Croatia and there is no difference in Croatian regions. There's a difference only in certain policies. And therefore, if no one has done so far in these 22 years with a strong struggle for ethnic tolerance, for questions concerning ethnic tolerance in Croatia, I will suggest that through the conclusion of the Parliament that the town of Gospić is in collaboration with the Government of the Republic of Croatia to return or set up a monument in its hometown. And I think that this initiative will be accepted by all representatives of the Croatian Parliament because this is a question that Croatia must not be shared on. Only when we are united together on this one issue can we have the right to hope that something will change in Croatia. I believe there's still hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76449	Thank you. We've registered three replicas. First vice president at Zeljko Reiner's house.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76450	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bernardić, one small correction and one comment. A little correction regarding the facts in Smilyan there is a monument never to Tesla. As far as Gospić is concerned, locations have been offered long ago. It just takes political will, but I stress everyone, to do it. As for the political will in Gospić, in Lica it exists long ago, it is publicly declared, therefore. And one comment I can't get kidnapped for. I'm afraid and it's sad that this discussion went in one completely, completely wrong direction that I couldn't think at all that it would go away when I actually came to this point because I thought that something that was accepted unanimously and on the board and that, by my deep conviction, everyone would certainly accept it, will simply pass by to accept this proposal and that it goes on. Instead, things are going in one exotic direction of politicizing, association to this or to that, about professionalizing ethnicity, etc., so one completely wrong direction and here's my pleading to all of us, let's finally stop this nonsense. We all agree on that, about that day, let's accept it and finally move on to those things that are really important to Croatian citizens at this point about imaginary problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76451	The replica matches Davor Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76452	Dear academic Rainer, of course I'm informed and I know there's a monument in Smilyan. What we discussed was the return of Fran Kršinić's monument to its home area and from everything I have been able to read in the media, there is really no reason not to support this idea and finally return Tesla's monument to its home area. And I think that only in this way, and that is what you have also suggested, we can indeed discuss in the interests of Croatia in a very relevant and good way by offering solutions, and not by having problems, which means that in every debate as well as in this concrete conclusion, we must bear in mind that we are part of the solution, not part of the problem. And if we carry on like that, there's really a chance we can do something worth doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76453	The second replica of the esteemed Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76454	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bernardiæ, you have said that some governments have strengthened these democratic standards. So, I'm just saying it simply. I think you'll agree that we can actually say all Croatian governments, convene the Parliament, so all these majority, Croatian presidents, since the first Croatian president Dr. The Tudjmans worked with an air and commitment to strengthening democratic standards. So, rule of law, equality before law, respect for the Constitution in this sense, gender equality, protection of human rights, rights of minorities. And that's a fact, we can be proud of that. The second is what is often called political practice. If we were all on different sides, we would sometimes be ready for all that we had advocated, when, in a certain way, we might need to strengthen what we sometimes call the electoral body especially met by the elections. And it is good to have this debate in the Croatian Parliament so that we can fully support ourselves on the right, true standards that we all agree on in principle. Because what do we support? We support the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, its original basis and the Constitution as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76455	On the replica, the esteemed Davor Bernardic gossips.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76456	Dear Mrs Kosor, I think you may have touched one of the most important topics in Croatian politics, which is that often one is spoken, the other is thought, and the other is working. And it's a different pattern of behaviour in the opposition, and then in power, which definitely shouldn't be a feature of Croatian politics because that's why citizens lose confidence in politics. You, of course, did in your mandate, according to my modest assessment of this thing without a fig in your pocket, and I think it is extremely important that all Croatian governments and all Croatian prime ministers who have been developing this very system of democratisation that you have said well were doing this to improve. Croatia is also much more advanced in this regard today. Unfortunately, certain things are being unearthed and trying to impose topics that share us not as a people, but as a society and share that hope among us that we can be better and more successful. And that is why it is very important, particularly, that opposition representatives, especially the right-hand side of this assembly, will first and foremost the Croatian Democratic Community on all important issues of democratisation, for tolerance, for the values on which the Republic of Croatia has been built, come forward and make public views. What I heard today about Nikola Tesla, I must say, is encouraging, but I believe and I would really like it to be discussed on other important topics, because then the issue of historical divisions in the Republic of Croatia would really be resolved. Without that, we will certainly not have the opportunity to bring to the surface what is actually the best in our society, and I think it is the task of Croatian politics and Croatian politicians. Here's what I'm saying because I think you might have pulled it off, so through your debate, the topic that's most important in Croatian politics. So to be credible with what is done on the basis of what is said.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76457	The last replica, the esteemed Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76458	So, you don't need any initiatives to set up and return the monument of Nikola Tesla to Gospić. You're here pulling your roots out of like and you know a lot about it. Today they must take responsibility for why the monument is not returned to them, and the town of Gospić wanted not to decide which location Nikola Tesla will be returned to, but in agreement with one consensus. Today, too, those who do not accept 3 locations in the very centre of the town of Gospic must assume responsibility. In Smiljan's hometown, Nikola Tesla has a monument, has a memorial centre. So those who don't want to agree, who don't want to talk. We gave them three locations in the very center of town, a location where thousands of young people go to school and so we don't hide God's monument, Nikola Tesla. I once again remind me of my relationship with Nikola Tesla, the Croatian genius, we showed the scientist to the institutions after ninety-five, after the Storm he won the Memorial Center. Like I said to the grand building, a monument that visits 40 to 50,000 people annually. He got the street of Nikola Tesla and got a personal university. So there is an equally famous person in the history of Ante Starcevic. But we named the face of the university after scientist Nikola Tesla. And that's how they wanted to show that we don't want to politicise with either Ante Starčević or Nikola Tesla. Today, those who politicize must take responsibility for why the monument of Nikola Tesla in Gospić is no longer available? Because they don't agree to a consensus, they don't agree to an agreement, they don't agree to three locations in the city's closest centre to choose one, and the town of Gospić will not decide on its own just to avoid respecting politicisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76459	The replica matches Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76460	Dear colleague Milinović, here I am as Zagreb's proud that Ante Starcevic has just chosen a sixth cemetery for his death, one of the oldest churches in Zagreb, the church of St. America, or later, the church of St. Mirka and what was buried with the sounds of the Croatian Peasant Association Sljeme-Sestine in the six-packs. As a Zagreber, I am extremely proud that Nikola Tesla is part of Croatian history, culture and the future. And I really don't see any reason why the monument of Nikola Tesla, along with the initiative, should not be used for all the good that is in Croatian society and through the local community, therefore in the cooperation of the town of Gospić and the government of the Republic of Croatia, because this issue is not just a question of the town of Gospić, this is also a question of Croatia. That is why we are discussing this House, and I hope that tomorrow Nikola Tesla will be a world issue. But it's our responsibility as a man to encourage and put that question on the world agenda. And it is therefore necessary to take advantage of the opportunity for the monument to return, i.e. to the town of Gospić, in cooperation with the Government. And I don't think there will be any MPs, I hope, who won't support such an initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76461	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of Croatian Labourists, a colleague, Branko Vuksic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76462	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Now, according to this debate we've had so far, I could ask who Dostoevsky belongs to. Is Dostoyevsky significant by being the Russian or, in my opinion, the greatest writer in the world? Or whose name Shakespeare is in today's doubt about who he belongs to. He belonged to mankind as well as to Tesla. Keeping Tesla and looking closely at him is counterproductive for those who think it's theirs whether by nationality or nationality. First of all, Tesla was a cosmopolitan, genius, philanthropist. What three colleagues have proposed Croatian Labours will support the National Day of Nikola Tesla and I don't think there is any parliamentary representative who won't support it with the hope that it will become the international day of Nikola Tesla. It seems to me that Nikola Tesla came to America two years after Oscar Wilde who when he arrived in America and when the customs officers asked him what he had to report, many already know, he said I have nothing to customs except his genius. It was the same with Tesla. He's a genius whose genes we don't have under quotes now, today, here in the 21st century "Carinites". But there is one danger Mr. Bernardic spoke of, which is that Tesla lives today and here he would surely have to go with his belly after the bread. We don't recognize geniuses, we don't recognize young people we have geniuses, we don't leave them here in Croatia, we don't stop them in Croatia, we send them across the border and we even encourage them to leave. If we go back so we don't really point the debate in the wrong direction, I'll just have a few details that weren't told about Tesla. I'm not gonna talk, I'm not professional enough to talk about what Tesla was doing, and reading the biography isn't in this place. Many know that Tesla had a photographic memory, he liked to eat alone. He was always bothered by people in society when he had lunch. He studied at school already in the early days of English, French, German, Italian. He's one of the few people who read all of Waltaire's works at the time. He was like all the geniuses regardless of the areas of the autodict, in many areas there was an autodict, including the one he dealt with. He was a self-taught man. Nikola Tesla was big, but he was 5 feet tall. He loved himself, no matter what I thought, he liked to dress nicely. He was one of the best-dressed people of that time, and everyone admitted that to him. During the thunderstorm, he most often spoke to himself and did not like anyone getting close to him during the thunderstorm. She's famous for that movie scene when he feeds pigeons, you all remember, but I don't know how many people know his favorite meal was a young roast pigeon. And that's what he was special about. He was special in how he didn't, as Mr Bernardic said, tie himself to things, to material things, so he didn't have an apartment, so he didn't have a house even though he could, he lived in a hotel. And you know probably they found him dead only the other day. So, 24 hours after he died. When he died in the New York Times it was written what we should support here and what we should treat this giant, Nicola Tesla, the greatest scientist and inventor who ever lived on this planet, died. No scientist could hold a candle to him. Therefore, once again on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, we support this commendable initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76463	Thank you. I now invite Vice President Zgrebec to continue the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76464	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76465	Thank you. The work of Nicola Tesla is the heritage of the world. And Tesla has outgrown his Smiljan and Gospić and his Croatian and his Serbian background, and it belongs to the world, and so we should treat him and treat him. It's a measuring unit for the force of the magnetic field. It would not be good for Croatia to become a measured oblivion unit. The three MPs' initiative is only understandable and I don't know how it hasn't occurred to anyone before. It's so natural, it comes from itself so much that it doesn't really have to be explained to anything. They do not need arguments, no additional to strengthen this initiative and no wonder that it will encounter consensus support in the Parliament. The government’s opinion that this proposal enriches and corrects is also good. However, it is not good to vulgarise this topic by politicising any kind. I don't believe that it was anyone's intention but it's good, we have to talk openly about all the topics and it's good to talk openly about the subject of the monument in Gospić because until this issue is resolved the reasons for politicizing will be progress and it's not good to have them. The scar once said that those monuments that weren't at least destroyed twice didn't even make sense to set them up. Maybe he was right. The 56th-year monument of Tesla works by Fran Krsinić is located today in front of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Belgrade and is placed on the waterfalls of Niagara. On 9 July 2006, another monument of Nikola Tesla was set up in these Niagara waterfalls in the park on the Canadian side. This Tesla shows in the natural majority at the moment of the walk, as in the picture from Budapest when it was taken with Goethe's verses, the sand stick began to draw a sketch of its invention, an induction engine which along the way and the podium of the monument itself. On March 14, 2006, a stone foundation for the monument of Nikola Tesla was discovered in Prague. In 1981 Kršinić's monument was also placed in Gospić. I don't think there's any point in discussing why he's down, why he's mined and who did it. There certainly wasn't just one reason. Circumstances were like that. What's more important is that we reach an agreement, finish what's been started, and that monument comes back. It's true. And this should give recognition to the HDZ government at the time of the HDZ government's term of office, Smiljan's memorial home was restored, there was a mined area, that house was semi-destructed by his native, all this is now arranged, there come guests. The HDZ government, I think that the minister was Bishop, agreed with the government of the Republic of Serbia to build a mold of that monument in Belgrade and he was poured out here in the left hand of the monument, in bronze was poured out at the Academy of Arts. That's where he's standing, and it's not good that he's standing there. I am very pleased to hear from my colleague Darko Milinović here and I was very interested and pleased to hear everything he said and I think, I don't know who you agreed with, who the town of Gospić agreed with, so there are three locations but here are representatives of the association. I think it would be good if the town of Gospić, if you agree with the church, if you agree with political parties, you will never agree. And then there will be unfinished business, unfinished business, and if the town of Gospić doesn't agree, the people who are the most responsible, the mayor there, Petar Krmpotić here is now elected in the last elections, the city authorities, the citizens of Gospic have chosen them, they have to do it, you Mr. Darko Milinovic as a very influential Licanian there in the area, here's a parliamentary representative, take the action, so let's go along on July 10th to open that monument, to show that we can do something smart, well, so it doesn't stay the way it is. These are the SDP Club's views. I have to tell you, I don't know if I'm reading it right now, the statements of Ivan Kolic's former mayor. Indeed, he was asked there, what about that monument, he said there was no time to raise a monument by removing such the slightest possibility of returning to Gospić the monument of Tesla, the former Kolic, which I found in the newspaper, perhaps the journalists miswritten, I don't know. I didn't hear him say that sentence because I wasn't there but I know what I read in the paper. He's the mayor now. Do not let such attitudes prevail and survive. Don't let it. Somehow you're the most responsible, I can't be responsible for their statements or their behavior. You are somehow the most responsible and you will best show it to the works so that together with Mirel Holy, with Bernardić that monument on July 10th when we first celebrated that day, Nikola Tesla, that he was restored. The monument still needs to be patented, so it takes five to six days. He just needs to be patented and moved to Gospić. And I think that would be the best end of this story, and it's a good thing that today has made a little difference, that we get to the core of the problem, and that in the end as representatives, and as responsible people, we find a solution to that problem. If that's how it is on July 10th, I think we'll all be too happy. I thank the applicants of this initiative on behalf of the SDP club, the SDP club, of course, for accepting and supporting this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76466	Replica, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76467	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Vice President Stazic, your speech on behalf of the club was a little more peaceful than when you came out of the bench and I wanted to replicate it with just a few sentences and thoughts. First of all, I'd say that the size and significance of Nikola Tesla didn't deserve today's debate, no matter what you think it's good that it's hidden. I think that the importance of his work, his person asked us to have a proper debate in the Croatian Parliament, and that he would also show what it takes for this Parliament to have so much of the desired dignity in the Croatian public. And that's why I think, and I'm going to try to explain it in my individual debate, when we already want to mark a day called Nicole Tesla, let's do it in a quality way, in the right way. The initiative is good, the second question is whether it has called for the provisions of the Constitution that should enable it or not, and I think it is a question for discussion, that the issue of discussion is the marking of the name and last name of significant persons from Croatian history and others, not just Nikola Tesla, and that this should be introduced as a rule. And most importantly, do not call us by name, and especially do not invite the local self-government to do something because it is in her jurisdiction, so that it does not happen that the undeserved Nikola Tesla as in Zagreb is his mark, his name related to something that has nothing to do with him, and that is the fact that they took the monument from the Ruđer Boskovic Institute of the same Nikola Tesla to place him in the city of Zagreb, although the monument was donated to the Ruđer Boskovic Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76468	Thank you. Replication response, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76469	I'm not calling anyone, I'm not calling anyone, I'm just calling you because people from your local self-government are from your party, to influence them to have a monument in Gospić by July 10th. I invite you, it's up to you whether you respect my invitation or not, but if there are no monuments there on July 10th, then at least we'll know who's responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76470	Darko Milinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76471	So, colleague Stazic, vice president of the Croatian Parliament,... while Mayor Milan Kolić said it was not the time to return the monument, it is not true and you have partly responded to that, that you have read it, that you have not heard it. He participated with me in the return initiative of that monument and condemned, as I said that truly vandal act. Once again I want to say from this place, a vandal act, the destruction of the monument of Nikola Tesla. But I was interested in something, I think it's on the threshold and my thinking when you said, don't talk to the political parties, don't talk to the church, we talked to the Orthodox Church that in the area where the Orthodox Church was to return the monument to Nikola Tesla. They have joined Tesla many, including the state, as Serbia has attached him to being their greatest scientist. So in Croatia, they also asked Nikola Tesla as a question of which nation she belonged, so we wanted to settle everything in Gospić. Both the Church and the Serbs in Croatia, we wanted to reach one consensus and then see that you are right, that it is impossible to reach consensus because some want to absolutely politicise the name Nikola Tesla and tie it only to nationality. I didn't listen to your debate today, but here, there are no two colleagues in the House who took this debate in this direction that Nikola Tesla doesn't deserve, like when these Chetniks I mentioned won over in Osijek, it would be good to think like Tesla who recognised Croatia as his country. I agree with that, I will take one initiative on my part in the town of Gospić, and very soon we will say, that is the location, but let's take joint responsibility, that no colleague of Pupovac will say, no, we don't want that, that he won't say, I don't know what he might say, that the Serb community in Croatia won't say, we don't want him to be there, and he'll be in that place wherever he comes into the town of Gospić, he can't pass without seeing him. So in a representative place.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76472	Thanks a lot, buddy. Thank you. Replication response, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76473	And as for the positioning of Tesla, he can be reckoned by whoever he wants in the world because he really belongs to the whole world and that's why we don't have to be angry. As far as the location is concerned, I personally think it would be best to go back to where he was before he was mined. You know, I was talking about Ban Jelačić who was shot down in '45. Or '46. The year because of his role in '48. in the asphyxiation of the Hungarian Revolution, 1848. Well, now wouldn't be a good time for Jelačić to return to Lower Dubrava or set up in Lower Dubrava. It wouldn't be good. He had to go back to where he was before because just like that and only in that way would the results of that mindless act be completely annulled. And think about it in that direction, think about it in that direction, everything else is a bit of a avoidance that the problem is solved completely and completely, and if you bring it back to that same location, I am convinced that neither the Orthodox Church nor any political party, nor the Serb community in Croatia, nor anyone has anything against it, and if it does, it will turn out stupid.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76474	Jadranka Kosor replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76475	Thank you very much. You spoke about a consensus, of course, more than a commendable initiative by our three colleagues who have proposed this debate today, and it would be quite certain that this decision would be made by a more incomparably strong message that it had previously reached a consensus in all clubs, or political parties represented in the Croatian Parliament, so that it would be a joint proposal. However, we are not prohibited from deciding at the end of this debate that the Croatian Parliament is watching over what we are talking about right now, which is the return of the monument of Nikola Tesla. Why don't we set up a parliamentary commission that would work, where we would all work together to get as much as possible before the monument of Nikola Tesla, and we see that there's an agreement, came back or came back to where it belongs. So we can decide at the end of this debate because I think the size of the works of Nikola Tesla obliges us to a minimum today in this debate when we talk about him and his work to a really minimal consensus, but also to dignity. I was with my colleagues from the then Sander Government at that opening ceremony of mentioning the area, that is, the memorial of home in Smiljana, and it was indeed a magnificent event at which, in order to happen, many ministers and many local administration leaders worked in a committed manner. And I think it's an example of how we should continue to work in this process of restoring Nikola Tesla's monument.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76476	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of DC and Independent Representatives Martinčević-Palojevic, Vesna Škare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76477	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here's when someone puts himself into the top ten people in world history, then it's right to say he's one of the great creators of humanity, and that's Nicola Tesla. And I don't think we're alone in this assembly, and we're probably not aware of that importance to humanity either. It is definitely not binding enough for Croatia and its origin in the world is today unknown. I may contribute to this debate in a way that I will read something that he himself wrote in his diary. He said, "I am glad that the Croats also consider me theirs, because my ancestors are Croatian kolenovićs, Draganici from Zadar. Like Croatian nobles from the 16th century. They came to Lika and the others. My ancestors came to Lyco through the New Vindol. My mother's ancestors are also Croatian nobles from New Vindol. My great-grandfather had to go to the Bosnian province, Turkey's Croatia, and there he married an Orthodox girl and moved on to Orthodoxism. He had outstretched front teeth, so the people called him Tesla according to a tool that handles wood from both that and my current name Tesla, it's actually a nickname, my grandfather was an officer in a lyric regiment, and my father was an Orthodox prot." The public idea of Tesla as a Serb born in Croatia, I think we can be positive for relations between Croats and Serbs. I don't know if anyone knows that famous line of his from the beginning. The world war when he spoke to both Croats and Serbs and said, "Your hatred turned into electricity can illuminate cities and cities." Especially when the paraphrasing thoughts of our debates are sometimes infertile, this assembly could indeed be illuminated for years. He is definitely one of the biggest giants Croatia has and I think it absolutely needs to be turned into a Croatian brand, tied to Croatia and thus promoted to its origin. In this sense, Nikola Tesla Association has done a really big job and indeed everything that is connected to Nikola Tesla today and everything that has been promoted from the association by Tesla Corner, Museum, Shop, Tesla Bowl Lightning, Chocolate Sweets, Toranj Tesla in Zagreb, how to become a genius inspired by Nikola Tesla, the organization, the appointment of Park Nikola Tesla in Zagreb, workshops how to develop the creativity and innovation of each individual "Tesla Genius for the future" collection of business and protocol products "Tesla from Smiljana to New York, the Memorial Centre of Đuka Mandić Tesla, hence mother of the source of the genius mind. All these are mini initiatives to promote and tie Tesla to Croatia. And on behalf of them, we thank this club and encourage them to continue, and it is up to us that here in the assembly indeed during the day, this National Day of Nikola Tesla we really open up new opportunities to promote and bind the name to Croatia. Unfortunately, these discussions and frustrations that we have in some way relate to the fact that there is no single institution like the West that would cover all aspects of promoting this kind of genius. We also have a tourist community and the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Science and the HGK and all other institutions that each promotes in its own way, and in fact there is no stronger synergy. And in that sense, and I'm just talking about the need for Nikola Tesla to become a Croatian brand, I think we should do a lot of things there. And this very day is the national day we are discussing today and we will absolutely support it can be the starting point in one spread of this name as a Croatian national brand. Absolutely I don't think there's anyone who wouldn't support this initiative and we thank the colleagues who suggested it. I'm going to finish this presentation with one also quote by Nikola Tesla who said, "Let the future tell the truth, evaluate every man according to his work and merits. The present is theirs, but the future is mine that I have worked so hard for," and that's what he was saying about his results. And here's our club will absolutely support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76478	Thank you. The esteemed Ivan Shuker has applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76479	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Ozbolt, fully agree with what you said and, unfortunately, it is obvious that in Croatia we cannot discuss anything that we all agree on so that people can see that we are able to agree on something. And it is not good that some people take the right to talk about something, and they can hide something instead of what's big in Croatia that we all try to use it in a certain way to promote our country. Thus, when the Nikola Tesla Memorial Centre worked in his hometown, he worked with young Croats to go on trips, to see, to learn and learn about a great Croatian man about a great man who was proud of his Serbian background and his Croatian homeland, so long ago he talked about it. But where did this debate of ours go today? It's sad and that's why I did ask for a break on behalf of the club to try and get that debate back where it belongs. Instead of saying today that we all agree with it and that it's as sad as the former government not day Nikola Tesla was, but it was the year of Nicole Tesla, if you remember, exactly to give him a confession, we are today discussing how we are discussing, in fact not all of us because someone obviously in every debate wants to take some kind of a crumb of politics and thinks he's going to earn points in this, but in the end, he loses this entire Parliament and all the MPs in this House and people can't take it and can't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76480	You didn't answer? We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected Jasen Mesic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76481	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As many have already spoken before me or in this morning's debate have mentioned why Nikola Tesla is important, I don't think it's necessary to explain it further, but we also supported this initiative on committees. What was not good and what was said to have been dedicated all year 2006 to Nikola Tesla, was then created the entire Memorial center in Smiljan in the hometown of Nikola Tesla, that this area was visited by some 40,000 visitors annually, that on that occasion both the home and the church, the demining area, had been set up and a permanent exhibition where its concrete inventions were. What we must ask ourselves, of course, and emphasize when we have before us this announcement of the National Day Initiative of Nikola Tesla, is this memorial year, will this day have any reflection on everyday life in the Republic of Croatia? We have a series of Croatian scientists who have outgrown their origins and the Republic of Croatia, Ruđer Boskovic, Faust Frančić, Matija Vlačić Ilirik, will we now go with the National Day Announcement Initiative Nikola Tesla, and at the same time have never a lower budget for science? Is it the initiative of giving the pitet to scientific achievements, or is it the initiative of this whole society to benefit from this? If this stays just on the day of Nikola Tesla's announcement, where some sort of rally might be held, we'll hold some kind of session, then we'll fall into the trap of pathetics, and we'll sort of say that, we've got Nicola Tesla's day declared, and it'll end. What's kind of a lesson in his life? The lesson of his life that he had to leave these spaces, that he couldn't realize his ideas here, that he went to the end of America and that the ownership of his patents was mainly in America and that the industry that rests there in many ways on his ideas, his inventions and his ideas was benefiting, that this industry from these profits was funding new scientific research and creating opportunities and a platform to attract new young scientists from all over the world. We want Tesla now. It's a beautiful history, beautiful, many of us have studied history. It's nice to hear about what Tesla did. But what teaches us is that man had to go and realize his own ideas. That 15 thousand young people leave the Republic of Croatia annually. Never again. And that's smart, educated, educated people who don't get a chance to find a job, let alone the ability to do scientific work. How then, in some ways, not to experience this pathetic proposal where we propose the day, the national day of Nikola Tesla and never less research for the field of physics, perhaps the colleague Bernardic will know. Never less resources for research in bioethical sciences. Never less for medicine. The Minister of Economy says that we need to train staff for the future in the process of education. Where we could see any strategy to see what kind of frames we needed for the future. And this is said by the economy minister whose party votes budget rebalance or budget where we have 0.75% of GDP for science and we are talking about an average of 3%. We're talking about monuments and, at the same time, the culture budget is never on fire in 20 years. And then we solve it by saying enough is an initiative to declare the national day of Nikola Tesla. It can be just a start, just some extra initiative that has to change something with a stick to make the next Nikola Tesla born or maybe already born in these areas have the ability to work here, to create here and to have more of our society than just one national day. Today you already have electric cars called his name, not made in Croatia. Ownership of these patents is not Croatian, it does not employ Croatian people, Croatian citizens, whatever nationality. It does not contribute to the development of Croatian sciences. There's a patent on the side, and there's a memorial tour of the Smilyans here and there. If this day and this initiative are not meant to create conditions that we may not have had, which we may have missed over the past years then this initiative will remain one day, perhaps for our conscience, perhaps on plus some associations, but it will not have its real effect. In addition, we should consider what happened to the other scientists, we should consider what happened to Ruđer Boskovic, what about Fausto Vrancic, who also tasked Croatia, in some ways and carried her voice across the borders. If we are all like a respected colleague, Mlakar, said we are bound to Article 81. The constitution that we think could be done much better might tie it to the amendments and additions to the Law on Holidays, Unwork Days, and the mention of the days then we will very soon come to a situation where we will have 10-odd memorial days and very difficult to distribute in some way. In this sense, it will be necessary to establish certain criteria for who can truly earn a day, who cannot earn a day. What I wouldn't really talk about anymore is that Tesla is first of all a scientist and you can see it in every statement he makes. How and where and how he was born and, in some ways, selectively used as current political rhetoric is completely unapplicable and does not fully correspond to this initiative. Is it really Article 81? The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is fine, and if you take this debate from this morning where it says, the only thing that I can possibly bind is that, in article 81 below the indent, it brings acts that express the politics of the Croatian Parliament. If we can possibly base this on it then we could certainly listen to a particularly inappropriate debate during the morning about the national day of Nikola Tesla. It would have been a lot better if it had been about something else. It is nice to see the government's positive opinion on the proposal of 19 March 2014 on the acceptance of this national day of Nikola Tesla. We would like it to be really the biggest problem in the Republic of Croatia so that we can really discuss it without any other problems. And at the same time, I have to say that on the agenda of this House, no initiatives have yet come from any other clubs. Let's say that initiative about connecting Croatia's south with the Pelješki Bridge. That it was here in the agenda of the Assembly of Opportunities and for this topic and that topic is waiting. To keep some initiatives waiting, not even in the debate. And in a way, colleagues and colleagues all taste bitterly otherwise to this initiative that the HDZ club has accepted and will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76482	Thank you. We have three replicas. First Vice President of the House, Honorable Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76483	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Reverend Mesic, you've actually mentioned very correctly the two important things that should have been mentioned in this discussion about something that we'll all agree on, which is certainly not supposed to be any obstacles at all, which is that we all support the establishment of this National Day of Nikola Tesla. These two facts that you mentioned, which are a little bit of that, are given so little money for science and technical culture, so for everything we admire about Tesla, and the second is that we are unfortunately discussing it at a time when every day hundreds of young people leave Croatia and those educated, highly educated young people and go to the world to take advantage of what knowledge they have gained here, in which the Croatian state, Croatian citizens, invested significant funds, are used somewhere abroad simply because there is no interest here in Croatia. It is sad that today almost a century, more than a century after Tesla went to America, with a few cents in his pocket, with several songs in his pocket, he also wrote songs, and also with the idea of flying machine because he also imagined and came to Edison with whom he was later in certain reluctances, and later when he was to win the Nobel Prize he refused the Nobel Prize because he was to get along with Edison who he didn't agree with, but in any case, that history is repeated and that unfortunately every day, I will once again say that, hundreds of young people are going abroad precisely because, like Tesla here, they can't realize their ideas, their ideas, they can't find the money to realize their ideas. And so, unfortunately, Tesla has failed to realize a whole series of things here or here, and unfortunately, neither in the United States. Many ideas remain in the notebooks, still being studied, but that's something that puts on our heart and this proposal, which is to make sure that today's Tesla, and I believe that there are some, don't have to go abroad with bread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76484	The replica matches Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76485	Dear fellow Reiner, you as an academic and as a scientist share my opinion that this is exactly what should have been the tendency of today's debate of this initiative, that all together by supporting this initiative we find some new opportunities, new moderations, we give consensus support to this very life story that man had to go across the ocean and now someone else has a direct benefit from the patents he left behind and therefore finance new scientific research, form centres, attract new young talents from all over the world, from India, the Far East, Indonesia, South America, Europe, and create a platform of new knowledge, new values, new patents, new inventions to the good of civilization and certain benefits that creates a new circle of creating new values. It's nice to have this sort of memorial day, but you're a colleague and a professor, you know well how many times you've met young talents that you haven't had, especially at this time, this time of crisis and these situations in the Republic of Croatia don't have a platform for their scientific work, and they have very good ideas. Even colleague Bernardić mentioned a small scientist who made the product, an invention based on Tesla's principles but made it out instead of having a chance to do so in the Republic of Croatia. And I'm going back to that science budget that we're doing neatly, which falls neatly, from the professor's salary, from the teaching conditions, from the cabinets and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76486	Second replica, dear Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76487	Dear counterpart Mesic, people say life in the present is very important that you make good decisions about the past. So, in order to live well in the present, you must not sin in the past. Croatia has unfortunately sinned in the past because instead of opting for the path of knowledge, innovation and technology, it has opted for a way of old, investing big money and great energy in a fallen economy and not doing reforms. Only one example when it comes to funding science in relation to the financing of something that did not produce the desired result, and it was before the shut-down is the issue of shipbuilding. Over 100 billion kunas of state money, the money of the citizens of Zagreb was given through shipbuilding subsidies through the state budget, through support and guarantees, that no single job was opened. 100 billion and one state budget. If this money was invested fully in research and development, connecting universities and labour markets, Croatia might be bigger today, Estonia or au pair of Finland. Unfortunately not. These are decisions of the past and history that we cannot change, but that strongly suggest that today is what will reflect here in 20 years. Therefore, this initiative should also be seen as an initiative to return attention to science, to popularization of science, to working with gifted children, students, students and to enable them to stay here in Croatia through the right through Tesla, through the values he has promoted through the science of young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76488	The replica matches Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76489	I'm very glad of your colleagues, but I can see that you're practically agreeing with the whole debate on behalf of the HDZ Club because that's exactly what we've been talking about, and that's why we insist if it wasn't ideal every time in our past that today we try to be unique in that decision to try and make decisions and conclusions that will reflect the next 10 or 20 years and make improvements both to society and individuals in that society. As for shipbuilding at the time when it relied on science while there was a strong shipping institute at the time, the shipbuilding also had an excellent perspective, an up-to-date platform, and it certainly brought income and improvement. Where, even today, people rely on innovation in shipbuilding, technological knowledge, such as now you have contracted the most valuable ship dredger that is digging across the sea floor, is currently being built in a Croatian shipyard. The most expensive order on our cars is said in the history of people who understand it because it is a highly technologically sophisticated product based on knowledge, science and technological innovation, not just on certain simple to say physical work or simple technological operations. So this activity that you mentioned can be very profitable and useful if it is rightly based on what I believe was an initiative and you as a proponent, so that's exactly what knowledge that ultimately brings added value. But someone in that shipyard stayed, one of the designers. He did not go along with 15000 young people at this point, but he applied his knowledge to the ship's project, which will bring significant benefits to the shipyard and society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76490	The last replica of the respected representative Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76491	Comrade Mesic, I will briefly replicate on your debate more in the sense that I may potentiate some of your thesis. We all really agree that this initiative is good and that it is good to mark the day, national day, to declare the National Day of Nikola Tesla. We all agree that it's very good that we have a Memorial center and that we have monuments, that we always remember the anniversary because the work and the name Nikola Tesla deserves it all together and deserves it. But today is not enough. You have well noticed and insisted in your debate on the problem of young unemployed, on the problem of young scientists and innovators who, when they go outside, some works similar to Nikola and we are proud of them. However, we need to know that we need to keep them in our midst. I may just say this briefly because I will explain it in my individual debate that today Croatia can have the answer for that. And I will also point out that both local authorities can certainly be responsible and give an answer to the present moment. In Karlovac and Karlovac County, a project was created by the Croatian Centre for the Approaching of Low Carbon Economy Nikola Tesla and this project would all be together if we thought Nikola Tesla, our young innovators and scientists and all of us deserved better should all support together.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76492	The replica matches Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76493	This is exactly what respected colleagues are setting the right example of what must be the ultimate result of this initiative. So, a concrete idea, a concrete project in Karlovac and Karlovac County, which was launched by young people in collaboration with their professors who has a specific scientific goal, who only needs certain financial and moral support from the relevant ministries, the Government of the Republic of Croatia to implement, in this sense, benefits both for those persons and for those young scientists and for society. It is this intensity that next year in the budget or already in the budget rebalancing except for the funds that will be provided for the protocol, the marking of the memorial day would be much better even if all of them were to give up and to invest these funds directly in a transparent way in this particular project that you have mentioned about Karlovac and Karlovak County, which you will say more about. There are certainly such projects in other parts of the Republic of Croatia, and certainly today our young scientists in international competitions and innovators and everything else achieve very observed results. Even in the design of robots, therefore, robotics have very interesting inventions and inventions where it would be extremely good to develop, support and in some way lead to this being both widely applied and widely beneficial.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76494	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76495	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today, given the subject, it was not time for the politics or politics of that type we heard here, any kind of passion, starting with some national or some other ideological acuity that appeared here in the form of a verbal fire of certain representatives in the Croatian Parliament, I will not mention their names. Today we are talking about declaring July 10th the National Day of Nikola Tesla, with the right. Therefore, both the HDSSB club and the HDSSB representatives will accept this law and the proposal of colleagues from our parliamentary benches. Why would he do that? Well, because not entirely excluding its origin, and in the roots, I would say if we were to study precisely starting with the great-grandfathers and grandfathers, so to speak, there are Croatian and Serbian roots. Therefore, it is difficult to determine at all, and given his statement that Croatia is his country and that it is proud of it, and at the birth of Serbian nationality there is therefore no need to sew anything in this sense, because he said everything himself. So, genius, humanist, philanthropist, cosmopolitan, world man. Not only Croatian or Serbian, but world citizen of the world. As such, as a genius, as a scientist, first of all a scientist did not like the word inventor because what he was studying was, in fact, what was found in nature but could therefore be applied through his inventions, fertilized to say. That was his goal. And that's why it's hard to even think that anyone here would be against being Nicole Tesla's National Day on July 10th. What happened in Gospić, so for the man who lived 150, was born 150 years before the Homeland War, who had no idea what was going to happen and who was going to bomb Gospić and participate in all this, so there is no need to talk here. But there's something else, when we've already touched this one to say national lines. So let us take people of similar origin and born in the Republic of Croatia, great people like Petar Preradović, such as Josip Runjanin, so music maker for the Croatian anthem Our beautiful, who knows about Grigor Knight who was born in Kosovac near Okucan, of Serbian origin, but a Croatian writer, one of the most fertile writers of children's writers in Croatia and beyond. Of, someone here mentioned the sculptor Vojin Bačić, Vladimir Right, Feldmarshal Svetozar Borojevic, the Austrian so-called Field Marshal who loved Croatia above all else and Croatian soldiers on the front, on Soča, etc. Shall we move on? According to the living, not only to those who are gone. I wouldn't want to point that thing out, nor is it time for us to do it today. So in this Croatia, in this beautiful one of ours, we have people who are thus born and born and therefore do not need to talk about it. We are talking about Nikola Tesla as a scientist, as a researcher, humanist, philanthropist, a cosmopolitan who, by his work and action, and we leave aside and national and any other ideological side deserves that National Day of Nikola Tesla on the day of his birth on July 10th starting on July 10th of this year. Will the monument of Nikola Tesla or why condition it so to rise? Well, we can pick it up by May 10th, until June 10th, so it's no problem to post a postament and put a monument on. Why do we have to be here by July 10th? We have ways to mark that National Day of Nikola Tesla in a number of other ways. So, conditioning something turns out that the promoters actually had someone interpreting conditionality on the National Day of Nikola Tesla with the setting of monuments in Gospić. There is another monument before what a fellow Technical or Engineering Faculty in Belgrade said, and it exists in America in New York. There is also a company in Croatia, so we didn't mention here that Tesla, today Tesla Ericsson also exists on the memory of this great man. Big and by his works, but also as Mr Vuksic said, one foot and 99 is not to mention these physical traits. There are sayings that remain remembered and are quoted here today. And I'm going to add some that are even very current. He says I don't regret that others stole my ideas, I regret they don't have their own. Very current today during these applications of plagiarists and counterfeits of master's and doctoral dissertations and giving various diplomas to universities of the Ministry of Transport, Legal and Other Sciences in the Republic of Croatia. There's a lot of them. Yes, very, very convenient and very current. He says, I don't regret that others stole my ideas, I'm sorry they don't have their own. Or he says this, when we talk about education and science, and we'll talk about it a little later, and the funds that are invested in it, he says I've been learning foreign languages, studying literature and art, spending my best years in libraries reading everything that comes under my hand and thinking that I've wasted my time. But I soon realized that it was the best thing I've ever done. Let us look at today and the system of education, as well as the way students learn. Despite this, there are people in the Republic of Croatia who can also be classified as scientists or innovators, and maybe they can count the names of some who even here were. So, who have achieved significant results in competitions around the world. Since these are people who are still among us and may not be good enough for me to list those names that have been marked and to say the information era of the so-called robotics where they stand out, but let's go from our Ossetian Matija Kopic, Matej Špulera, Tomislav Cara, Miss Ivana Maršić, Mia Marić, etc. There are more, there are many of them, but about this now is not the time but rather the little bit more about Nikola Tesla who, somewhere at 13 years after Austro-Hungarian and French reached and until 30 years ago, reached America. What is very, which characterizes him as a man of principle, a man of principle is that he refused the Nobel Prize. Can anyone think of us or to refuse the Nobel Prize because he has to share it with Mr. Edison, indeed a man of principle, of the principle of whatever principle you want, making it clear that this other prize doesn't deserve and that he has to share it won't. All of us here today are going to debate or a lot of us about Nikola Tesla and when this mandate is over or even if it stays and more mandates, we're going to go a little bit into somebody's memories, but for 155 years not only memories but also works that he's done, and even some inventions that are still a secret in some American files that exist and still top scientists in the world are not understandable, so top scientists are not understood. There may also come a time when it will develop and apply. So Nikola Tesla stays, and when we leave all of the Parliament, from our convocations or all of the convocations that exist at all, the name remains, and therefore that name will remain, and there is really no need for those 19 other national days in Croatia that we have, now that we don't list all 19, so there are national days to be this 20, so the National Day of Nikola Tesla. On what national days they are, I don't want, I think that a large number of MPs here know what national days are in the Republic of Croatia, therefore the National Day of Nikola Tesla, judging by the mood here in the Parliament and the debates, I don't think there will be any choirs on Friday that won't be voted. About the fact that the résumé itself, about the birth of Smiljan where there is a home arranged, and then the memorial center, and then as we've heard here, will be a restored monument never has to go so much partyly, scar this mayor, that chief, so this one wanted, he didn't want, so there's no need. Now there's a monument in the Croatian Fine Arts Academy, right? He was restored and let's not argue and comment on what it was, how it was to make a simple conclusion that the monument was also placed in a certain place in his not to tell his native Gospić, but Smiljan Gospić is there. Why open up to say debates or live wounds and now go about it, again we're dealing with Ustasha's ideology, the Partizans instead of doing something that I can say belongs to us, what this proposal suggests, and where this proposal is not at all, but it doesn't really look back at the beginning of that debate that was here today with that scarcity again, and I say not to say both Partizana and who not everything. There's no ideology here, no need to have it, no need for ideology. About the encyclopaedias of Italy, about Britain, about the fact that Americans are among the hundred most significant people of the century Nikola Tesla, about it already has been said enough so that we have nothing to add except what my colleague Mesic was saying, so that this country is indeed and this government is in the separation of science really to say the funds minimalized, so 0.7% of GDP in education is a little bit more but in relation to some other countries and even countries in an environment like Slovenia without talking about Sweden or Finland where these funds and 12 times larger, which is what is sad, I would quote a lot of young, smart, educated people for whom this country is called Alexa Chantić, who wrote a song you are staying here, unfortunately this government and this policy is not exactly behind those songs and titles and a lot of young, smart, educated, many people for whom this country, of course and their parents don't say much of Europe from the sea countries, and the New York countries, etc. It's a real sadness, it's a monster that's come along and that lasts and I don't know. Nikola Tesla as well as some other young people, today in Croatia, however, and we have a lot of them in scientific and innovation circles, however, stick to those songs A.B. Šimić called "Note" and the first verse is "Man, be careful not to go under the stars." Since Nikola Tesla wasn't walking under the stars even though he was our regular man from Like and Smiljana, I mean, I repeat again that the HDSSB club will be for this bill. [[Intruder Stazic: Bring the end.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76496	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected colleague of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76497	Thank you very much. Comrade Grubisic, I liked your debate, and it is not the first time and many of the examples you have set because you have spoken what I think is the essence of today's debate. You talked about the deserved Croatian people regardless of their background, nationality, the merits of people like Nikola Tesla and in the context of politics, I especially like it, so these affairs, the current ones that touch science and education, because the fact is also from this set, so to speak, the generations of politicians and the past, will remain few names in Croatian history, but the name Nikola Tesla will shine forever and that is a fact, so it can be an example of many things. No matter what business they're in, they're doctors, they're lawyers, they're professional politicians, always and at all times he can be a role model. As I may be and, I don't know, both Faust Vrančić and Gundulić and Držić and Marulić and Krleža because I think the essence of your debate was in the following, how much and how do we respect Croatian giants, how many do we remember, when we highlight them, them and their work? On occasions, from opportunity to occasion and then actually darkens, and it should be the other way around. And so here, I commend your debate if I may dare.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76498	Answer, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76499	Thank you very much, colleague Kosor, I'm glad you got my message, too, and in fact, here's my colleague Shuker said I was a poetic soul, that he didn't know, so he agreed. But look only at those, part of the name that I have listed, which is significant for, in general, for Croatian name at all in culture and in history, so also as warlords, I am also talking about Peter Preradovic, Svetozar Borojevic, born at Kostajnica, Artici then the sculptor Bakic, and today, we have living examples starting with Pera Krgić and I would not want to, I said that I would not live to speak, but therefore they are Croatian artists, that their roots and their roots may or part of the Serbian National Corps, it is irrelevant, they live, work, they are considered Croatian. So look at Grigore Knight, so who at all, I won't say now that there are few people here who know that he's pulling roots too, but he's a Croatian children's writer and he's always called himself that, and it's always going to be that way and it's going to be very important, and in Novi Gradišca we have an annual marking, the school has the name of Grigora Knight and we know about his works, etc. Here, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76500	A new replica, respected Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76501	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, I haven't appeared until now, in the course of the debate, because I was simply at the beginning of those two discussions so caught up in some way without a word, and even if it doesn't happen to me often because just one such valuable initiative to go in such a way, I think it's inadmissible, and therefore I welcome your debate where you guide examples of our Serbian citizens who have contributed. One of these is Petar Preradovic, who carries the name of the street in my Gola, the street has a name in Gola, and I think that such positive examples should be pointed out and on these foundations should be built of course all that good, that we all contribute, therefore to that community, and not that perhaps these things are used for other purposes. May it be an invitation to those who think differently and sow here, and pray to God that the rain falls somewhere else. So here's how I welcome your debate, and I think we all do, but of course we have to create a framework and those who want to work, create, and not, of course, our young scientists, people from the profession go around the world and that they can't create. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76502	It matches the line, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76503	Thank you very much. I named my colleague Milinkovic a lot of people, so those who have their roots and I say this, come from this Serbian part, but all these people loved their Croatian homeland, all of them. One of course, Petar Preradovic is considered a Croatian writer. While you were speaking, you have the street of Petra Preradović, yes, we have in Zagreb and everywhere, so also Preradovićeva and Runjanin Street and a number of others. In Slavonski Brod, for a time the reorganization of the street name was two streets of Nikola Tesla, interestingly, yes, that two streets were named after Nikola Tesla. So that Croatia should love its greats, indeed Croatian giants, and about whose roots they were, but have contributed to their homeland, to their Croatia, to our beauty, we need to valorise this as well as to the work of Nikola Tesla. There. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76504	New replica, dear Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76505	Dear Representative Grubisic, you mentioned that the initiative was conditioned by some monument here, but what is important is to say that man is as big as his works live. And Tesla's actions at this point are much more relevant than they were in the past. So Tesla is alive, it shows this debate in the assembly today, and it shows his actions. And the greatest monument a man can have for life are monuments that are a lasting pledge to the contribution of mankind. And to watch this debate in the Croatian Parliament would probably be a little bit funny why a monument is being discussed at some location, but it is a big and serious matter and a question for Croatia, for a test of our maturity because monuments are what you would see. And what is clear is that the monuments of Never Tsele are everywhere throughout the world through lighting bodies, through pillars that supply electricity and through various and colorful electrical machines and appliances. These are monuments, his monuments are everywhere in the world, and they are present in every place.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76506	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76507	Thank you very much, colleague Bernardic. Well, I'm exactly what you said and said, if you listened very carefully. But what I said about the monument itself, so concrete would or don't know the monument, is that during the debate it appeared here, if you want me to name who forced it, so during the debate the idea that the monument must just be erected on July 10th, although I think it may be May 01st if we want, completely irrelevant. So, July 10th and right in a particular place that there, I don't know someone designated or wants to determine it. And the mention as it was here was completely unnecessary, miserable about the badger that we don't talk about, is completely, completely unnecessaryly related to the name of Nikola Tesla.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76508	The last replica of the esteemed Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76509	Dear Grubisic, we don't have too many well-deserved people either in tights or in the wider and global environment. And that is why anyone who has made a contribution that is extremely important to mark, whether it is the mention of books, the mention of records, the monument, the mention of the day. And that's why we all have to try both in our environments and in our positions to mark it to remain for future generations. I've had occasions for Ivan Mesnar, an explicanist for his merits to publish the book of Zdenko Markovic's record. I had the honor of President Tudjman for contributing to the thousand-year-old dream of the Croatian people to build a monument, and for the civilization achievement of Nikola Tesla to build a monument in Požega. And here today I didn't even answer for the debate, I expected that in one peace without hatred, without planting, without any personal calculations or reckoning that we would support here and bring this proposal, we would support this proposal for the Memorial day or the National Day of Nikola Tesla. Well, here I am taking Boro's word just to keep this style right here, which you've shown this time, the truth God in me rarely, but here you've shown it to go in this one tolerated tone unlike some other MPs who have spoken one language that's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76510	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76511	Thank you very much! I'm a colleague of Ronko's. I don't know what to say to this of yours, especially this neighborhood where you liked my exposure and that you rarely agree with me. It's a good thing we rarely get along, it wouldn't be good if we got along too much. However, here I ruled out ideology, here I ruled out any national aversion, here we are, I said here we are talking about Tesla as a scientist, inventor, man of the world's voice and format, with roots from Croatia, Croatian origin, Croatian homeland and as his Croatian homeland. Why would they mind announcing Nicola Tesla's National Day? Therefore, about the other greats of Croatia, it is clear that they should not be forgotten. Very often we talk here about the defenders of the Ironjski, nobody in the Croatian Parliament talks about it and few knows them, but Mr Mesic knows well about Nikola Ozegović Captain of the Ironjski and 300 Croatian knights who have not surrendered to the Turks, but have frozen at the tower in the Ironium for five hundred and some years, but the Croatian Parliament has never specifically discussed it, these are also great ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76512	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the National Minorities Club, the respected Nedzad Hodzic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76513	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the Club of Representatives of National Minorities will support this proposal and so that this debate would not last too long I will just say a few sentences. Croatia has a natural phenomenon such as, among others, Plitvice Lakes, has a historical phenomenon such as the city of Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik Republic, and has a phenomenon of Nikola Tesla incomparable in my opinion to any other man who was born in these areas not only in Croatia but also in a wider and European and world space. The work of Nikola Tesla is compared only to those left for world heritage by Darwin, leaving Einstein and a very small number of people who thus marked the development of the world as a whole. So Nicole Tesla could use it, so I'm going to use it in economic terms. The guy doesn't have a better development potential than Nicola Tesla's name and brand. As modern as he is today, I will remind you only therefore complete among other electricity systems that we meet today all times daily on multiple occasions daily is related to his multiphase three-phase electrical system, which today is a world system for producing and transmission of electricity. How much the economy has been globally European and Croatian development on these principles should not be lost at all. I'll just remind you that when the power system in the Philippines was disrupted by the failure of a transformer working on the principles that Nicola Tesla invented or set up, that transformer was manufactured in Končaro, so hurryed that the plane was the world's largest cargo plane, the Antonov plane that transported it, what the public interest was you saw from the machine itself as such. And I received a 30% bigger machine in Ukraine for our TE in Ugljevik at the time, so it was a phenomenon of the product itself, a phenomenon of transporting such a heavy machine through the city to the airport, how to transport it, so panic occurs in the world when only one tiny elemntic jumps out of that system set up by Nikola Tesla starts from production to transport and use electricity. In energy nothing at all changes, in the production of therefore production, transmission, distribution of electricity is today on all these principles, among other patents, only the way heat is converted into electricity so that one of the principles of heating water is where we lay gas and oil and coal, others are where the nukes are. But everything from the turbine that we're turning mechanical energy to and from the generator, the blocktrafoa, the transmission, it's all still the same thing some improvements are made in a technological sense. So I would ask that this phenomenon of Nikola Tesla be neither necessary nor necessary to be the subject of political debates or bickering. He said everything about himself, that Serbian gender and Croatian origin are eating and that there is nothing to be added. But I would like to welcome this idea and thank my colleagues who initiated this by extending one other initiative to design one serious project other than the memorial centre that is in Smiljan, so on the basis of its patents, one museum of his patents and all over the world is created, but believe me, in Lika and around here, you could build an entire small complex and hotel that there is no basic, high school or technical college from Europe and the world that would not want to see where such a genius was born and that this is one enormously incomprehensible development potential for Lika. And I ask you, especially, those who can influence this at local level to think about it, we have European funds, so we can use certain development funds, and that trail should be considered in the future. Thank you again to the colleagues who initiated this and in the name of the club full of support for the national day of Nikola Tesla on 10 July.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76514	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Hodzic, you have said several initiatives related to our scientist Nikola Tesla, I would like to say another initiative here. Namely, to return Ruđer Boskovic's original monument to the Ruđer Boskovic Institute. Ivan Meštrovic knew about the synergy of Ruđer Boskovic and Nikola Tesla and placed it there in front of the institute both of our scientists and it is known that Nikola Tesla often drew inspiration from the part but also from the character Ruđer Boskovic. They set them together as well as how Nikola Tesla reads Ruđer Boskovic's book "The Theory of Philosophy Naturalis". It would be very nice to correct this great injustice where the monument of Nikola Tesla is originally placed in the street of Nikola Tesla in the city of Zagreb. In front of that monument, unfortunately bicycles are left behind, completely undetected, should be returned to your great friend, should be returned to the man who inspired Ruđer Boskovic to continue to be outside Ruđer Boskovic Institute and thus, if you spoke of a tourist offer, so here if we can use Nikola Tesla to see him today, they're taking a terrible advantage of him for all purposes, and then it can also be an excellent tourist offer. But indeed something that does not seem unfair to any other scientist in Croatia but famous in the world. It's my initiative, and I'm really getting attached to your initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76515	The replica matches Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76516	Thank you, colleagues of the twilight. Well, I wouldn't think too much about the monuments, losing energy or power. In fact, Tesla did not create his inventions and patents to build monuments but to make mankind better than that. And what an intrusion of his inventions is simply that neither to me nor to me, and I am today's technical professions inconceivable, and trust me even less perhaps to you who are not from that sphere. So I believe that it should be used and that even he would be happy that where he was born, where he had to go unfortunately under the conditions they were, it's not so important at this point, so that he would be happy to have those patents put up there, to show themselves to young people because his genius is universal value and not to die out but to gain more and more importance in humanity in the history of humanity. I think that like an undeveloped region, Croatia as well as 20% of GDP from tourism, the country is very intense about tourism, I think it has huge potential. I think it's one of the projects that could be thought about and tried to implement it and with little marketing I believe that reservations for such a mini hotel complex down there where maybe some school and some lectures of 2, 3 days would be held on the subject of his patents and his contributions. So that's one idea that I'm going through right now as an idea but not a project that could be developed by me and that should be seriously thought about. And the monument, of course, should be returned to the monuments, not to tear down the monuments of those who deserve to be placed on them, not his or any other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76517	Second replica, dear Mille Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76518	Thank you. My colleague Hodzic, in any case, you are one of the most invited people who can talk about the work of Nikola Tesla, given your education, expertise and work experience. And I support your initiative to make a museum and hotels and some kind of tourist business in Lika, as I support my colleague Sumrak's initiative that the same thing can be done from the name Ruđer Boskovic. However, the whole thing is preceded by one previous question. And this is Gospić, the town of Gospić, the village of Pocitel, Divoselo Kozjan, the town of Gospić, Lovovac, Gornja Ploča, the town of Gospojvine, the village of Selici, Gospić Donji, Lapac, Busevic, those are places that have no electricity today. I'm talking about Nikola Tesla, and these are places that don't have electricity. Children still go to primary and secondary school with candlelight today. He'll probably finish some college with a candle. And this whole story costs us 10 million kunas per budget. I respect all the initiatives, and all these stories are, by my free grade, pretty empty until we solve these people's problems. Let's not close our eyes to facts and blur things out with big phrases about big days of great people. Let's help these people. And then that day will be... A great man. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76519	The answer to the replica Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76520	Of course I can only express my regret that it is so because in the 21st century being without electricity and that in the area where Nikola Tesla was born is simply ridiculous. That's why I'm thinking this way that I need that potential the way I see it, I am a little bit more and still an entrepreneurial debt, so his phenomenon for me is as big as the Keeps Pyramid which is now for me in the lego cubes that should be folded in Lica, like the Eiffel Tower. So I see in it enormous potential for this country. Because it's something that, to make a little joke about these people and he was born in the dark, he might be born until we make it another genius down there. But it's simply one potential, and I'm glad that most of the debates today went in one constructive direction to forget, not to talk about Cyrillics, Latins or I don't know, to talk about real, valuable people in this society and to build a society that will be one thing in the future to say healthy, normal, civil society. I repeat very often here, all political goals have been achieved, independence, sovereignty, borders of AVNOJska, NATO Pact, the European Union, we have no other political goals except two: economic well-being for all citizens and legal security for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76521	Thank you. We'll hear more views from the HNS Club and the esteemed colleague Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76522	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, I apologize, my colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, unfortunately no more. One of my colleagues is this morning, here he is, there's the promoter, then there's the esteemed representative of the promoter. A colleague of mine said this morning, when we commented on this proposal that Tesla was born in Austria, Austria would live on it. And I think it's actually a lot more than that in this debate you shouldn't even say. The HNS of course supports this initiative. Thinking and talking exclusively about the initiative here, regardless of the things that were said earlier in this debate, agreed with them or disagreed. 10.7 is in the middle of the tourist season. So it's not just a matter of days, it's a whole project issue about it. What counterpart Hodzic probably and some colleagues have already said before, so this is a question of day and question of the whole valorisation project Nikola Tesla, his reputation, his name, scientific, educational, tourist, commercial, in every way possible. So, all that how all those institutions in the world that have something to do with or with someone to praise use it. I mean the New Yorker hotel where he's been living for the last 10 years that marks it regularly, they call him New Yorker, he's a New Yorker for them, they mark it and earn it, they earn it. We're unfortunately a country that has very little, it's not, it's not our fault, we're small, there's a little general, but that's why we have very little to offer in the world scales in any activity and so on. And one such name that we don't use enough and that we don't valorize enough for very under quotes of "ground-floor goals", promotion of the country and profit. We're not gonna lie to each other. That's where, after all, at which, after all, those days and then this whole offer that's around these days should be made alive and should live. So, we at the HNS, of course, support this proposal. I won't be longer by respecting your time and time of day as it is right now. Everything is more or less in this debate said. But allow me the last sentence, yet I can't help it, I think it's unfortunate that his nationality today was even a topic. And unfortunately that shows how small we are and how much we still have to learn. But we hope that this day will move us a little in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76523	We're moving on to replicas. First Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76524	Your Honor, Mr. President. Colloman, I want to look back on this last part of the laundry speech, it's sad, it's sad. I agree that today is sad, sad. So let's figure out who's proposing this initiative, this agenda point that we've all accepted, and for what we've all said, let's do something to promote Tesla in Croatia even more than we've ever seen before. That was supposed to be the subject. We had a consensus and we were going into some kind of realization of an idea, some projects, and there was nothing else we should have said. So what happens now? Two out of three, you're ruling it proposed, so Pupovac is part of the ruling coalition, Cain is part of the ruling coalition, etc., you've introduced politics on behalf of Nikola Tesla, it's for shame yourself. You've opened the issue of partisans here, you've opened the question of Tito here, you're equating Tito and Tesla. That's Cain's even. You've opened Jadovka here where there's a pit in which people are thrown, you've opened up here, yes, yes, there's a pit in the face, it's not a pit, it's a den, I think I'm right to say, if I don't apologize, you know what I'm talking about. To end with me and all of us, but to me because I'm sitting here, Pupovac told Tesla he was shot down because he's a Serb. In simple terms, it is, but it was a context where it cannot use the situation to spread hatred between the Croatian and Serbian people in Croatia. And you gentlemen spread hate, that's what. It's enough here that in this House, we can only say that in the bureau, on the street, enough to accuse Croatia of something that is not guilty. So it's not enough that we built a Tesla monument in Zagreb, that there's a school in Split, here's his bust, now because someone knocked down a monument in Gospić Croatia on a pillar of shame. Let them be ashamed of you, I no longer want to hear such speeches in this House, where they imagine how they will mourn Croatia. It's the point of things and it doesn't matter what's going on around here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76525	Thank you. But colleague Marasovic, so give it when you are warned to stop talking then if you have already run out of time. For you, time must apply to rules as well as to all others. Igor Coleman will answer your line. Are you responding to the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76526	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. My colleague Marasovic, I don't remember, I may be wrong, but I don't remember ever mentioning the word partisan in this House. I think this was the first time, I'll check it out. So, yeah, I don't care. But what I'm saying is, it's not a problem and we'll never get out of the problem of nationality. Not only until we finally get rid of that because someone was a national need to take something away from him or something, but there's another more dangerous thing, and that's because someone was some nationality we have to point out that he was great and that there are other members of his nationality who were super Croats and then he can, he deserved to have his day. Nationality is not a topic, nationality is not a topic at all, no matter what perspective we look at it from, whether because of the nationality of someone we take away something or praise as because he was a good member of that nationality, so he deserves it. ... I didn't say you were speaking, but you've replicated me, I answer to you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's why I said that the problem of emphasising nationality is a problem. No matter what perspective we are dealing with this criterion, it is simply not a criterion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76527	A new replica, the gnome of the twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76528	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Coleman, I will take one quote from Tesla's diary in some way continue in your debate but in some ways continue, perhaps I will be reminded by the Vice President of the Parliament, and by the answer of yours in the replica of my colleague. So Tesla writes, this new world must be a world where there will be no exploitation of the weak of the strong, the good of the wicked, where there will be no humiliation of the poor from the violence of the rich, where works of the mind, science and skills will serve the community for the relief and beauty of life, not for individuals to gain wealth. This new world cannot be a world of humbled, trampled, but a world of free-minded peoples and peoples equal in dignity and respect for man. And I really think that in your reply to the replica you said, a man like that who wrote it can't expect this kind of debate. He can't. He can't. I think it's diabolical, that it's of most MPs the least embarrassing of all. We can all really agree here today that Nikola Tesla deserves it if the initiative is such that one day it's Nikola Tesla's National Day. We also have other scientists and artists and writers who would certainly deserve to have one such day, but we are discussing Nikola Tesla right now. And really well said, here I joined in the replica only with this quote, what he wrote himself. I think he wrote a lot and that in a new world like this while he was doing all these inventions he absolutely didn't even want him to, and that's why he had to leave, as most scientists are leaving because there's this new world of theirs maybe once in a while, sometimes maybe he'll still make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76529	The replica matches the esteemed Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76530	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade twilight, thank you, too, for this quote you've read. It's a quote that deserves to be carved above the head of the President of Parliament, so it's true, you've made a great choice, and I have nothing to add except to agree with both you and that quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76531	The last replica, respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76532	You have repeated it several times and in response and so in your basic debate, ending your debate that you are truly saddened that today's debate has begun and we have exhausted the good part of it by talking about Tesla's nationality. However, I also believe that we as a people must accept as citizens everything that was good and be proud of it, but we today-day still have some rule that what a fool is ashamed of this other and vice versa. So when the whole world has been celebrating a Tesla for decades and decades. In the 1990s, we used some wise men back in the '90s, another invention of one terrible, equally powerful Nobel scientist and so much they used it to plant dynamite under a monument of such a giant. Then we can't really think of such times as that to condemn them and to be ashamed of them all together. Unfortunately, the perpetrators have not yet been found. They're the dynamite that brought the houses down. And that's why, and after that, there was a 15-year silence. Today, too, many speak for not so much faith but always because the foundation is their own sin, and now we are competing again who will celebrate it more. It's a good thing that time came, but we can't keep our mouth shut about what happened in our not-so-distant past.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76533	The replica matches Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76534	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, counterpart Anticevic-Marinovic. I agree in one part actually, that's what I said in the replica of my colleague Marasovic. We will take a serious step from this situation that you are talking about, because of the situation that you are talking about, when not only will we not make it impossible for someone who is a minority nationality or other nationality to do so, but also when we do not have to apologize because we have made something possible for someone from other or minority nationalities under quotes. At that moment, we'll be the nation that this is about what you're talking about surpassed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76535	That's what ended the club debate. I'm gonna set a break now. We'll continue the individual debate at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76536	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue our individual debate. Hope Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76537	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here is the respecting importance of this agenda and this agenda item, which is on the agenda, and I would like to contribute with this individual debate some of the solutions that we had in the discussions very often by noon as questionnaires. Namely, I would like to present a... project called the Croatian Center for Approaching the Low-Agricultural Economy called Nikola Tesla, which was created as the idea of a number of generations of students and professors of the Karlovac High School in partnership with the town of Karlovac and the county of Karlovac and in a professional way the ideas and ideas of the project are presented by the cultural and scientific public in the city of Karlovac and beyond. And why the Carlovite? Very often when we talk about the biography of Nikola Tesla, it is mentioned that he finished... in the high school of Karlovac and every time some anniversary is marked at that school, he inevitably devotes himself part of the program to remembering the work and to the name of Nikola Tesla himself. And Nikola Tesla, in his autobiography, spoke with good memories about the town of Karlovac, about swimming on the river Koran, especially about his interest in physics and science precisely from his professor at the Karlovak high school who interested him in electricity. Encouraged by this professor who demonstrated the basis for the apparatus he invented and adapted to experiments with the students. It's mostly quotes from his autobiography. Simply in the town of Karlovac, she saw the idea that it would be very good for Karlovac as a town on water, name and all the achievements of Nikola Tesla as a light to promote and create a brand where Karlovac would pose in relation to Croatia and Croatia in terms of Europe and the world in terms of tourist attraction, however, it is not enough. Nikola Tesla is a brilliant scientist and should have completed the project with a scientific approach. So the idea arises that the project as a concept would promote the low-carbon economy, low-carbon technology in... the innovation of Nikola Tesla in a way that the existing facilities and the high school mentioned, kindergarten, two-purpose shelter and the very house of innovation on... No. 6, so all buildings would be built and adapted to the concept of energy efficiency. All these facilities would represent one whole connected to roof vaults with integrated heat and photovoltaic solar converters. They would be connected to earth’s collectors, they would have shown urban winds, there would be electric floors that would turn the dynamic energy of human steps into electricity, and rainwater tanks would be sufficient for sanitary nodes. In fact, the idea is that it would actually be physical or scientific laboratories where scientists would work, and children could see in a concrete and practical way how their steps, how their games on playgrounds produce different forms of energy with low carbon dioxide emissions. Of course, in order to achieve the objectives, to create formal and informal education for young people, to develop an interest in technology and in engineering interests, to promote innovation and to bring science closer to the economy, entrepreneurship would be encouraged and energy efficiency would certainly be promoted. The rational use of energy by reducing CO2 footprints is in line with the international agreements signed by the Republic of Croatia, it would safeguard, it would show how the environment can be preserved and how all this together can affect the development of the economy and increase employment. We think this is a benefit, but one long-term would be a benefit because it would be one scientific laboratory where you would be raised and where you would learn generations of future young innovators and scientists, and I also think it's one of the best ways to devote, or how to devote and give proper attention to the works of Nikola Tesla. Due to the educational component of this project, the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports has included it in the database, i.e. projects for application to the European Regional Development Funds. The project has also run to withdraw funds from the Energy Efficiency Fund to co-finance technical documentation and I must say that we have received a refusal. President of the Republic, Ivo Josipovic recognised in this project the possibility of promoting the Republic of Croatia along with Nikola Tesla's brand at European and global level, and he showed interest and in 20.05. the project will be presented and will be introduced to him by those creators of the project itself. The project can have the opportunity to apply to different funds, depending on which direction it is wanted ić, but its great value I repeat in this very approach of young people, the opening of science and science, innovations and young people, as well as economics and entrepreneurs. I would like that, when we had a lot of dilemmas today about how and in what way, and other than some conferences, that is, except for sessions where we would mark and mark Nicola Tesla's Day. To realize that with the fact that I'm not demeaning even I support it is necessary and indeed something concrete, something that would leave the same benefit to future generations, at least normally not in terms of how we have the genius mind of Nikola Tesla, but within the needs and challenges of the present time. So I call on the parliamentary representatives to support this project that came from a good high school, from the high school that Nikola Tesla attended, which came from a good local environment which here we have shown a truly real, concrete scientific and mature, so to speak, a mature approach today is ready to respond to the challenges of today's time and one great and one name to shed light on in a different way than in the context we have discussed so far. So let this bright road of Nikola Tesla continue with these projects, especially the representatives of the ruling majority, you may now have more opportunity through the ministries to recognize this good project, the Nikola Tesla project in a town he talked about so nicely, which is our city, our Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76538	Thank you, too. Clear Mesic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76539	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues, and here it is really nice to see and hear that there is such a concrete example of how to give a pate to the work of Nikola Tesla in the right sense. I'm glad that this project obviously had the support of the local community, but it's also really sad to hear that you've been denied the project. And now imagine that we have proposed that this whole initiative with the announcement of Dana Tesla, to create a small font, let's say, which would bear the name Nikola Tesla and which would aim to fund domestic inventors, innovators the international protection of patents that they report provided that this patent is realised possibly by its production in the Republic of Croatia. For the start of only one million kunas of the first year. So, any domestic inventor who creates a patent that needs international protection not to be stolen by large companies, is financed on condition that it is produced in the Republic of Croatia. Either that in some way every inventor, or association, or local environment, or organisation that gets its patent from the European Union funds, to provide him with domestic participation, 15.25.30%, 50% of what project he needs. Then they'd have a lot of effect on Nikola Tesla's memorial day. And just like these examples you've done, you'll have a place to go and where more effect than a formal announcement of a memorial day.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76540	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76541	Here's my colleague, I'm glad you recognized the value of this project, which is certainly still in the proposal. He has support because for each project application he should have a partner. The town of Karlovac and Karlovac County are partners in the project. I think it's very good that the Ministry of Science and Education recognizes this very moment of education that's being talked about, because it's predicted that there could be 200 students in these four scientific battles. So imagine when you multiply it by all those times a year that would go by, you see all that together, that would be potential. However, what I said about the project has really many components, it can also be interesting to apply to the European Regional Development Fund, for the European Social Fund, for Culture 20-20, the Cultural Development Fund, Horizon 20-20, which is intended for research and innovation, Erasmus. And what may also be important in Croatia, we talk about it and we are not really the strongest in it, there is a lot of resistance, a program for lifelong learning. It is the same programme for the period from 2007 to 2013, here we are a little late, but it is also trying to contribute to the development of the European Union. We, knowing the people who are working on this project, who have also succeeded in the state-level project base to insert the Koorium known in Karlovac. We don't think we're going to give up on this very valuable project, but I repeat this assembly debate is just a fertile ground to support and that this project
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76542	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76543	... doesn't make it a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76544	Thank you. Tomislav Jagar, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76545	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to try to really do in a brief debate here at the end to say a few reasons why I think this initiative is extremely good. And before that, he would, of course, welcome the initiative and especially fellow MPs proposed by fellow Members Mirela Holy, Damir Kajin and Davor Bernardic. I've already said in the replica that I'm sorry that I'm not part of this initiative but through this debate I'd like to say just a few words about what I think is important to say today because we are really talking about a great man. Nikola Tesla was first of all a great man and it's time to thank him for all that he left for mankind's inheritance. He said many times to invent or how he liked to call them inventions that they did not actually undo what it was until then but open up great possibilities to apply it in another way. I'd call him a scientific saint. His life talked about it, he was a peacemaker but he was an extremely brave man. What is important today to point out, and this is a kind of message and this initiative that Nikola Tesla has not easily come to her discoveries, it must not be forgotten. So let me read very warly from his biography something that he wrote himself. He says, "I've drowned a dozen times, they almost cooked me alive and almost burned me, I was buried, lost and frozen. I escaped by the hair of wild dogs, boars and other wild animals. I survived terrible illnesses and met with all sorts of strangest accidents, and I still remained brave and whole, which is a miracle. But when I remember all these events, I'm convinced I didn't save myself by accident. The inventor's goal is to... save lives either to use the forces of nature either to perfect plans or to allow new reliefs and benefits. He contributes to the safety of our existence. The inventor is also more capable than the average man to protect himself from danger because he is careful and inventive." Nikola Tesla used to talk about big things. He spoke many times, and we all know that nothing new man has done that doesn't exist in nature. So all our inventions already exist in nature or even better man has come to many scientific achievements by imitating nature or himself. If we look at the 1st Industrial Revolution, the 2nd Industrial Revolution, then here's cybernetics, later robotics, and our happiness, or the sadness of artificial intelligence that hasn't yet come to life. The scientific reasons for introducing the national day of Nikola Tesla should not be specifically discussed we all agreed on, there is another reason, I will try to express myself in a picturesquely calm manner, and that is not to correct the injustice committed by the destruction of the monument or in such a way that one of the local powerful men remembered and forced the school board to lift the former name of the school of Nikola Tesla, but certainly there will be a message, a message to the young generations who come to remember the new giant. And finally, here, a colleague in the previous debate spoke and said that projects are being helped, not a bad idea, nor a fellow member of Mesic about the fund to assist projects that would provide the name of a great scientist to allow young people to go the way he was going, which is not particularly easy. And finally just say that I support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76546	Thank you. On behalf of my colleague, Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76547	Here I would thank everyone who participated in this debate today and who supported this initiative in the end, and I look forward to this year for the first time this year to mark Nikola Tesla's 10th national day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76548	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76549	Proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Nikola Tesla. The debate on the text of the decision is over. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Please, the applicants, Mirela Holy, Damir Kajin, Davor Bernardić, who will plead? Here you go. About the amendment, yes, go. An amendment, just one, the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76550	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76551	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final decision. I'm voting on a motion for a decision to state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed decision was taken unanimously, with 107 votes, in the text proposed by the applicants, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76552	We continue with: - Proposal for a decision on a spatial plan for the area of special features of Plitvice Lake National Park. The proposer of the decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this Decision. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You've received reports. With us, Minister Anka Dark Taritash is with his associate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76553	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament of Croatia. The final proposal for a spatial plan of Plitvice Lakes National Park is ahead. It is a national park that was thus declared in '49, so our oldest national park, since '79, has been included on UNESCO's World Heritage List. It is a park whose spatial coverage is 26 thousand 600 hectares according to the way it was defined at the time when the borders of Plitvice Lakes National Park were corrected, but the GIZ diameter established a real area, which is 29 thousand 70 hectares. It is a national park in the area of two counties, mainly in the area of Ličko-Senjska, and a small part in the area of Karlovac County and in its area is now located 20 independent settlements. According to the latest census, there are 1411 people living there, in other words 4,75 residents per square mile. What is convenient to know when the first census was in the area of today’s national park was then about a hundred years ago there lived 6 thousand inhabitants, so we talk about what was happening in demographics in the area. The spatial plan was for the first time in the public debate in 2011, the public debate was repeated in 2012, the repeat public debate in 2013 and after the second repeat public debate was a document complex, obtained all the consent needed in the process and here before this respected House was delivered for adoption. What is important to say is that the Spacious Plan of Plitvice Lakes National Park was first adopted in 1986, so after 1986, we bring it back. Compared to this proposal, construction areas have been reduced from 400 hectares to 245 hectares, settlements in which no development is planned and which do not have a specific building area are defined, and these are areas where existing buildings are held and only existing useful buildings are allowed for personal use and reconstruction for park needs. So these are relative to the possibility and building the strictest. Then we have villages where limited development is planned within a particular, specific construction area where reconstruction of existing and construction of replacement buildings, construction of auxiliary buildings, reconstruction and construction of a new infrastructure network is allowed. Then we have a settlement that is planned for further development in which certain construction and construction areas are built and not built and the construction areas whose exclusive purpose is in the function of the national park. When it comes to the zone from the aspect of nature protection, then we have three zones and of these three zones we have a strict protection zone that has two subareas, for those of the strictest protection zone, zone 2 which is an active protection zone, that means the area of active protection of grasslands and the zone of active forest protection. And zone 3, areas of use, these are areas of use of settlement zone, recreation zone and tourist infrastructure. It's detailed in... shown where the zone is concerned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now if you allow me a few words that may not be common when it comes to thematics but may also show the whole problem related to the Plitvice Lakes National Park, i.e. with a spatial plan. So at the architecture study the second hour of study on the subject of spatial planning, the teaching professor, which I remembered very, very much, and I often think about it, says that spatial planning of topics, or activity, is an activity in which you try to reconcile the interests of all the users of space. And really spatial planning it is. In spatial planning, it must be seen what interests are in relation to protection, which are interests in relation to use and any spatial plan must have elements and conditions under which a particular space should be used and can be used. This spatial plan, therefore our most valuable part, is the spatial plan of the national park indeed shows what we are talking about and this sensitivity that on the one hand and the space of the national park as the largest category of protection of the sea from the aspect of all elements really needs to be taken care of but certain conditions of use must also be made possible. The reason is that, here and there was a public debate in 2011, 2012, 2013 always a conflict of certain interests. We tried together with all the experts who deal with this problem to come up with a plan that would be the best way, with the best possible measure really what I said and said that in a certain way satisfys the interests of all who work in that space, act, take care of it. When it comes to the spatial plan of the Plitvice Lakes National Park and the spatially planned proposals, then there is a very important role and a very important fact in all of this is infrastructure. What we know and what we've been talking about for many years is an inadequate infrastructure in which I think first of all about the water network and the drain. Today's disposal solutions in the Plitvice Lakes National Park do not meet any basic standards that should also apply in areas that are not as valuable as this space. So this spatial plan is very detailed and very clear about solving the reconstruction, partly existing, but what is important about building a new infrastructure. This is primarily about the water network, the drain system. But something that is extremely important and important is also the problem of road infrastructure. If I may remind you of the construction of the highway as today's state road D-1 goes through the area of Plitvice Lakes National Park. At that time, it was a large quantity of vehicles that were going and which, of course, must have left behind a trail in the Plitvice Lakes area. Today, in the summer months when the highway works, the average of 9600 vehicles passing through and in the winter months 5500 are marked. So, continuous area of Plitvice Lakes National Park passes 5500 vehicles a day, which is certainly not good compared to what Plitvice Lakes National Park means. A long and long time ago reconstruction was proposed, i.e. the route of derailment of the D-1 state road. A little bit stopped because the highway solved some kind of peaks, or key traffic problem. But still 5500 vehicles pass through Plitvice Lakes National Park. What is more important and important is traffic in peace. Today's solution is that all those who come to visit Plitvice Lakes. They park making their own cars, making buses in the area of the national park. This spatial plan provides for a solution where parking would be beyond the borders of the national park and then to certain eco-vehicles that we know tourists would switch to the area of the national park. Yeah, well, I'm gonna go sort of finish off and figure it out. With this spatial plan, the existing construction areas now have 400 hectares reduced to 245 hectares. This proposal for a spatial plan appropriately defines infrastructure, primarily sensitive water supply and disposal infrastructure, and also defines how infrastructure is resolved in relation to normal transport and standstill transport in such a way that only the territory of the national park is disposed of. What is important to stress further, the comments that were eventually made in the second repeat public debate were 65 submissions of which 154 observations were accepted in part, 26.5 of which were accepted, for the rest an interpretation was given and 40 of the comments were not accepted. And through these remarks you actually see that trying, balancing interest and equating the interests of all the users of this space. On the one hand, there were comments that required an increase in construction areas, and on the other hand about the same amount of comments that were from the point of view that some parts might still need to be protected even more strongly. With this proposal of a spatial plan, we have tried to really balance all interests of all users and such a proposal is before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76554	Thank you, Minister. We have two replicas. Mirela Holly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76555	Dear Minister, I would ask you to answer the question because it is not clear to me in Article 40 of this decision whether this retention of existing buildings in the area of Plitvice Lakes National Park implies keeping in the space of those objects that were built by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76556	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76557	Thank you very much. When it comes to the area of Plitvice Lakes National Park, by law which allows for the retention of illegally built buildings and when it comes to other spaces, they could have obtained a solution to the state of performance if they are located in an area defined by the spatial plan as building. In the area of the Spacious Plan of Plitvice Lakes, it was not possible and could not be based on a valid law to obtain not one single solution for retention, but in terms of existing only what was made until '68. based on building permits. In other words, all that was wrongly done where the strictest protection can only exist, so on February 15th, '68. building permit, and in other areas where it is otherwise possible to get permission if there is an illegal building, and we know it is, if they meet the criteria set out in this plan then they can get a normal permit, but a building permit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76558	Thank you. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76559	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, the State Institute for Nature Protection has given quite a sharp assessment of the plan itself and considers it in one good part and in the proposed form unacceptable. The public institution of Plitvice Lakes also made some 50 remarks, of which a very small number was adopted and this has also created certain dissatisfactions and criticisms with them. The complaint is that the plan is not in line with the hydrogeological study that was made in 2008 and that the construction of new facilities in the zone A2 settlements is banned, so I would like to ask you to comment on that. I would also ask you if UNESCO's office has been contacted and if they are familiar with this plan that we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76560	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76561	When it comes to consent, consent to this plan from the aspect of the protection of cultural heritage should be given by a resolute ministry, the Ministry of Culture Protection which has done so, and from the aspect of the protection of natural heritage, i.e. from the protection of the basis of the Nature Protection Act, we have the consent of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature. In order for this agreement to be issued, it has been contacted and there have been further expert discussions with the office you mention. So the institute is only in the planning process, and the final agreement is given by a forwarding ministry. The Bureau also belongs to this resolution ministry, we have agreement. As regards UNESCO, it was not necessary to contact with regard to our regulation, but from this point of view, we have the consent of the Ministry of Culture Protection, and everything from the point of view of UNESCO and in their jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76562	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Here's my colleague Ronko, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76563	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished minister with a co-worker. At the 30th session held on 12 March 2014, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Decision on the Spatial Plan of the area of special features of Plitvice Lakes National Park. In accordance with Article 93 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the home working body. The introduction pointed out that the spatial plan of the area of specific features of Plitvice Lakes National Park covered the area within the laws of established parks of 26 600 hectares, that this plan covers most of the area of Ličko-senjska and smaller part of the Karlova County, that there are 1411 persons living in the area according to the 2011 census, the average population density of 4.75 inhabitants per km2 with a tendency to fall further. It is also stressed that the tourist concept is subordinated to the protection of natural values, without the possibility of building new tourist facilities, but that their accommodation is planned beyond the park's borders and that, as a result of better compliance with its scientific and educational role on the principle of sustainable development, new presentations, promotions and design of the park's visitation system and in particular, a new transport organisation with the entry zone and parking lot is being established, transit traffic to a bypass that would take place on the eastern edge of the park, and the centre area of the lake would be free of traffic. In the final part of the debate, with the praise of the text of the draft decision on the adoption of the Plan for the specific feature of Plitvice Lakes National Park, it was also noted that the work on this plan has taken a very long time, so that the criteria for declaring this area a world natural and cultural heritage according to which this area of exceptional natural beauty and aesthetic importance is valorised and thus, in accordance with the Convention on the Protection of Nature and World Cultural Heritage, to ensure and preserve space according to that criterion. In addition, the debate sets out substantive remarks such as to include the area as included in the list of world natural and cultural heritage, the issue of maintenance, i.e. the problem of maintaining grasslands with pasture or skin, the problem of visitors' tourism, as well as the observations of the nomotechnical nature referred to the applicant. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority vote 8 for, 1 against proposing a decision to the Croatian Parliament on the spatial plan of the area of special features of Plitvice Lakes National Park. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76564	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of SDP Representatives Club Josip Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76565	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honors Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is if I am not mistaken after seven years of working ahead of us is the Plitvice Implementation Plan, and here on this side here I express the satisfaction of finally meeting with the Assembly's representatives. Right here, I must say, the Minister has brought us into the story of the spatial arrangement of the plan. I would look back a little bit on another part to see some financial indicators right at the beginning, so I will return to the implementation plan to see what the meanings of Plitvice are for these two counties, for these four municipalities, for the Republic of Croatia and since we have UNESCO's stamp also has some meaning for the world. So in 2014, 834 employees worked in Plitvice, 224 million 808 thousand total revenue, 175 million kuna of expenditure making more revenue than 49 million. In 2014 it was planned and I believe that it will come true, it planned 231 million kunas of revenue, 180 million expenditures to tell me the costs. So the surplus is going to be about 50 million. In 2013 and in 2014 it was approximately visited in 2013 and we hope for that visit and in 2014 there will be a million hundred thousand people visited Plitvice and so many tickets have been sold. If we're counting on another 10% going in like this, it means about a million 200, million 300 thousand people visiting Plitvice annually. It can happen in the so-called. Picks, seven, eight and nine months to get up to 13,000 people a day through Plitvice. A little bit about the nights. In four hotels 242,000 and 500 nights were reached, and in two car camps 114 thousand 200 overnights, with one observation here that the usability of hotel facilities is 50% and autocamps 30%. I've only got these figures to show that it's a public institution, actually a park that achieves very high rates and economics and profitability and liquidity. We can say, like, healthy peasants, that the park carries itself. Because if you're incomeing 90 million kuna from tickets, and 70 million are our employee costs, then you know about how the park operates. I mentioned this in the introduction that you see the meaning of Plitvice for let's say this if nothing normal and for the whole of Croatia, and especially for Lika-Senj County where most of the area of the national park is located. And as such, Plitvices are and will also represent the economic stopper of the development of that part of Croatia. Now let's go back a little bit, so let's just get to the spatial plan. So the concept of the plan itself rests on three dominant topics. It means the relationship to natural values, the attitude to the population and settlements and this third part of the relationship to agriculture, livestock, crafts and infrastructure. What especially pleases me, and I think it will be crystallized here and in the debate, that the fundamental concept of the development of certain items of this plan is very clear and what surprises me is that so-called. radical developmental attitudes. What does that mean? That means who went wherever possible to go to maximum protection and conservation of nature. So, always the priority was the basic purpose of the park. So, regardless of this part, we learned that there are millions of people coming here, both to profitability and to economics, it wasn't the idea of a leader of a public institution or the basic purpose of a park. In the plan itself, let's say we can do a little bit about the plan. In Article 35, you have a list of cultural goods and other cultural and historical elements in which the relevant status has been confirmed. This is where the categorization was done, and we have exactly the degree of protection listed what is of national importance, what is of regional importance, what is of local importance. These are cultural landscapes, historical settlements of rural features, civil buildings of public purpose, sacral buildings, memorial heritage, historical cemetery, ethnological heritage, traditional economic buildings,... archaeological heritage, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The substance of this plan is actually articles 36 to 103. There are defined areas of settlements and construction areas outside the settlement in the function of national park management. The Minister has informed us that the park actually has an area of 29 thousand hectares. When these 250 hectares that are conditioned to allow construction, conditionally speaking, put it in a relationship, we now come to a single figure that only 0.98 means not even 1% of the park is intended for any possible construction under some strict conditions. So that's the part that we said at the beginning that you actually see these radical developmental attitudes. The article 40, which is already mentioned here, mentions the categorization of the settlement. So all of it, but all of the settlements are taxed. There are 20 of them and they are divided into zones A1, A2, B and C depending on the degree of conservation, or parts of which are going to work, or something will not work and which can be developed in certain parts of the park. So, what can we build, rebuild, and for what purpose? Is it going to be an apartment, is it going to be a agricultural economic building, is it going to be a catering and tourist facility, is that how we're going to develop the crafts? Also, in this section I consider the most important and important value of this... It is precisely that definition of the conditions of change or re-use of space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The size of the plots and buildings on them, so the plot is defined on a thousand squares and there can only be built 120 meters of square floor area of some buildings, which I say again only 12% of the total area available. Also, in that section are defined as saying again in these areas which materials must be used, but regardless of the area and whether you are doing a house, an economic building or something in connection with catering and tourist facilities must be respected natural materials, it is mandatory to monitor the protection of nature, i.e. the conservation department is very actively involved. We also have to invest here in one part of Plitvice, in the settlements we have, we have to make the maximum effort to repair the situation. Some houses were built after the Homeland War, and they are not respected either those minimum demands I say are very rigorous here. What's going to happen to those houses? I don't think the minister has responded in part, so I'd rather not talk about it anymore. I say, I am particularly pleased with the mandatory demand for consent of the conservation agency especially in the most protected part of the park. Because such an approach to the definition of space and possible construction procedures gives us a powerful tool to prevent any interventions that would be incompatible with the basic function of the park especially in part of nature and the environment. Especially good, or when we talk about projects, you never have the best solution. The best solution doesn't exist. I've seen it many times. There's an optimal solution that unfortunately has to satisfy all sides, and that's impossible. But I'm saying, this PUP has always been asked to do that and there's an optimal solution for everything. I therefore assess the proposed conditions for the development of infrastructure systems, such as transport system, telecommunications and mail system, water supply and disposal and energy system. The Minister mentioned it, I will repeat it, because I think it is actually cancer-earth of Plitvice Lakes National Park, which is a water supply system or a system of disposal of particularly fecal waters that I say at this point repeat cancer-earth Plitvice. The technical solutions currently used in the wastewater protection system, septic caves, i.e. I do not know if there are at all smaller, which smaller collectors certainly do not satisfy the basic function of nature protection and represent a limiting factor in the further development of certain parts of the parks. And it must be dealt with in the next period, immediately. Unfortunately, we now have a situation that if there are septic caves that are not made by the rules, in some parts of Plitvica water is drawn from the stream or from the lake. I'm saying it's cancer, and here's the minister who warned her about it. As far as I know, the Park Administration is working intensively on this especially in the part of the water supply, so making a permanent solution to the problem of water supply in the park. Unless the water supply drain problem is solved, there are no new buildings or shops within the park. At least according to this PUP, and that's the way it's supposed to be. In the part where the conditions for the development of economic activities are prescribed, Articles 113 to 116, it is commendable to the decision not to allow the construction of new accommodation facilities in hotels. So what was found was found. There can only be minor procedures in terms of internal arrangements and modernisation of the hotel's work. So, there is a clear and unequivocal message that every further construction of the park moves outside the park's borders and sends a strong message to further prevent the spread of construction operations within the park, and yet again everything to preserve decent standards in the protection of nature. So here's why the SDP club will support this proposal. So, the plan is comprehensive and extremely precise in that basic purpose, which is the definition of the space of the national park and the follow-up to it. And what is most important and long awaited from these above parts of the plan is that it is a good strategic basis for further thinking about and how to run a park, i.e. a public institution, and I hope that this document will form a new strategic management plan in order to further protect the maintenance and promotion of Plitvice Lakes National Park in order to protect the plant and animal world, habitats, eco-systems, geological, geomorphological forms of water, soil, landscapes, cultural values and other sights in the national park that deserve to have a global phenomenon protected by UNESCO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76566	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of DC and minority Vesna Škara Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76567	Dear Vice President, Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, the debate of our club will be slightly different from the previous one. The national park, the history of the proposal for a spatial plan of Plitvice Lakes National Park, dates back to 79 when the national park was included in the UNESCO World Heritage List. Three criteria were according to which Plitvice Lakes were included on the World Heritage List. The first is a superlative natural phenomenon or exceptional natural beauty. Other prominent examples, which represent important stages of the country's history, mean not geological processes or significant relief features and third prominent examples that represent significant ecological or biological processes in the development of water and land eco-systems. It is therefore an exceptional natural value which the public institution as the manager of the national park, therefore the manager of the protected area in accordance with the Nature Protection Act is obliged to keep in its primary and intact form. The minister has already said that the park area is 296km and mainly covers a stream of lakes. It is important to note that since October 2013 the entire park is within Nature 2000. When we look at these contractual relations related to the design of the plan on 17 June 2005, it was agreed to create a spatial plan for the area of special features of the national park. The value of the contracted works was 880,000 kuna and the contractors were the county with the contractor. On 18 July 2005, another agreement was signed on co-financing of the spatial plan for the area of the special feature of the national park again between the county, the value of the contract was 880 thousand kuna, 19th and in April 2006, was agreed on the development of a conservation study with a system of protection measures and the revitalisation of cultural heritage for the spatial plan of the area of special features of the national park and then the study was agreed between Lika-Senj County and the Ministry of Culture. The value of the contract was 205,000 kuna and the study was never completed. On 10 April 2007, co-financing of spatial planning documentation was agreed between the county and the national park, the value of the contract was 500 thousand kuna. On December 12th 2007, it was agreed to produce a study, an analysis of the existing state of construction and a proposal for construction areas, a settlement within the borders of the national park, the value of the contract of 190 thousand kuna. On 15 January 2009, co-financed the development of professional analytical businesses for the spatial plan of the area of special features of the national park, the value of the contract is 400 thousand kuna. On 29 June 2009, an annex to the contract on the development of a spatial plan for the area of the special feature of the national park was signed, the value of the contract is 445 thousand kuna, and now that it is looked at other than these contracts and the study in question and the main study strategy as the basis of the development of a spatial plan is the professional basis for nature protection for the spatial plan of the area of specific characteristics, so Plitvice Lakes National Park, which was developed in 2008, by the National Institute for Nature Protection. And now that the professional background on page 49 is slightly analyzed, the settlements and their possible influences on the stream of lakes are described. On page 50, clear and unequivocal orientations are given for the design of the management plan and when you look at the 7-10 points, then you can see that in the hydrogeological, most sensitive area of the Plitvice Lakes Basin it is recommended not to expand construction areas beyond the existing construction area because it is practically 80% of the national park. Another recommendation is not to expand the construction areas of Rudanovac and Vrelo Koreničko to the area of Ilirsko... Mediterranean meadows, river valleys due to the high biological value of habitats and the presence of plant species threat. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The third recommendation, with adequate compensation for land owners, is to try to invent Plitvice Leskovac settlement from the hydrogeological most sensitive areas of the national park. Furthermore, plan to move state roads outside the hydrogeological and biologically sensitive areas of the national park to burden the area of harassment of wild fauna and the risk of pollution of Plitvice Lakes source. In 2008, a comprehensive hydrogeological study on sustainable use and protection of water resources in Plitvice Lakes was completed. The study was developed by experts from the Faculty of Geotechnical Engineering in Varazdin and experts from Graz. From the beginning to the hundred pages in this study are described methods, areas and results of research. Of the 100-106 pages, general hazard features for Plitvice karst water nose are described from page 106-113, while on page 113 are summed up to describe which settlements pose a major danger to the flow of Plitvice lakes. The study has not been taken into account at all, and I have just asked the question of ministers. The State Institute for Nature Protection subsequently complements guidelines for the development of settlements and defines settlement areas in view of the possibility of development and one settlement without the possibility of development envisaged to shut down and without the possibility of building infrastructure, therefore, settlements in a direct lake basin. And two settlements that do not allow further development are only allowed to maintain reconstruction of objects in existing gauges. It is also recommended to build appropriate infrastructure. A settlement in the wide or on the edge of the lakes of the river. The settlements in which the development and construction of houses is permitted and the area of parking facilities is listed and despite these guidelines in the proposal for a spatial plan allow for construction in the bay especially in Plitvica is a village characterised as a settlement in the area of the highest risk for the shallow water carrier. In 2007, the Plitvice Lakes National Park Management Plan was adopted, which represents a binding strategic document that described the value and way of managing through action plans. And this document the performer of the plan practically ignored in some way. So, when you look at the sequence of events since 2005 the business of planned constructions from the ministry has been transferred to the county. Since 2007, when you look at and type in and take a look at these... particles and... particles, it is interesting that since 2007, the update of the portal, the geoportals.hr and the cadastra with cadastral data has ceased. In 2010, in the village of Plitvica, zero first pavilions with a dozen apartments and the main feature of construction is the reconstruction of existing facilities, according to maximum construction. So the buildings under that maximum construction of 50 square meters were built up to 300 square meters. But I think it's practically one of these nice subtle manipulations. The waterway conditions prescribe the merger of existing water lines. The water line is powered from the spring of the Plitvice stream which has a small flow in the season and according to this and low water, while it should... famous waterfall Great waterfall. Absurd is designed to the extent that practically where houses were invented and confirmed by court witches despite the conservator's opinion that there was never an object on these particles, and later the confirmations of the projects on the particles where the objects before the Homeland War were removed. It's unfortunately our reality. Furthermore, in 2011, biologists of the national park recorded an increase in the amount of bacteria in the Plitvice flow. A year later, the first public debate took place on a proposal for a spatial plan, a state-run institute making remarks that the performer has ignored again. From 14th to 28th September 2012, a second public debate was held, when point 43 was looked at, in which answers were given to the observations of the State Nature Protection Institute in paragraphs 12 to 15, 24, 26 of the State... to protect nature requires compliance with the guidelines it issued, however, those remarks were rejected by the contractor. Furthermore, in paragraph 5, the State Institute warns of the fact that some of the particles were not built, although in cartographic depictions they are marked as built and that is the deception I was just talking about. However, these comments were also rejected. It is interesting to note that paragraph 21 requires the removal of the possibility of providing catering services, the observation is, of course, never accepted, but is allowed to open catering facilities throughout the entire area of the park. And so I could say a lot, so any construction that happens and happens is allowed by a spatial plan, but I'm afraid it will be, given that we entered Natura 2000 last year, that it will be subject to EU foam. It seems that this is about ignoring the commitments and that we may be able to do as the British did every day, when, practically, by the time they returned to Natura 2000, they had to pay the daily penals that amounted to thousands of euros. So our club will definitely not support this proposed plan because this plan turns the park into a... tourist destination with a serious breakdown of nature and as an exclusive source of income, which completely ignores all the principles of nature protection, laws and obligations of the EU related to Natura 2000 regulations and we think this plan should be stopped because it will also stop a kind of construction savage in the plum. We think it is necessary to carry out administrative surveillance, and given the inspection findings that are coming these days precisely because of water pollution in order to have a job and crime processing and the State's Attorney's Office and absolutely need to introduce a moratorium on the construction of the lake's drain to bring about a spatial plan, a new spatial plan or an improved spatial plan that will fully protect Plitvice Lakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76568	Thank you, too. We have one replica. Joseph Bencic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76569	Dear colleague, I don't really know where to start. This is all you're saying, and we can say about it, and specifically for the village of Plitvice, it's all done according to the old plan, this plan hasn't yet come into effect. If someone made 300 squares and didn't do this plan, this plan hasn't been implemented anywhere yet, so if this plan says now, you can make 100 squares maximum, and someone makes 300, and then we have someone to punish for it. I don't know why this plan is your fault that someone built a 300-square house. And a moment more, I'm here and I'll agree with you for your concern, but look, I'll do it again. Only 0.98% of the park is foreseen, which does not mean it will be built under the strict conservation criteria. Believe me, no one will be able to make an apartment in the village of Plitvice anymore because normally there are no conditions, no water supply system, there is no drain that the rainwaters, which is fecal, and according to the old plan that was at 400 hectares, this is at 250 hectares... I don't know why, I don't see any reason not to accept this plan from that base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76570	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76571	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I understand your surprise, but I don't know if you have all this documentation regarding both the first and second public debate read and studied, and looked at all those points that the designer of the plan refused. I now ask for the third time why the objections of the State Institute for Nature Protection have been rejected? That's, there's no answer, so far there's no answer. And the question is, why?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76572	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76573	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Minister. Here's the difference between a colleague who was in front of me and I'm going to have completely different approaches and maybe remove all those dilemmas and all those strangers. Because if the Croatian people and citizens of the Republic of Croatia have known the value over the centuries and preserved the value now with all possible knowledge and all possible follow-up I cannot believe that the profession, especially when it comes to spatial order, will not respond to all these challenges. I'm going to say a little bit in the introduction some basic data that might be interesting, and maybe if someone's watching us maybe learn something. The first mention of Plitvice Lakes is mentioned in 1777 when Dominik Vukasovic, a parishioner from Otočac, first mentioned the name Plitvice in literature. It is a lake system that is very sensitive to the general good in the interests of science, culture and economy, we need to preserve and protect it permanently and strictly. That's what people said before, so it's the 3rd century. Furthermore, it appeared for the first time as a temporary shelter in the Plitvice Lakes area in 1852. In 1862, the first hotel in Plitvice Lakes was built, and already in 1883, when the waist, as a profession, was not at such a level as environmental protection, but decided on a belt of forests surrounding lakes and springs, were separated and banned memories. So the people who were before us a hundred and forty years ago knew with certain measures to protect that space. Furthermore, in 08.04.1949, this world pearl has been declared a national park, and since 79, this park has been on UNESCO's World Heritage List. For what? Because over the past hundred and fifty years, it has been observed intensively and explored and kept space around Plitvice Lakes. The most famous Croatian botanist, academic professor Ivo Pevalek who killed the world public, announced to the Croatian public and best explored Plitvice Lakes. Plitvice lakes are scientifically valuable, explored for hundreds of years. Based on all this information that I have said, we as a people in the Republic of Croatia have a very high culture of space protection. What may also be important in observing and what Ms. Minister said at the outset, that this space should be viewed as having a relationship with people, with nature, with protection, so that we can obtain data that in 1857, 6000 people lived in the Plitvice Lakes area, 6000 people. If we look at the 2011 census, there are now 1411 residents living in that area and that are compared to the number that was before, although the area is much smaller now, it means several times less. What is also important in spatial planning and planning, we have data that only 4.75 inhabitants live in the Plitvice Lakes area of a square mile [4.75 km]. In the area of Ličko-Senjska County, 7 inhabitants live on one km square, in the Republic of Croatia 75 per km square, and in Europe 114. So here we're talking about a very poorly populated area and we at the club think that residents are not the problem that can cause this significant space to devastation. What is most important, which is this, which is this spatial plan in the best way and indicates and kills a preventive response, that the number of visitors is growing so that last year with paid tickets to Plitvice Lakes area over a million visitors came. This is a very significant figure, and precisely for these reasons, that the number of visitors to a particular zone is significantly limited and more locations are sought in Plitvice Lakes so that this space can be used properly and that killing is interesting for visitors. What is also important is always to speak at Plitvice Lakes, which is said by academic Pevalek, there are also lakes, water and forest, but that Plitvice Lakes are a unique and unrepeated jewel of world natural heritage. And there is no reason on such grounds to build further significant promotion of Plitvice Lakes. What is important to say is that Plitvice Lakes are a national park which is one of eight national parks in the Republic of Croatia and that Plitvice Lakes make up 16 larger and several smaller lakes, from large, small ones and to kill that it is the trough of the Koran River and with about 10 thousand years of age there was a deposit of saddles and that these spills occurred a beautiful natural phenomenon. What is also important is that Plitvice Lakes are on a significant road between the north and south and that it is located in two counties. In most areas, more than 90% is located in Lika-Senj County and in one part in Karlovac County. What is also important in these natural phenomena, which are very important for certain and editing of this spatial plan that Plitvice Lakes are located between Mali Kapela, Plješivica and that there are the highest peaks somewhere at about 1600m, and the lowest point of Plitvice Lakes is the Koran Bridge only about 330m, and the length between the highest and lowest point is 503m. What is also important, and is recognised by UNESCO experts for the protection of natural phenomena that since '79, Plitvice Lakes have found on the list of UNESCO World Natural Heritage and that this is also one very valuable data and that there is also a certain perspective that is tied up and with one part of the economy means tourism that Plitvice Lakes are used in such a way. What is also important in this spatial plan is that most of the Plitvice lakes are water surfaces, grassy areas and forests of food and beech which are also listed and which are marked by a special code when stored at Nature 2000. In Plitvice Lakes, this geographical location is very important, and normally given the geographical location there are also important climate characteristics that condition both biological and plant diversity. This procedure, which took place in the spirit of Croatian legislation, and although it has been many years since the first spatial plan, we believe that this was the last time in a much stricter, much more quality way to try to protect this area, and we in the club estimate that this spatial plan is very thorough, very precisely in the cadastrian particle, and not to say by the places exactly which content can be arranged. The plan sets out the long-term basis for editing, use and protection of the value of space and methods of visiting, objectives and concepts of space planning, basic organisation of space, protection and use. The concept of regulation refers to natural values, under 2nd attitude towards population and settlements, under 3rd attitude towards agriculture and livestock, crafts and infrastructure. All these three topics are explored in detail by a number of expert discussions and bring clear and very firm developmental attitudes. What is most important in natural values can be said that natural values are best protected by the less impact and presence of any construction and human activity. The attitude towards the population and settlements in the narrow part of the nature park 100 years ago lived 6 thousand inhabitants, and today in the park area which is 50% in the wider communities lives only 1400 inhabitants. The area of the park to the tourist expansion could be viewed in a different way, but given the expected increase and inflow of more visitors in passing, we estimate that it is entirely justified to resolve the entrances and bans of entering the national park in order to create a bypass for transit traffic. What is also important is that within the national park new capacities cannot be built. Only existing capacities can be reconstructed or improved, but never increased. What is most important is that this spatial plan accurately defined the strict protection zones under 1.a. the strictest protection, under b very strict protection, under 2. protection, active protection of lawns, active protection of forests, zone of settlement, zone of recreation of tourist infrastructure. What is also important to highlight in this spatial plan, which again in detail, almost identifies every problem, must be emphasized because it is said in Article 16 of the Nature Protection Act. These are measures to protect aquatic eco-systems, forest protection measures, measures to protect grass vegetation, landscape values and cultural historical heritage. The settlements mentioned in this spatial plan are also precisely defined in the areas that are classified in category a)1 which can be done in category a)2 in category b and category c. We believe that this spatial plan is designed studioically, that a quality debate has been conducted and that, based on the proposed observations, it is on a spatial plan. 65 submissions, 154 comments, 26 comments were accepted, 5 partly, 83 days were interpretations and 40 objections were not accepted. It's probably a question of conflict and personal interests. We believe in the Croatian People's Party club that such national goods should be permanently protected and permanently put into service so that all citizens can enjoy such beauty. If this spatial plan is implemented so strictly with firm definitions I believe in its success and further preservation of the Plitvice Lakes National Park, which deserves such a quality document that has been created on the knowledge of many professions from spatial planners, biologists, biographers and all others who care about such jewels, natural beauty being preserved and preserved for generations to come. The Croatian People's Party Club will certainly accept this spatial plan of the area of special features of Plitvice Lake National Park.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76574	We have one replica, Vesna Scare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76575	Dear colleague, mentioning personal interests, I'd almost say that there are some interests when practically no respect for the remarks of the State Nature Protection Office. I insist on that because according to Articles 59 and 70. The Nature Protection Act began the creation of a spatial plan, an organisation of space, a way, the use and arrangement of space protection in the national park, and this is arranged on the basis of a professional basis developed by the Nature Protection Department. The measures and conditions for the protection of nature and of professional bases are part of spatial order documents and relate to the prohibition or restriction of procedures in space which may endanger the protected natural value. The Institute has provided a zone of the park, an analysis of the settlement and guidelines for planning the use of space. He also gave new knowledge that they said this about the effects on the surface and underground waters of Plitvice Lakes, or through a hydrogeological study made in 2008. And according to it, the most vulnerable areas of the basin are defined and there is a risk for groundwater in the Plitvice Lakes Basin, a very high risk identified in the area of Kuselja, Sertic Poljana and the village of Plitvica. And now I'm asking again a question that you didn't even answer in your debate why the professional background in the design of the spatial plan was not fully respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76576	Thank you. A fellow Mandic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76577	Thank you very much, colleague Ozbolt. Mr. President, Madam Minister, they are not unusually special interests of certain structures or a certain number of inhabitants, and that is normal that they are interests. Now whether they're acceptable or not, that's another thing. What I would certainly say is that this spatial plan has passed the orderly procedure, that this spatial plan has accepted advice for the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, that this spatial plan was manifested by the Ministry of Environmental Protection because this is not a fruit, the whim of one person. So this spatial plan has passed so two discussions first, second and after all these discussions this spatial plan has been accepted. What you've pointed to, well that's one of the points that you point to in this spatial plan that the issue is water protection, the issue of draining, the issue of sewage, that surely all the factors have a significant impact on the quality and preservation of this space. And that's why it's proposed how it's handled. I don't see any other way. So this spatial plan is detailed. And what was before this spatial plan was another debate. I believe that this spatial plan has very well accepted both the population and the space and the nature and the economy and that I think that it has responded not only to its time but to the next 10 years for sure this spatial plan will be very active and current on the protection and preservation of space.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76578	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Milan Jurkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76579	Dear Vice President, Ms. Secretary with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This plan isn't great, this plan isn't ideal, but it's a better plan than any plan. The last plan that was adopted for the area of Plitvice Lakes National Park was adopted back in '86. the years of the last century. But how they all started with some data and that I did a little bit with some poetic figures about a national park. So every season on Plitvice Lakes tells its story, some colors, sounds, waterfalls, scents, silences, simply told by life. This Proposal for a Decision on the Spatial Plan of the area of special features of Plitvice Lakes National Park has the task of keeping and continuing this story that has been told for centuries and centuries on this one of the most beautiful corners on the globe. The story of the oldest, largest, most visited Croatian national park, which was declared by predecessors on April 8, 1949, so in a few days 65 years, while the first serious beginnings of tourism in Plitvices began, said counterpart Mandic 151 years ago. The unrepeated natural pearl of exceptional beauty of lakes and waterfalls, flora and fauna is also recognized by UNESCO and 1979 by the park was declared the world's natural heritage among the first in the world. The proposal, which is with us and here with Madam Minister, we do not fully agree, has been working with the first phase since 2002, so from the term of office of Minister Dropulic, over the term of office of colleague Bačić, former Minister Branko Bačić, and here thanks to you today he is ahead of us and it is good that he is finally ahead of us because of '86. In the area of Plitvice Lakes National Park, the borders were changed, the Homeland War was fought, the first victim in the Homeland War fell, destroyed and natural but also material goods. And all of this was reconstructed and restored, and thanks to God, it was well restored according to the 1986 plan. This document was held at a professional debate in 2005, and the citizens responded for the first time in June 2011 when it was the first public debate, so I think it is too late to involve the public in making such an important document because it is not only parliamentary representatives or the Government of the Republic of Croatia interested in drawing up this proposal of a spatial plan but primarily residents of this region and of one and other county, regardless of the area of the park mostly in Ličko-Senj County. Due to the frequent changes in the law and to the waiting for the preparation of the professional bases prescribed by the regulation after the completion of the individual phases of the plan, a further public debate was held in September 2012 and a second public debate in October 2013. I believe that after a public debate, it would be useful for all institutions to give criteria and prescribe the method of processing of objections and therefore to have complex results. If a part of the objections and changes related to the construction area are accepted, must public debate be repeated? It's logical that you do. The public debate in my opinion should be repeated in the event that the proposed building areas are abolished as positive responses are not sent to the parties but only negative and negative with an explanation. The public debate is repeated only for those changes that have taken place in the plan if we have removed something from it on the basis of the objections, so those affected in this way have the opportunity to react to the protection of their interests and make an observation and only this is being debated. This debate can be much shorter. Whether the debate is repeated when the boundaries of the construction area change, or if it spreads to the benefit of the citizens, and it is obvious that there should be an answer to the comments, and then to see whether the public debate should be repeated, or if we went to the harm of those who have certain rights, then we will repeat the public debate. There were obviously no country development plans related to this area, which would reflect on the population. A professional basis for nature protection has been prepared from the competent state institution as a document to be respected in the plan, and in the area of the national park living people and the professional basis cannot solve their problems. So far, citizens have been able to get permission to build according to the old plan and a bunch of requirements have been resolved and so far it has not been able to stop construction in any way. The current construction area under this plan has been reduced by 1/3, which is much more favourable than the 1986 plan, so from the point of view of protection. And if we look at the principle of protection, then all those who prefer protection can be satisfied. And I'm one of the ones who prefers protection, so we understand each other. But the question is how many people are justified or unjustly damaged by the abolition of certain construction areas. We need to consider two cases, and these are if someone got a building permit and started construction on the basis of an old or still valid plan he has to exercise his rights, and if someone bought a building plot, and now it won't be under the new construction plan, whether the national park should decompose it. People keep 20 years of land for construction and it's like some kind of savings. And it should respect the team more every 15 years, and I hope we no longer amnesty of lawless construction. I hope we don't do this particularly in protected areas. There are third types of people on Plitvices, which is that people had to go to some other places until the Homeland War and when the war stopped them. However, we agree that we all believe in this council hall, this High House, that the main one is not to compromise the basic phenomenon, that it must not be the point of worsening the situation in the area of Plitvice Lakes National Park and that, in my opinion, this plan that I repeat is not excellent, it is not even great, that it can be dealt with in some way. And whether in a particular construction zone and in the very description of the motion for a decision from the debate of your colleagues, you have seen that 1000 and some people live in the area of the national park, 4 and something per square kilometre, in the area of the County of Lika-Senjska 7 per square kilometre, and I am not sure that this number of inhabitants can endanger the survival of nature. But certainly I am, although this plan is not resolved and cannot be solved, but it provides a good opportunity to solve the disposal and what is an extremely big problem for you, Madam Minister, you know, to solve the drain problem, but also to solve the water supply problem. All plans can be changed. When you see his good and bad sides through additions and changes, you can remove any shortcomings that will likely happen with this plan, and the shorter and simpler the process. I know there's no significant change in the parliamentary procedure, so I would suggest only two additions and please follow them. About the construction areas of the settlement. Therefore, all category B settlements are allowed to share construction plots with the fact that the newly formed plot cannot be less than 100 m2. Therefore, for all category B settlements other than this possibility is not foreseen for Rudanovac. I don't know if it's a tipfeller or if there's a particular explanation why it's like that. I therefore propose that the article 86 contains an item that reads: "Inside the construction area of the settlement is allowed to share construction plots in such a way that the newly formed plot cannot be less than 1000 square metres, but the built plot after the division can be taken up to a maximum of 12%. Therefore, as it stands for Vrelo Koreničko and all categories B settlements. I further believe that the existing infrastructure, especially the transport-related infrastructure, should be repaired and re-arranged in order to minimise the underlying phenomenon, so I suggest that in Chapter VI. the conditions for the development of infrastructure systems in Article 105 of the implementing provisions introduces an item that reads: "Outside the construction area, the construction of the bypass road Poljanak – Plitvica – the village of Bigina Poljana is permitted to move the existing road west of the big waterfall. In view of the sensitivity of the area for that road, a study on environmental impact is prescribed with special conditions of the Ministry of Environment and Nature, Nature Protection and Ministry of Culture, or a competent conservation department. In fact, the existing road is close to above the big waterfall and endangers it significantly, so I believe that the spatial plan should have solved the problem as well. You've touched two major problems with a spatial plan. I am glad that the mentioned villa Source or below called Tito's villa devastated in the Homeland War is a beautiful object which is a pity that it fails to get this spatial plan its purpose. This Proposal for a Decision on a spatial plan cannot and is not the document that solves economic development not only of Plitvice Lakes and not only of these two counties, but of good and neighbouring counties. Unfortunately, whether there was no will from the director, whether the Public Procurement Act was a cover, but I remember until the Homeland War that the agriculture of neighbouring municipalities, then agricultural production was located on tables or the national park market. Today it's goods from other areas. And in conclusion, the plan isn't great but it's better than it's gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76580	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Hansel Mandic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76581	Dear fellow, you have touched the questions of the spatial plan in part of your debate. At one point you questioned whether we would preserve and protect space. I'm just going to point out that part of the debate that I've mentioned that over the past 150 years science, profession, various professions have been watching, recording and controlling the situation in this national park. And I think that's a good thing, if generations before us were able to control and preserve and preserve, and I believe that with the technique and technology that we have today, it will certainly be much more quality. What I also agree with you is that residents and goods or cattle cannot harm the park if they stick to these guidelines of this spatial plan. And I agree that this spatial plan, if we say there are mistakes, is certainly much better than the one it doesn't have. But I estimate that this spatial plan is very high-quality, very specialized and that almost in detail speaks of every space in which to protect itself. But I think it's also an interest to all of us, especially to the profession that regulates this very important space.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76582	Thank you. Answer, colleague Jurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76583	Thank you. Comrade Mandić, we agree that both of us are interested in protecting the park, keeping space is the primary goal. But it's also a goal, now it's a flossula you know to keep the number of people, you'd mock me, who live there because there are relatively few. But with respect, and today the profession and modern technology allow some things to be protected far more quality than decades ago, so when we talk about disposal and some other things, there is a possibility. But what this plan solves, I said he's not great, he's not great, but he's better than anything or better than before. He's in my opinion, as far as nature's protection is concerned, restrictive. As far as construction and construction areas are concerned, let us give the park a chance, so if some shortcomings are shown in the coming years, let this or the next Assembly's meeting change it at some points or segments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76584	Thank you. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76585	Thank you. My dear colleague, you said that an expert basis cannot solve people's problems, I agree. However, I think it is necessary to separate tourism from nature protection and nature protection cannot be the hostage of tourism and expansion of tourist facilities in the area of the national park. I think that tourist activity must be unconditionally in the function of nature protection. I'll remind you of the period when the national park was classified on the list of parks in danger. I hope it doesn't come to this, but this spatial plan absolutely needs to be aligned with the professional background that was just designed to create this spatial plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76586	Thank you. Answer, colleague Jurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76587	Dear colleagues can also agree with you in some things, only when we talk about protecting nature, about protecting Plitvice Lakes National Park believe that I love it so much and that I love it just as much as you do. So don't get me wrong, during the term of one minister when he came to Lika-Senjska County or it wasn't Lika-Senj County then, and there were all kinds of ministers, then he offered one solution to fill the air in Lica because the air was extremely high and healthy and that the Liccans could live from it. Unfortunately, from utopia and such proposals, you don't live. It is necessary to find the best possible measure between tourism and nature protection. And what I have advocated and as mayor for many years is for the national park to be the bearer of the development of the economy not only Lika-Senj County with maximum protection of nature, which is primarily the resolution of the drain, the resolution of the waterway, the resolution of the transport infrastructure, so what is well solved by this proposal of the plan. Two main breakthrough entrances to Camp Koran by moving traffic through the space of the national park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76588	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mirela Holly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76589	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about the Spacious Plan of the Plitvice Lakes National Park of our most famous world-renowned national park, the park located on UNESCO's list of protected natural heritage, we should firstly discuss the key problems facing this park, this area of exceptional natural value. And these problems are numerous and the park despite the huge revenues it generates on the basis of tourism stagnates, so I would also dare say that the basic phenomenon of the park, which is why it enjoys the status of the national park and is on UNESCO's list of protected natural heritage. The park's phenomenon is also threatened by the development of mass tourism within the park which is in direct contrast to the idea of sustainable tourism according to which this park should develop, and the situation in the park is the following: the park visits more than a million tourists each year, which represents an extremely high pressure on the park from the simple fact that the park is not managed in a sustainable way. The middle of the park passes a very frequent road which is not driven by eco-acceptable vehicles. In the park there is no sewerage and wastewater treatment system that endangers the basic phenomenon of the park, Lake Kozjak. Hotels and catering facilities in the park are not facilities managed according to sustainability criteria. The energy efficiency of these objects is sad. These objects are heated not on the biomass that is around them in abundance but on the mule. These facilities do not offer food and products that are locally produced and grown, thus helping the local population economically and working to raise a sustainable economy, but offering lambs from New Zealand and Australia. The park is not driven by hybrid vehicles, or God gives electric vehicles, but by SUVs who spend large amounts of fossil fuels. Waste is not managed, there is no primary selection and waste treatment system and even waste. In parallel with this, the money that this park is approaching is not spent on nature protection projects, which is why this park is declared a protected area, but this money continues to be spent unintentionally on projects that have absolutely nothing to do with nature protection. I've talked about it in the House on several occasions, but there seems to be absolutely no hearing about it. The research of basic natural phenomena and systematic inventory of species is not carried out. All of these elements should be kept in mind when we talk about this topic because the park's spatial plan is a fundamental strategic document that determines the long-term future development of the park. Whether we are going to solve the problems I was talking about depends on whether we will be able to keep this area in the status of national park and phenomenon on UNESCO's list in the future, so the key question is when we talk about this proposal is whether this spatial plan and its implementation will ensure sustainable development of the park that is not possible without solving this mix of municipal infrastructure problems, transport, waste, water supply and disposal of waste water and tourism. Unfortunately, after reading this proposal, it is my conclusion that it will not. And that is why I will not support the adoption of this spatial plan because I am extremely concerned that this document has not been given a green light from competent professional institutions, from the public institution of Plitvice Lake National Park and the State Nature Protection Institute, which is in charge at the end and for the implementation of the national strategy and action plan for the protection of biodiversity and landscape diversity, and this must be a fundamental objective aimed at developing protected areas. With this fact in mind, it is no surprise that this decision has caused great interest not only in the population around Plitvice but also in the wider work of the public primarily activists and activists. I remind you again that Plitvice Lakes are the only space within the Republic of Croatia that UNESCO has listed as the world's natural heritage. It is my impression that the creators of this plan did not lead to this fact because the motion for a decision does not mention this fact anywhere, which is quite unusual. In public, it is in the highest public interest that this space remains preserved to the extent that it should be on UNESCO's list if nothing else, then only because of the pragmatic tourist reason which the proposings were obviously highly motivated. If we are guided by this general public interest, then it is an extremely unusual approach to place emphasis primarily on commercial activities such as two new entrances to increase the capacity of park parking spaces and do not worry about road infrastructure and the need to move this frequency road outside the park framework, emphasising the ingested oil gas and other liquid fossil fuels as acceptable to the park. However, the main motive of this decision should be the sustainable development of the park, which allows for an increase in the number of inhabitants in this area by developing a sustainable local economy, with the parallel preservation of natural beauty and biodiversity in this area. It is an unusual decision to ban the breeding of a stream trout within the park, which allowed the reintroduction of the indigenous river trout in lakes and streams of the national park. The stream trout began to disappear at the end of 80 years from Plitvice Lakes and the stream, from the White and Black River, Rijeka, Plitvice, Sartuka, Čuić, Krčevina and the Korana River, so annual production started for the purposes of the national park between 30 and 40 tonnes of this trout. There is no doubt in the public interest that the implementation of an action plan for the return of a consumption trout into the waterways of shallow lakes, which implies a whole series of measures aimed not at the realisation of a canned trout that has other consequences, and this negative consequences on the environment, but as a scientific undertaking, the return of a endangered species to its natural habitat. Finally, I would like to stress that it is extremely important that Plitvice Lakes National Park has its own spatial plan as a fundamental document of the long-term sustainable development of this extremely celebrated in the international frameworks of the celebrated park, but there is no difference in how this spatial plan will look and in which it will focus the future development of this area regardless of some positive elements of this plan, and this is, among other things, a drastic reduction of the construction area compared to the 1986 plan, and the emphasis on the importance of pasture livestock farming as a way of preserving the diversity of pasture communities is indisputable, the fact that implementation of this spatial plan will nevertheless not lead to the sustainable development of the park and that this plan highlights the content of mass tourism, which is in direct contrast with the idea of sustainable development of the park. I believe that this document should be returned to further work, and this will ultimately bring this spatial plan into line with the National Strategy and the 2008 Action Plan for the Protection of Biological and Regional Varieties, which, according to the latest report, is realized in the very embarrassing 10%. I am afraid that this plan will have direct repercussions in terms of not implementing the Habitats Directive, or Nature 2000, and that includes paying for financial foames. And at the very end again, and at the very end, I'm sorry, I'm lost. I remind you that we will not be able to implement all these obligations unless we have a stable financial instrument for the implementation of nature protection policy and in this area, around or even more than 400 million kunas are turned around. Unfortunately, we are spending this money on projects that have absolutely nothing to do with nature protection and that have nothing to do with the realisation of the national strategy and the action plan for the protection of biodiversity and landscape diversity. The solution of course exists and this solution is called the National Park Agency, of which the government has unfortunately given up and thus continued a poor policy to protect the nature of all previous HDZ governments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76590	Thank you. We have one replica, Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76591	Dear colleague Holly, you, in your opening part of your debate, have touched the park management and is primarily referring to the administration that controls the national park, and here I agree that there are a lot of gaps and that this part of the park's administration can certainly be better intervened. But you further accepted their proposal not to agree with this spatial plan. Well, I'm not very good at it either, and the other one, they don't go together. As far as the highest interests are concerned, it can almost unreservedly be said that all fellow Members and colleagues in the Assembly agree that the most interest should be to preserve natural beauty, biodiversity, both plant and animal diversity, and that we should be maximumly restrictive. And this spatial plan is quite restrictive. As far as mass tourism is concerned, this spatial plan did not encourage it, but this spatial plan seeks to control the entrances and the passages and that at certain points, to retain a larger number, means that there is no verse because you cannot forbid someone, but you can control the entrances. I think this way the spatial plan well points out and what's most important is that this spatial plan is one, more zones inside the park are unaccessible to visitors, unacceptable means he's restrictive. And I mean, my view is that this spatial plan is very much taking care of the protection of the national park, the protection of diversity, and it's certainly a much better solution than what we've had so far, and that this spatial plan and especially the management of the park can go in the direction you've been talking about, the issue of fossil fuels, etc. But given the other sources of energy...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76592	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76593	...no cutting, no money, no fishing and the park is maximum protected, but in that part I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76594	Thank you. Answer. My colleagues, Holly, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76595	A respected colleague, in Plitvice Lakes National Park, worked by about 600 people, most of them work on service and tourist activities. About 20 people worked on nature protection jobs. And those twenty people, many of whom were biologists and the like, were those who wrote observations on a spatial basis. And believe me, they didn't have much support from the former management of the public institution of the national park, and we know what was going on and what was going on. So, I think it takes a lot to separate those who make expert remarks on these documents and which in the parks unfortunately a very small number, although I should be the largest number because they are actually defending themselves by protecting this phenomenon and education of people who are supposed to come to national parks and nature parks to learn something about natural values. So you need to distinguish what is an economic, economic park management from what are the professional capacities of some parks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76596	Thank you. And, finally, Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76597	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, and there have been several topics in the discussion, so I will refer to the main topics that have been discussed. On several occasions, the opinion of the National Institute for Nature Protection was drawn up, so if you allow me, I will only read the consent that I have before me, which is the consent of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature issued on 17 December 2013 and it is said: The Nature Protection Administration, the Ministry of Environment and Nature has been in line with the Nature Protection Act since the beginning of the process of developing a spatial plan for the area of special features of Plitvice Lake National Park. In accordance with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, representatives of the Nature Protection Administration participated in previous and public debates held in the framework of the draft plan process, and this administration made several remarks on several occasions during the various phases of the draft plan. The representatives of the Nature Protection Administration also actively participated in meetings with representatives of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, the Office for Spatial Planning and Authorised Planmaker, where the problems encountered during the construction of the plan were discussed and optimal solutions were jointly found which would be acceptable to users of the space of the national park from public institutions to permanent and occasional residents. Now there's a hologram when someone's who, what they wrote and delivered. Finally, the following, given that the Nature Protection Administration has been involved since the beginning in the process of developing a spatial plan for the area of specific characteristics of the Plitvice Lakes National Park, and that all comments, proposals and comments of the Nature Protection Administration have been adopted. We believe that the Ministry of Environment and Nature may, in accordance with Article 124. The Act on the Protection of Nature of NN from 2005 to 2011 and in conjunction with Article 248(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Act on the Protection of Nature 80/2014 to give prior consent to the draft final proposal for a spatial plan of the area of specific features of Plitvice Lake National Park. Indeed, as I was saying in the introduction this spatial plan is so Croatian said by the book example, which means in the process of spatial planning to try to reconcile all interests of the users of the space. Here there are interests that are beyond all interests, which is that we are talking about the Plitvice Lakes National Park, which is an absolute value beyond all values and that we are talking about the users of the residents of the permanent and occasional and visitors who come to that national park. When it comes to national parks then there are both scientific and professional several theories which national parks should be and what they are. There are theories that there should be no population in national parks, so national parks and national parks should be defined in a way that has no population, you have an example of several national parks in Australia and America. When we talk about the national parks of Europe, Europe has decided that people live in national parks. The experiences we have, we have that it is incomparable that there is a population that lives in that national park because it is much better for all other elements to protect. And when you look at national parks that are in Croatia only Brijuni have no permanent population but there are theories that Brijuni according to their own criteria as well as whether they are a national park or not. A decade ago, I was in an education when Plitvice Lakes was an example of what a national park means and what the spatial plan of the national park means. And then one respected colleague who had a long experience said, you know, a national park for every country is a window where that state shows the best it has. But we must take great care of how we treat that window. And what Mr. Jurkovic's former mayor said about the real economy of the entire surrounding area of the national park should be developed from that national park. And now to get to what's topic, the topic is the Space Plan of Plitvice Lake National Park. Today, right now, we have a space plan from '86. a spatial plan that has arisen in other conditions in another way in another consciousness than we have today. Tomorrow, a building permit can be issued for construction in a national park, and we are aware that it should not be issued, but it can be issued on the basis of a valid spatial plan. I really always say you should take care of the planning process and try to reconcile the interests of everyone. We don't have to strive to always be the best possible spatial plans, but we have to strive to make every next one better than it was before. This spatial plan that is here before you is certainly incomparably better than the one that is now in place. That's the '86 plan. For last, something that may not be common in this House but allow me this opportunity. As a student of architecture, I was a student service at a company or institute that then worked on a spatial plan of Plitvice Lakes National Park, which was adopted in '86. And since each profession has certain legends about what it means to do in the profession, so are the developed legends in that institute, which meant going to public debate at the time, and we are talking about public debates that were in the 1980s in the Plitvice Lakes National Park and when there were still more people than we have today, then the first stories that were told were about running away at night with public debates about fairies and developed to bears and wolves where spatial planners who tried to make certain things more restrictive than certain wishes that had to be avoided in the night by various means of transportation from the population of Zagreb, which was the maximum dissatisfaction with the solutions that had been proposed. Indeed, every spatial plan especially on this one sensitive space will be compared to some wishes I will not say more restrictive but restrictively in certain elements, this spatial plan when you compare it to the space plan of '86 is significantly, significantly stricter than it is in '86, and it is now in force. And when you're talking about some of the situations that are happening on Plitvice Lakes, they're the ones that can happen based on this spatial plan. This spatial plan, which is before you new, needs to be given an opportunity, but what needs to be done should also be done in Plitvice Lakes which financially, which each other build the necessary infrastructure in this primarily means the water network needed and what I primarily think about is the system of draining and the traffic that is going with Plitvice Lakes should be put outside the borders of Plitvice Lakes National Park. It is a prerequisite for all activities that continue to take place on Plitvice Lakes, but we also need to make sure that the population we live there gives frameworks that we can live because it is our interest to live in the area of the national park. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76598	Thank you, too, Your Honor. We've got one replica, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76599	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I'd just like to rephrase to you, which is where you read the statement of the Ministry of Environmental Protection based on the opinion of the Nature Protection Authority. It's a government that's not a state-run nature protection agency. The National Institute for Nature Protection is a special professional institution that produces different professional bases, deals at the end with drawing and including areas different in the scope of the Natura 2000 map and implements species inventory projects. And in this regard, the National Institute for Nature Protection is certainly a very, very professional institution that can tell whether a particular document that enters the parliamentary procedure is in line with what the obligations of the National Strategy and the Action Plan are in regional and biological diversity. And those requirements of the habitat directive, or those required by Natura 2000. And there's something else I'd like to mention. Of course, it is not a good conservative approach, or conservative approach, because sustainable development involves the co-existence of people in the very environment of parks. And finally, there was a far greater number of people living in the past in the park area, but it doesn't matter how these people live in that park, but at this point these people don't live well and live in a sustainable way because those products that they produce don't come as products offered to tourists in the park itself. And it's just that it's necessary to create a prerequisite for people living in the park environment to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76600	The reply to the replica of Honored Minister Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76601	In this second part, I think we absolutely agree and talk about the elements that come from this spatial plan to enable life and development which in the area of Plitvice Lakes National Park is surrounding. And as far as the department's jurisdiction is concerned, you and I know very well what part of the department is in charge. But we also know that after the Institute of Nature Protection and the Ministry of Environment and Nature, it gives final consent to what she did.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76602	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for discussion on this subject. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the motion for a decision when the conditions are met. Proposal for a decision on the establishment of a spatial plan of the area of special features of Plitvice Lake National Park. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that, by a majority of votes, 95 votes in favour and 12 votes against, a decision on the adoption of a spatial plan for the area of special features of the Plitvice Lake National Park was taken, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76605	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with the Decision of the Croatian Parliament on the establishment of the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme, the National Council was elected and established in this Assembly, in this composition on 11 July 2012. During that period from 11 July to 30 June 2013, which was taken as one date, around one year the Council held 7 regular and one thematic sessions. In which composition it worked I think it's too high to speak because it's listed in the report. The National Council proposed, with its first session, the government of the Republic of Croatia the need for accession to make amendments and additions to the 2008 Corruption Prevention Strategy and the revision of the 2010 Action Plan. The government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a proposal from the National Council and by Decision of 15 November 2012 adopted a new Action Plan with the Anti-Corruption Strategy. The regular meetings of the National Council also analysed and accepted reports by the holder of the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, hence reports by all those holders on the implementation of the measures provided for in the revised action plan. In particular, all ministries and various other state bodies and agencies were tasked in the revised action plan to implement certain measures and the National Council analysed at its meetings whether these individual ministries and holders of the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy had implemented those measures. I would now briefly say that by referring to the reports of individual holders of the Corruption Prevention Strategy such as the State Attorney's Report on the implementation of the anti-corruption measures discussed and where the National Council found that both the DORH and the USKOK had fully implemented the measures set out in the revised action plan. As the implementation of the measure relating to the analysis of the existing network of courts and state lawyers, the drafting of the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of State Lawyers and the assessment of spatial, human and other material assumptions for the application of the new Criminal Procedure Act. and the conduct of all received anonymous and signed applications that indicate the unlawful acquisition of the status and rights under the Law on the Rights of Croatian lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families, as well as the report on the measures implemented in the Action Plan in the Anti-corruption Strategy under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, the Ministry of Agriculture in the area of responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Defence where all relevant information relating to these reports has been provided in this written report. The full texts of all reports are on the National Council's website to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. The anti-corruption strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 19 June 2008 defines corruption as a harmful social phenomenon that violates fundamental values, and as a historical, psychological, sociological, economic, political and legal phenomenon. In the broadest sense, this is any abuse of public authority in order to achieve personal benefit. In a narrow sense, corruption can be defined as an act of illicit exchange between public officials in other persons in order to achieve personal benefit. This is any act that violates the morals and legal standards of the opposite public interest and confirms the foundations of the rule of law. Among the most important consequences of corruption is the loss of public trust in state authorities and public institutions, resulting in a negative impact on the economic development of society. Therefore, not only corruption but also the very suspicion of corruption and the impression of corruption question the credibility of each government. The National Council insists mainly when it comes to the involvement of high-level officials and politicians in improving efficiency in the detection, processing and conviction of corruption crimes because only this can improve the corruption perception index and prove that there is no untouchable in the fight against corruption in Croatia. The National Council addressed proposals and recommendations to the holders of measures under the Action Plan with the Corruption Prevention Strategy, proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia the accession of the amendment to the 2008 amendment of the 2008 Corruption Prevention Strategy. Continue the proactive approach to corruption and propose corrupt measures, carry out activities to raise awareness of the existence of corruption, its causes and dangers. And it can be concluded that, in the legislative framework, through the adoption of new and amendments and the addition of existing laws that regulate the issue of public procurement, concessions, conflicts of interest, financing of political parties, the right to access information, the Criminal Law, the Criminal Procedure Act, the judicial reform of the presumption of a more effective fight against corruption. In order to further improve the legislative and institutional framework, as well as the measures and implementation thereof, it is necessary to continuously revise the action plan once a year through monitoring and monitoring the implementation of the laws adopted. The suspicions of political pressure on police, the State's Attorney's Office and the judiciary in cases where there are doubts about the involvement of senior officials, reduce citizens' trust in the judiciary and make it more difficult for citizens to engage more strongly in the fight with corruption. It is therefore necessary to effectively implement all laws adopted in order to ensure an independent and judicial professional judiciary and police. The perception of citizens about corruption in Croatian society especially in the judiciary, all state bodies, politics, health care, higher education and sports points to the seriousness and need of an even stronger fight against corruption that is first seen in showing the strong political will of all authorities from local to national level, and immediately to the realization of strategies and action plans. Only visible results, the rightful condemnation and confiscation of the unlawful benefit will lead to a reduction in the negative perception of the public. In recent months, there has been an increase in investigations into a number of corruption affairs that have shown a lack of accountability and transparency of a number of state officials, officials, political parties institutions or companies. In the fight against corruption, transparency is the most effective prevention of corruption. Openness in... the possibility that the public has full insight into the work of some public institution, public procurement or employment is a defense of every corruption. But with transparency... necessary and knowledge and responsibility. In the context of recession, indifference and growth in unemployment, corruption risks are also growing, and it is necessary to show stronger political will and to strengthen all activities of all policyholders and action plan in order to prevent early detection and rapid processing of any corrupt behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76606	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm opening a debate on the report. We are going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the SDP representative's club and the respected representative Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76607	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy is a parliamentary control over the implementation of the strategy. In order for this parliamentary oversight to be constant and as objectively and as devoid of any policy as possible, the provisions of the Decision on the National Council also indicate. It sets out that the Council on its work reports twice a year and determines its composition according to which the president of the opposition, the vice-president of the majority, has two of the other three MPs from the opposition, and one from the majority. While most of the full composition of the councils are representatives of unions, employers, academic community representatives of NGOs dealing with the problem of corruption, experts and media representatives. Corruption is considered widespread in public and is not an excessively positive opinion on it. In addition to international polls, national research conducted by the Ministry of Justice prior to the revision of the 2012 Action Plan has also established this. According to the survey, public opinion sees corruption as a major problem especially among politicians, judges and public officials. All supervision of the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy is therefore extremely important, and one of the most important is this parliamentary supervision through the National Council. Is this a national council up to the end at the level of the task according to this report to respond to the above challenges? The SDP club thinks it isn't and that's why they won't support this report. Parliamentary oversight given to him by decision and which is extremely important and for our sakes, which I mean here on the state, and important for public perception. The public perception would be more positive if they saw that all segments of the state's government had been subjected to a systematic and constant fight against corruption. Not only the executive and judicial authority, but also the legislative one. Which through the adoption of laws that narrow down the maneuvering space for corrupt acts, which through monitoring the implementation of the strategy. The Council was established almost 2 years ago or in July 2012, and before us is the first report. According to the decision on the National Council, a report should be submitted twice a year to the Croatian Parliament. Which means that according to the decision made by this House, we should now discuss the third report on the implementation of the strategy, and now we are only on the first. This report has a working name Report on work for the period 11 July 2012 to 30 June 2013, which is actually a report on the work of the Council from 11 July to 31 December 2012 and not working throughout 2013. And that's why it's only the first report, not the third. This report is the result of virtual work and as such came to the plenary session. Was this report the subject of the debate at the council meeting? It's not. Each report, and this is also the kind of position of the body to be submitted and according to the decision on the national council and according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Opinions, can be taken by the majority of the votes of the members present at the session. This report was sent to their e-mail addresses by members of the National Council and was then forwarded only to the plenary session. The Council held 7 regular and 1 thematic sessions. All regular sessions were held between 11 July and 31 December 2012. No regular session was held in 2013. If the president had already felt that there was not enough material for regular sessions, although reality in this has denied us, there was certainly room for several thematic sessions and the thematic sessions the public turns to the very problem of corruption that is in society. For example, at the 4th session of October 18, 2012, so a full year and a half ago, during the debate on how the National Council works, there was also a proposal for 2 thematic sessions. One with a work title evaluation of the effects and analysis of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, which was held a year ago and one with a working name – the development of the economy and corruption that has not been maintained so far. As far as the content of the report is concerned, it is literally a copy-pass of the reports itself of the holder of the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. If we have on the Croatian Parliament's website in the integrated content of all these reports, I see no reason why we are being made by MPs for short copy-pass of these same reports. The Council members were not only active in discussions on each individual report but had concrete proposals to improve the transparency of work itself, which cannot be read in this report because each individual report had concrete proposals. Therefore, the SDP club believes that the work of this council and its supervision of the implementation of the strategy are extremely important. The campaign work that is visible in this report and which has not been adopted at a regular council session contributes neither to the importance of this task nor to the change of public perception. Because of everything, the SDP club won't support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76608	Thank you, too. The club of independent representatives or lists of independent and respected representatives Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin, they are not present in the Assembly Hall of Plenary Sessions, losing the right to debate as a club on this subject. It is up to the HDSSB Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here's my colleague Đurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76609	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. These two previous discussions were indeed necessary to recognise the interesting, each in my own way, I think that in any case this topic should be extended partly and beyond the work of the National Council itself to monitor the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy, in total to the problem of corruption, given that it is more or less, so I think that this is also some attitude of most of us here, most of the political parties that we represent that corruption is still open to the cancer of Croatian society and that Croatian society with or Croatian politics with several large arrests or with several large trials did not actually end the story with corruption in Croatia. When it comes to the work of the National Council itself, I must admit, we were not involved in it, and it is very difficult in a credible way if you were not involved in any of the conclusions on the work of that council itself. And when it comes to this report, there are some elements that are taxing, although I have also gotten the impression that perhaps the report itself did not get enough into the depth of some of the problems and some of the issues that concern corruption, but that it was more and more in the width of everything together. Some research has also been mentioned, and here it may be worth mentioning once again that the Transparency International corruption perception index, which is practically the most relevant some kind of non-governmental assessment of corruption involving 170 and some countries in the world, placed the Republic of Croatia 57th place by the perception of corruption, something better than in 2012 but more practically among the worst in the EU member states today or the worst among the EU member states today. Therefore, from such an external source, we can be sure that the story of corruption in Croatia is certainly not nearly finished and that if we did not live in Croatia and testify to the Croatian reality or if we did not witness everything that is actually happening in Croatia day to day to day to day to day with the newly discovered corruption affairs that, in the rules and unfortunately, always bind part of the political nomenclature to ourselves, as a rule at that time, the ruling political nomenclature. Transparency International also monitors the corruption control index and this corruption control index, which is moving to 57.4 and speaks about the extent to which public authorities are used in the private interest, this corruption control index is almost not changing or changing very little since 2003 and until 2012. It is a shift of less than 5% which may be even more worrying because, given some events, we have gained an impression or at least such perception that we in the country are somehow able to change some relationships and reduce the level of corruption of society. There is also this survey within the Ministry that has been mentioned. It is interesting that when you look at institutions that are actually state institutions or public institutions, then perception by institutions is actually the biggest in terms of corruption related to customs, judiciary and medical care, and the slightest perception of corruption by institutions, public institutions are related to schools and social care institutions. This was certainly contributed by some stricter laws and judgments, which would actually be good for more if possible in the future. But the perception of corruption in our country itself can be seen on many sides. If I see her as a citizen and, most often, try not as a person who participates in politics, then I often observe her in the part where I can observe. This is like a problem of employment, such as public sector employment, public institutions, public institutions. I think that the Republic of Croatia has one of the most common cases among countries, at least the EU, which is that, for example, in colleges, you have an immeasurably large number of professors who are professors today, and in hospitals you have an immeasurably large number of doctors who are doctors today, and in courts you have an immeasurably large number of judges whose parents were judges. .../The Intruder President: From Fishermen. And for example, in the SOI, you have an immeasurably large number of children whose parents were or are today state officials. Maybe in a way, as Mr. President says, "The Fisherman's Fisherman." But I don't think it's "The Fisherman" and that it's not crafts that inherit themselves, or that someone is born in the way someone did to him, but that it's actually the result of some models that actually have an apparent corrupt model of behavior or a pattern of behavior that ultimately leads to these phenomena for which we can all very explicitly present the data to which they are and where they are present. And that's disturbing. Not to mention public procurement, in the Republic of Croatia we reportedly put them under control, some state offices that allegedly surround it, which allegedly control it better, rationalise, standardise and prevent certain entities from having larger manoeuvres of corruption. But still, not only when it comes to state but local administration, public institutions and the like, we have a phenomenon that should not be too much mathematician to determine that if the price of building a square wall with a 400 kuna bill is in most of the reported transactions is 800 kuna, 1000 kuna or 1500 kuna "That something rots in the state of Denmark". Or that if one square of glazing is 75 kuna and that in most public affairs is 100,150 or 200 kuna, it is also "something rotten in the state of Denmark" or if they are supplied by vehicles in a way that accepts the most expensive offers for the needs of the State or specifically the Ministry of the Interior because the public tender is set in a way that only one possible supplier is fully targeted. So when the state gives up that job in the last one, but doesn't notice any conjecture to be attached to it. Is there a question of that responsibility? So for me it was an example of a very, very suspicious job. And I can't help thinking that this job was very suspicious. And I think that such jobs are still networked, cross-netted Croatian public space or Croatian procurement at all levels, at all levels of school, so that Croatian Government or Croatian Parliament and ministries. In order to better implement this national programme, we have also gone to the establishment of anti-corruption commissions by county over the past few years. And now in the county where I live a month ago, of course in that county is late in everything, and even in something like this, they go to start by ruling in this case HDZ, who is acting in the county, going to establish an anti-corruption county commission, not understanding at all what the point of establishing a county anti-corruption commission is if the material says that it will be politically independent, they are sitting for seven members of the county anti-corruption commission to deliver a list of seven prominent members of their own party. So, in one county where their political party behaves and powers in the county, practically in all cities and municipalities. I don't think that there was a question, perhaps in this case the desire to play something already shows a comprehensive lack of understanding of the general idea, which would mean the idea of an anti-corruption commission or what the idea of fighting, some kind of fight against corruption or zero tolerance on corruption would mean if you were to establish one commission at the level of a county or as if we in the Croatian Parliament today were to establish an anti-corruption committee that would be sitting in the eleven representatives of the ruling coalition. I really don't know what that commission should represent then. But in trying to prove to these people that it doesn't make sense, they say, so give your two, but it's not the point of our two, the point is the general model, the model by which we're going to figure out that fight against corruption, whether we're going to know it at all and whether we're going to do anything as a society at all. And these criticisms that we have heard about the work of the National Council for monitoring the trial strategy and curbing the corruption of the Croatian Parliament are actually saying that in some way and in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of the acceptable composition of this commission, it is obviously not understood what this should mean and in what way, what should zero tolerance to corruption be? No matter what, I am not sure that the ideal solution is that twice a year we are discussing the six-month report of this commission on the one hand, and on the other hand, whoever has the leverage of the law that changes laws can't be exculpated by doing nothing, but then from the position of the government comes and says so the commission didn't work, do you have the levers of the law according to it change and set out in a way that this commission and all other commissions are working, and that in the Croatian society, indeed, indeed, it is recognized to an insufficient extent, indeed the desire of Croatian politics, wishes, not even action, but the wish of Croatian politics for real zero tolerance towards corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76610	Thank you, too. There is a replica of a respected representative of Bora Grubisic from the club at your exhibition.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76611	Thank you very much. Comrade Djurovic, you spoke well of the county anti-corruption committees. Namely, that's how it is all over the county, not the exception of your county I recognized from your presentation. In fact, what those who formed the county anti-corruption committees do not recognize and do not recognize is that part-ocracy is actually a good part of the source of corruption. It's also known for what you're saying, about nepotism and clientelism as elements, as one of the elements of corruption. And as for a fisherman or a fisherman, so a small fisherman, it's also quite helpful to the things that take place in our colleges that are also affected by certain things to say to corruption affairs. We also had one spectacular action at one of the colleges or two actually colleges, but there are a lot of those who start with a p, name, I won't mention here, where there's general knowledge, where it's public secret to buy exams and finish colleges, and then this way and furniture people fish and fishermen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76612	Replica response, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76613	Thank you. Well, it's not exactly the same in all counties, some counties, each county has passed its rules, some counties have, for example, passed regulations that in county anti-corruption committees, there's an example of one county, there can't be someone who's been a member of a political party in the past 3 years, so there are very different examples by county, in this county where you talk about where the government behaves HDZ, in the county as in Požega, there's a model very similar. When it comes to the perception of corruption among Croatian citizens, according to the 2012 survey, 96.1% sees corruption as... of officials and politicians who tolerate organised crime in exchange for a particular benefit, it is very worrying for those who are dealing with politics today. So Croatian citizens detect politicians like them and officials like those who are actually at the heart of corruption, and who has the most benefit from corruption, 85% of citizens answer that they are politicians, and only 60% that they are businessmen and those who deal with entrepreneurship. Of course that is not the case and cannot be so, but this is the perception of corruption in the eyes of Croatian citizens. For Croatian politics and Croatian officials, it is very, very worrying.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76614	And whose recipe for those three years does it take for a man to clear himself from politics? Whose recipe is that? Dear colleague representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76615	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Djurovic, you mentioned one of the fundamental principles in the fight against corruption, which is zero tolerance to corruption and politics in this context. The fact is, however, and you've detected it well, there is no actual will, because many politicians, regardless of party membership, are inclined to the principle, so politicians and in this context fight against corruption share mine and yours, mine and others, ours and yours. So, we are prepared to defend our own frequently, no matter what, and we are willing to resort to a pillar of shame. That's why I think when it comes to mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, MPs and MPs that the same principle should be applied, then we can agree, change eventually and regulations. So who should resign, who should eventually be removed until, of course, the presummation of innocence is proven. Those who are investigated, those who are suspected, those who are suspected, those who are accused, those who are tried, those who are judged in the first degree, or to the final verdict when guilty or innocent. When we are complex and truly determined about it, then it will be easier to fight this evil, which unfortunately we will never end.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76616	Replica response, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76617	Yeah, I think that, I agree with you, I think most people agree with you. Of course again in the light of what you said until they're not ours, while others are. Yes, well, of course, I should be there, I really am not an expert, nor do I imagine that they can be for that area, but it should certainly see what are the best examples and what models are applicable to those countries in which we have seen ourselves in this respect and these models and those criteria that are applicable in these countries of the EU simply force them into the Republic of Croatia because if we can force and price energy and cost of life and all the legislation, then I guess if they don't cost us anything, then they'll use Croatian society to force those criteria on the EU's most developed countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76618	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76619	Dear counterpart Djurovic, I heard the first time about zero-performing expressions of corruption when Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor was president, but I met with those terms and at the stage when I was an observer in several countries, the most comic one was in Georgia when President Margvellašvili lectured on the zero degree of tolerance towards corruption and said that there was no corruption in Georgia because when they came to power, 98% of the officials replaced and set up their own, so now they were fair, and these were thieves. And of course we all laughed in the hall, although the president gave us a lecture. We laughed at it. They really fired everyone and hired their own. All of this reminds me not in such a comical way and in Croatia. So that, you've talked about it, about not understanding some officials at lower levels, which is actually a better process of corruption. How they will understand when the Prime Minister does not understand and he does not understand all the time that the indications and that what we ourselves heard through the media for two SDP officials are enough to seek political responsibility, not guilt, but political responsibility. That what my colleague Kosor said before that or I don't know each other was that you said to get out of office so long as the process didn't end. But people need to get arrested by the police and then say no, that's not enough reason. The bodies will decide when. Then why did we judge Mr. Sanader? Mr. Sanader doesn't have a single rightful verdict right now, he's innocent. I think we're hypocritical, that even here in the Parliament we speak hypocritically and that the Prime Minister is teaching us to be corrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76620	Replica response, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76621	In that part, I also fully agree with you. That's again what MP Kosor said the problem of yours and ours. And then when they're theirs, we see everything, and then when they're ours, it's a little harder for us to notice it, and that's kind of how let me put it human if we're gonna be honest. But what I think we have is a problem, we have a problem, which, unfortunately, we have no independent media here in 2014. There is no public pressure with us, there is no critical mass of society that is outside the influence of party or political parties if you will and which would have any effect on any social movement. And not to say how much damage has been done in this society, in its development, to top state officials about it, some institutions are doing their job. We've listened to them since 2000, so we listen to them until today. It's one thesis that hides behind crime, corruption, nepotism and all the worst things they're wearing. The most dirty forms of politics, and it simply hides such an institution, the work of institutions. That's where I agree with you, too. It has nothing to do with any political responsibility or political, social, or personal responsibility in any particular event. Unfortunately, though, some institutions have been doing their job since that year 2000, since it was launched here until today, until 2014 it lives and only changes the political colors, patterns and carriers behind it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76622	Thank you very much. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community in the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative Frano Matušić is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76623	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So I would start my exposure to the fact that corruption is a phenomenon that is not only specific to Croatian society and that exists to a greater or lesser extent in all countries in the world. It is necessary to assess the location of Croatia and how effective Croatian society is in the fight against corruption, and certainly one of the instruments is this National Council that monitors the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy. In fact, the more serious fight against corruption in Croatia was only just beginning at the time of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union which could therefore be translated into that situation that we were brought into this situation to deal with this phenomenon more seriously as a society, and that is the fact. It's a fact that I think is also known to the entire public. Of course it's a good thing that we've been put in that position and, of course, it's a good thing that we've reacted and we've created instruments that are a prerequisite for a quality fight against corruption. And we can track the results every day. I will not enter any individual case current or any other potential, but the fact that in Croatia today I would say strong enough instruments with which to actually deal with corruption. Whether they are accepted enough by all actors in Croatian society is a question that we can ask in all institutions and that is something that takes care of this report on the work of the National Council. Of course it will never be enough and, of course, it should strive to suppress corruption as much as possible and not be present in society. And even those societies that are spoken of as some societies that are the role model for us in Croatia, often mentioned by the Scandinavian countries, for example, from European countries. Even these societies have a strong fight against corruption, which means that corruption is very strong in these societies, but corruption is also present. I'll just say one case, let's say Patria. Patria is not a Croatian firm, Patria is a Finnish firm. So, in that case, the Finns are exporters of corruption. What we could track from the media to Slovenia was partly covered by Croatia, etc. So it's a phenomenon that exceeds the limits, which exceeds the obvious and systems of societies, and it's a phenomenon that will obviously exist together with human society. So that's the weakness of the individual. But automatically if this individual behaves a certain duty and is in a certain institution, then it is the weakness of that institution, which means ultimately, and the weakness of society, and that is what we are talking about here today. We are talking about mechanisms that need to be strengthened to really reduce corruption to the least possible measure. And in that sense this report, which is in front of us, carries reports that actors actually carried out in this period of one year. And I'm really surprised, I'm surprised by the position of the SDP club that says they're not eligible for a report because it refers to a period of one year. At the same time, they forget that there has been no report on the fight against corruption by the National Council for almost two years. This is from mid-2010 to this report, i.e. until mid-2012, i.e. by 11 July 2012. I think that this report, no matter how satisfied we are with the individual measures and implementation of the strategy, we should accept the report as a report, we will certainly support it in the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community. The more we know that certain activities took place after this report. One of the most important activities that has pointed to the corruption of a law that we have passed in the Croatian Parliament is extremely important, and this is the Law on Pre-profit settlement. We have had one very interesting exhibition, primarily experts, lawyers, professors of law school, representatives of unions and others that have made it very clear about the corruption of this law. Unfortunately, after that session, which was publicly followed, we did not have any controversy in the Croatian Parliament in the way that we received an amended bill on pre-fashion settlement. And this is really about billions of kunas, it's really about billions of kunas that we haven't even got a list of institutions, or companies that are forgiven, based on what, to what extent, etc. So we must absolutely bring our action into line with what the National Council has already put before it and before the Croatian public. And there is the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament, primarily the ruling majority. For it is clear to all that the draft laws that come from the ranks of opposition will not see the light of day nor see it. I will mention only here is the connection of Croatia's south to the Peljev Bridge. The law proposed by the Croatian Democratic Community has proposed the law, for more than a year and a half is being acidified on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament and it is clear that it may sometimes not come to the agenda at some late hours when there are one or two representatives in the Croatian Parliament. But in fact, it is the responsibility of the ruling coalition to act on the findings of the body formed by the Parliament in this case that is the National Council for the monitoring of the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy and, in fact, by its action, to support this fight against corruption. Which means strategy if in concrete examples where the Croatian Parliament is involved in the adoption of such laws which apparently leave a space that is not transparent enough, it is not clear enough. And what it means is that we act in this way not to correct these mistakes that have been made by truly the greatest experts in Croatian society dealing with these issues and representatives of the judiciary and representatives of the law school and all others who have nothing to say and have said about this concrete law. So, in general, here's what I want to say again on behalf of the HDZ Club that we will accept this report. And that we're glad to actually see that the National Council has put an emphasis on prevention. Because we think that through prevention and that means more transparent instruments can be done a lot to combat corruption. It's a prevention, even though the state's apparatus works justly on time. And that's prevention against corruption. Because if a state apparatus, if one part of the state body cannot be solved because of overcrowding, overcrowding within a reasonable period of time, by a time period of certain questions, of course it leaves room for someone to be comfortable then, that some cases are solved, that some others are not solved. Even the petty corruption that is also present in society is the result of the precisely inadequate action of certain state institutions, here begins from hospitals and beyond. My predecessors spoke here about the way I work, but we can't say that it's about corruption, of course it's about nepotism, it's about nepotism that can be linked to corruption. And it's really interesting that some colleges teach whole families. There may be such families that have truly gifted individuals. But it is certain that the Croatian public would know about their results and then it would be justified to expect that in one university they present a husband, wife and their child, daughter or son, there are such cases in me because it is possible that it is indeed justified, but it seems difficult to justify such a fact as my predecessor from the HDSSB club said. Therefore, there are such examples, and there should indeed be caution, and all those who have made decisions on such employment in these public procurement institutions must be absolutely certain that, in accordance with the best criteria and with transparent action, they have actually made decisions on such employment. It's the same thing about public procurement. Public procurement is detected as a space where corruption can occur and where corruption happens. And now the question is what we as a legislative body have done to reduce that space or to completely shut it down so that it is not at all suitable for corruption. We see from public debates that companies dealing with only appeal processes appear today in public procurement processes and stop in fact the development of society, i.e. stop the development of certain municipalities, cities, counties, and some state institutions, etc. So these spaces we are obliged to actually close down and we need to react as soon as possible to such phenomena. If public procurement is the place where corruption happens, then we must urgently amend the Public Procurement Act. If the Pre-departure Deal Act is the area in which corruption occurs or corruption may occur, and if there is a lot of inadequacy as indicated, then we must react urgently to such phenomena. So prevention is something where a special accent has given the National Council, and in that sense I think it's a good direction to work for the National Council, and it will certainly deliver results in the future, and that is why we, the HDZ Club, will support this report by the National Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76624	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica of the respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76625	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm going to start this replica by pointing out that what the distinguished representative Matusic said is true, which is that really no society is immune to corruption as much as it has been developed and it's right on us as politicians before all other tasks that every day in every respect we fight corruption and that we do everything we can to make every form, every phenomenon and corruption condemn. And I am glad that you said that we will not talk about names today, and that is why I will invite you to join me in condemning every form of corruption, but first of all, in condemning those forms of corruption that have been succumbed to by state and local officials, and that all the political parties in the Croatian Parliament come together and show the citizens that no matter what they miss they still have and will be, things are changing in Croatia and that is for the better. However, there is a part of your exposure that I cannot agree with, and it relates to the work of the council. In recent months, we've had really good and quality work. We started reviewing the reports again, but it's an indisputable fact that we missed all of 2013 and all of what we're doing now, what we did last week at a session, what we're going to do next week we could do throughout 2013, because there were things we could discuss. If there were no reports, we should have discussed why they were missing and some of the corruption that occurred. And lastly, you were talking about pre-determined settlements but you didn't mention one fact, which is that in his final statement, the finance minister made it clear that there were shortcomings and that it was about their removal. He announced the direction those removals would go and received full support from all representatives of the academic community at the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76626	Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76627	Dear colleague, I was in the session, I didn't really see that full support of the academic community. Moreover, some members of the academic community said that the law should be banned immediately, abolished and that it is simply impossible for it to be sustainable at all and that it is amazing what is happening under that law. If you want, we can also see the minutes from that session, but all of them said it needed to be changed urgently, that it could not be the Ministry of Finance that will decide in this cadium process and sue, cadium and judgment, and that the court must be involved in this process, that it is necessary to set out precisely the criteria by which someone is forgiven the millions due to the state, etc. So there are no criteria, and now let's not enter the Pre-departure settlement Act, but it's not as sorry as you said. But I agree with you absolutely that the issue of fighting corruption should have the support of all of us and I believe that there are all of us and that we need to be even more effective there and that, in fact, by creating instruments such as laws and through bodies that deal specifically with this problem, we really need to strengthen all those who are fighting corruption and we need to give them quality instruments. As for the work of the council itself, I have already told you in my statement that between mid-2010 and 11 July 2012, from which this report begins, we were completely unreported. He was your National Council president back then. So for that period there are no reports at all for two years, and we are talking here about the year there were meetings, where there were seven council meetings and there was one thematic session. Therefore, it absolutely does not stand as a question of council activity that your statement is making.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76628	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76629	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Matušić, you mentioned something but very briefly Patria and Fince, so that affair of Slovenia-Finska and the people involved, we will not tell about the names. However, given that Patria and her business with Croatia, in particular Đur Djakovic in Slavonski Brod, where the licence of the fighting vehicle Patria was sold and there is a contract between Đura Djakovic and Finland, it is an interesting fact, so I must say because for... it makes me a little sicker, that this license is therefore our version and Patria is more expensive than Slovenia, which is suspected of being involved in corruption, although the Croatian version has no fighting cannon. So the Slovenian Patria with the battle cannon is cheaper than the Croatian without a battle cannon, so now man must start thinking or at least doubt what is happening here. But here's the deal so far, I don't know how it's gonna go any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76630	Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76631	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's hoping that the investigations will give concrete results, i.e. concrete answers to your doubts. I was telling the truth about that, in this case, corruption imported from Finland, so from a country perceived as a country that may at least be corruption among European countries. What about Germany? In Germany, it is estimated that the black market that is certainly involved and corruption is an annual amount of about 400 billion euros. At European Union level, the number is even more defeated. That's 2,000 billion euros on the black market. It is certain that one part applies to corruption, and the good part probably also to corruption. So this is something that needs to be fought and it should be pointed out that the future of a society is a very important fight against corruption. But today we also have some societies that call themselves democratic, in which the very richest persons in that society are mayors, directors of public enterprises, members of the Government, so ministers or representatives of the state. So what we can think of are those societies that represent themselves as democratic, democratic societies. So, of course Croatia is miles ahead of these and it's good to be in front of such societies. But these are the societies with which we communicate, with which we are in trade relations, with which we communicate on a daily basis regarding businessmen etc. So you need to open your eyes well and deal with the world around us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76632	Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76633	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Matusic, you mentioned that we have strong instruments in the fight against corruption. I agree. One large part of these instruments have been grinded and further strengthened at the time of the negotiations for entry into the European Union. Therefore, we could place these instruments in those legislative, therefore strong, strong CAPs and, of course, the Criminal Law, as well as the Law on the confiscation of property, illegally acquired by corruptive criminal acts, amendments to the Constitution, etc. etc. On the other hand, the independence of judicial authorities, therefore independence, full independence of judicial authorities. These are the two strong instruments, namely the independence of both DORH and USKOK and the independence of courts, regardless of the various political pressures. Political pressure is of course every statement and any statement can be interpreted during the process as political pressure. That's why I think it's always the ruling party or the ruling parties have to be the ones that I'd say are hitting a pace in that sense. So they strengthen that perception of determination. And that's why I think the role of the National Council here is particularly important and interesting because the National Council has to monitor the processes, but it can also be an initiator in amendments to the regulations that are here in my opinion one of these important instruments. So, as far as the instruments are concerned, I agree. The Republic of Croatia has strong and strong instruments only of course should be applied consistently.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76634	Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76635	Well, I agree with you, colleague Kosor, but this report is also in one section talking about political pressures on the judiciary and the police, that is, the State's Attorney's office and the court. And that's what worries, and that's actually what the National Council needs to deal with to prevent political advances that could be interpreted as political pressure. We've had concrete political pressures. Let's just remember some cases around the so-called. Lex Perkovic when you have a high source from the government, and the government doesn't deny it afterwards. It is then quite clear that this is obviously the government's position not to speak publicly, but to express through other channels as high sources from the government. So absolutely it is an area for which we are solely responsible in politics, but above all those who are ruling. Because their management of the mechanisms of the state, in fact, needs to be a defense through which they must not act in their political statements in terms of pressure on the judiciary or trying to actually conclude certain things by the basis of their political will. Fortunately, we have seen that the judiciary and the attorney's office have strongly resisted such attempts, but I think that, as a society in general, we should strongly condemn such attempts of pressure and then we will certainly have a more effective fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76636	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate of representatives in the Croatian Parliament for 10 minutes. It's time for the Honorable Representative, Joseph Kregar. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to discuss this matter. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76637	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The topic on the agenda today is the report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy from half of 2012 to half of 2013. So, for a year's time. The very subject and title of this report would cause great interest among the citizens of the Republic of Croatia if I said that debate would be in the early hours when citizens and hear some things about what they have such perception about, as my colleague Djurovic said, that the influence of politics and politicians is actually creating about 96% of corruption, and that 96% of those who are involved in politics are in some kind of corruption. The very fact that 6 of us reported today for the debate on this subject, so 4 clubs and 2 individuals of which one is here and not in the bench, so 5 discussions in total let's say that corruption is being shortened something that when our citizens read it eventually in some news report that there have been so many of us and that we've been discussing corruption 5 people to evaluate already, and this is one peaceable and gentle tone of this debate about all possible affairs. And the affair is, they agree from day to day, although it's not the subject of this report, but in any case, it's going to be something, they're going to say they're not going to touch themselves, so they've discussed it gently, and the report will be concluded by my debate today and over. What's all this corruption, what's it all about? A colleague spoke of employment on various lines, grandmothers, uncles, or political similarities. They say that in one ministry, a citizen met me in the square and said please tell me that 100 new people have been employed at the Foreign Ministry. I say I don't know if it's busy, how would I know, but he says I know because I worked there and I know 100 new people are employed. How's the job? I don't know. Is there nepotism and clientelism, or is nepotism, as Matušić said, partly related to corruption. I'll hire you, but... There's three more points behind that. What is new in our criminal justice and corruption to prevent or prevent corruption? It's an instrument or a tool to say the repentances that some of them told me were being told in prisons, as someone said today behind bars, that when one of those who are in prison and the perpetrators are serious crimes, when the rat is, so when he's doing exactly what some of our penitents are doing, he's got among those people who are perpetrators of serious crimes, so we know in some ways to say what kind of things he's completely removed, unrespectable. As if he's considered the worst possible. But with us in criminal law, we are introducing this very instrument of repentance. And then you're actually showing off. It's not repentance, it's possible, but it's a showdown. What's in it for us? We have what my colleague says, and again I quote my colleague Đurović, no one is guilty until proven guilty or some institutions do their job, so we have yours and ours or that Slavonic one that goes by which authority ours outplayed. So now we have these cases that are most recent in connection with the ruling and those who are inadmissible or in the process of investigation or judgment, and now that I'm not speaking specifically. But we can also say that here are the latest cases and those two, three months ago from the Ministry of Finance, etc. So, when there is a change of government then we will also look at the effects and possibly whether the Pre-departure Deal Act has also brought a kind of corruption. Did it please the forgiveness of the debt and who was favored in forgiveness of the debt, and will there be elements of nepotism or elements of nepotism, in fact, no? But we'll only observe that when eventually, I won't prejudge any election results that I'm not interested in this time but only in two or three years. It is said that in Germany, 400 billion euros in circulation is on the black market, said Mr. Matusic. It's part of it, anyway, and it goes like so-called. an official commission to be passed. We also know about the purchase of X-ray machines or radiology equipment, so you buy everything from one company, not from a German firm, now I'm not going to mention names we know which is all the company that manufactures X-ray machines. Well, we know that trucks, so we know about fire trucks, so there's as much as you want. Here in this report we have a constantly large number of memories of years, but this is how it says in 2010 and then in 2009 and so on, etc. The report as a report is written quite dry and so written that we haven't even had it yet. We have one report that we have received, but what is worst is that regardless of the tools and what we have classified after negotiations with the EU after the EU's entry, the perception of corruption in Croatian society has not been reduced by 0, not by zero tolerance, nor by zero tolerance. Let's look at the headlines of our newspaper, every day, it's amazing what zeroes and what tolerance. Well, it didn't go down by zero either. On some of our corruption affairs mainly in public procurement, etc. There are also some services from Europe. They have a right to that, given that we are in the EU. Some processes would never have arisen if it hadn't been for the people or the EU agency that pointed to corruption, which, unfortunately, our institutions said they hadn't done their job, so European institutions had to do their job. I would love and wish that our judiciary would truly be completely independent and completely out of force and I would say to those who are in power or not in power, so whether in opposition or in position they worked completely on their own and tried completely on their own, explored completely on their own and decided completely on their own. What is the choice of corruption, so first of all power, it's power or politics anyway, a policy that is... what is the goal of politics, of every party? To come to power and achieve their objectives and programmes through that authority. It is the definition of a political party, through the party then and politics goes and public procurement but also employment and these are sources of corruption, in public procurement we know how it goes, I will not repeat the colleagues who spoke before me. In employment especially or mainly because there is no layoff of those before, they just go downstairs to the hierarchy in a particular institution whether it is a state, county, municipal or city government, is not anywhere. So, the one who was a referent, he's no longer a referent, he's going to be our referent and yours will remain just as a clerk in the service but he's not fired and so we're piling up a strong administration and it's not an effective administration, not an effective one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76638	Thank you very much. We have replicas, a respected representative of Peja Grbin, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76639	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, they're started with something that may not be related to the debate itself, but the fact that I often listen to my colleague Grubisic and when I listen to him, he always complains that there's a debate in the afternoon, but we can't just work in the morning, the Parliament has to sit and the afternoon, and it's normal for something in the agenda to come in these hours and I think we have representatives here today and we're discussing it very constructively and we're discussing this fight against corruption. You said that to analyse the current government, that is to say, the work of the current government and the fight against corruption will have to wait for a change of government, but that is not the case. That is why this council, which we call anti-corruption, has the president of the opposition, most of its members from the opposition and the civil sector, is set up. That is exactly what it was about not waiting for a change of government so that it could be evaluated and assessed whether a particular structure is fighting corruption or not. What I am sorry for, and what I have already said before, and what distinguished colleague Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanić said was the fact that the council has not met for over a year to hold a regular session and that is the problem. But now that we're working, we're going to see how closely we monitor and implement the strategy and implementation of the action plans. Yes, some things may be dry, but the reports are such that concrete indicators of the fight against corruption are seen and you are now saying that Croatia is not progressing at all, that it has not progressed by a single point. In 2013, we climbed five places. There's 120 countries behind us in the world, we're 57 places away. Is that good enough? It's not. It should be better, but the fact is that already six EU member states are behind us. You can't say there's no progress.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76640	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76641	My fellow coat of arms, you didn't listen to me very carefully. Namely, when I was talking about the very term of this debate, so let's tell me honestly whether it would have been better if we had discussed this in the morning and this afternoon about Nikola Tesla and the National Day for Nikola Tesla on July 10th. Here's what you're gonna tell me, so there was a possibility. Secondly, I was talking about the perception of corruption among Croatian citizens, so if you're moving amongst, I think you're moving because I know that you were at certain times in a large circle of friends and you know well how citizens think about everything and also about corruption in Croatian society. There, so, and that we moved 22 places in Europe from 28 to the EU, I'm sorry, I don't know how many we were, a couple of places. I'm saying, so it's official results, they're what they are, so there's a certain shift, but I'm talking about the perception of citizens that every day, every day, so do you watch a diary at all if you're reading a newspaper or so, so that's, we're bombed by the first news on any news show of any commercial or public precisely with these things and then the perception of the public is that in Croatia corruption is booming.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76642	Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76643	Oh, thank you. ... Today, it would be concluded that the central issue of today's work of the Parliament is not the issue of corruption but of where Nikola Tesla's monument will be in Gospić. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] And we share that impression that the issue of corruption is much more important than this other question that actually dominated today's morning, but maybe it's just our opinion, maybe other colleagues have a different opinion. It was about transparency, you were talking about transparency. I think a great contribution to this transparency would be if it were made public, for example, where and where public money is paid in the form of various subsidies. I will mention only two examples, so if you are obliged to do so in the same state, it will publicly announce that you are in debt through that debt register, but if you have received a subsidy from that same country, whether through various forms of incentives through the Agency for Payment in Agriculture, it is several billion kunas, public data on that no user has or can be obtained, if you or your company are a privileged credit that is subsidized again by the Croatian State through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, also in the amount of that subsidy so many of you are subsidized can't be obtained and it represents a business secret. I think one of the actually contributes to reducing the feeling of corruption would certainly be that Croatian citizens are familiar with the money that someone subsidises themselves from whatever source.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76644	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76645	Thank you very much. A colleague of Đurović, our property cards that we have handed over to the Commission for the conflict of interest, can be entered into public data, so anyone can enter the Internet into the Committee of Conflict of Interest and read what one of us owns. However, if you were to ask for information from the placement of these preferential loans in the form, the other day we discussed them, so incentives, etc. For the economy, then you can't get the information that these loans are shared with. And I personally know that some loans went to the presidents of the county organizations that were in power in those counties, I won't speak the name of the party, so 5 million, 10 million, etc. ...that they got. Today these companies unfortunately failed, how sorry I am that they failed because of 439 employees who, therefore, went into bankruptcy and got fired, but despite HBOR loans and how these loans will be settled is a big, big question. Unfortunately, we do not have this, this transparency should be legally and in all ways ours from fellow MPs, so allow us to have insight, that all citizens have insight into who is being helped through both the Agriculture Payment Agency and the HBOR so let it be known how it is done and who the credits are being granted to, and that would then be much more transparent, perhaps less corrupt than what is done like this by Shegon and the company.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76646	Dear Representative Ivica Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76647	Mr. President. Dear fellow Boro, you have touched the subject you called nepotism or political resemblance... and employment in your debate. Interestingly, you always find examples that suit you. I'm going to give you a concrete example from the county from which I come, concrete employment in primary schools. That the professors from the city from which I or the winners of... awards were completed, but that in the competitions they could not achieve a job, and the same county government, with its influences, hired, not from Djakov, but from Osijek, which I think is also one way of non-transparent and unquality spending of public money. It is our responsibility as a policy to spend public money in the highest quality possible way. So if the candidates who satisfy, and between the winners... prizes can't win the job already, the same ones who come from Osijek because they are similar politically and therefore I say and agree with my colleague Drazen Djurovic who said that the issue is public disclosure of data and all transactions. It's the only way, the best way to fight corruption. If we're transferring the problem to someone else's yard, I think it's a bad debate. I think this is the best way, it's gonna be a public question, and it's gonna be easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76648	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76649	My colleague Madic, behind your debate, is that I said it was 100 people, so you did not deny it, that 100 people were employed at the Foreign Ministry. It's not my fault, I didn't hire anyone, so your replica is actually, I think it's been produced and it's come from that fact. But as long as you know so much about Osijek-Baranja County, I know that you mocked our mayor when we had a large number of county candidates, for 3 candidates you had over 40 applications so that the laxative was to get out of the hat, which, second, whoever you hire will say, you hired him over the link. Well, you can't do anything else. What else can you do? And secondly, you'd be much better off dealing with the fifth constituency you've been chosen from than with the fourth, chosen even though you live and live in the fourth. There. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice and do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76650	We'll discuss that later, after the session. Hello. We are going to the next replica, the respected representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76651	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Grubisic, you have touched the Law on Pre-war settlement, but here's why he is corrupt. Today you have in the media a statement by a judge who had the first courage to say that it is actually a big fraud and a space that introduces the possibility of corruptive action, that is Mr. Kolakusic, who today publicly said that the question to the Ministry of Finance was asked how much money was paid from pre-profit deals in the State budget and now suddenly that information is secret. What's this information supposed to be secret information for? The state should now boast if it has saved certain societies, if it has saved certain societies, if it has saved jobs, whether it has saved because we see from the current cases that it returns to first-degree etc. constructors, etc. Some other company. So the state should boast with the data that it's been paid into the state budget so much and so much money, but since then, the Ministry of Finance says it's a secret piece of information, why, how? Is the Ministry of Finance a public institution or a secret institution, is that someone's secret service, the Ministry of Finance? It should be transparent and publicly open to know who's paying the state budget, and it can't come from the Ministry of Finance that it's a secret piece of information, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, what we're like, the state. If the institutions that are, which must be public and transparent, give us such answers. So it's just amazing. And secondly, I agree with you in, unfortunately, the current ruling coalition has seen the ministry as a party prey and thus employ in certain institutions, not only the ministries but also the institutions associated with the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76652	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76653	Thank you very much. Dear Matošić, if we were, we're all curious to actually see the effects, the effects, however you want this Act on pre-nuptial settlement. Indeed, I am convinced that both my colleagues from the SDP and the Kukuriku coalition would like to know the effects of this pre-fashion, and we also heard from electronic media this morning that Croatia's public debt and the Croatian state's debt went to 67% of GDP. So we would expect management in 2.5 years as much as Kukuriku is in power coalitions and through all measures, as well as the Law on Pre-price settlement, the fall of that, but it doesn't happen, we even have an increase, a big increase. Unfortunately, here's how we're going, and what we're going to do. But what my colleague Djurovic and I mentioned was this transparency, so that we had insight, that everyone has insights as we have insights and as the whole public has insight into the property cards of MPs and officials, so the Commission for Conflict of Interest should also have insight into all documents, including the effects.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76654	Thank you very much. On behalf of the rapporteur of the report, the President of the National Council, final word, honourable representative Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76655	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The SDP representative's club has been criticised by this report, my esteemed colleague, the deputy council president, Ms Vesna Križanac, as well as a member of the council of colleagues, Peja Grbin, indicated that they would not support this report and therefore give their reasons. One of the key reasons they gave was that the Council did not work last year 2013, that it did not work in 2013. Let's see if that's the case. The first council was established in this assembly, in this composition on 11 July 2012. Seven thematic sessions were held in the autumn, and it should be known that on the team, i.e. at these regular sessions, there were not thematic sessions, at these regular sessions that reports were discussed with twenty-four operators of measures under the action plan. These are mainly except for a few of all ministries, these are various state agencies, competition protection agencies, public procurement and the like. For the first time since the Council was established and has been established in front of the public in open sessions, media have been discussing these reports. Unanimously, all members of the council, including those we call Colloquial members, supported these reports. And that was all until the end of 2012. What is the content, the main content of the work of the National Council? To be a strong supervisory control mechanism and tools, and a tool of the Croatian Parliament, to monitor and control whether the executive authority has carried out its tasks as given to it by action plans. So, that the Croatian Parliament, through the National Council, controls whether it is the executive power, whether the ministries and these other state bodies, including the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK, have done their tasks. And these tasks were assigned to them through the government action plan, the government adopted action plans as well as this action plan, under which the Council discussed and determined in those 7 sessions in 2012 whether they were in action plans, whether those measures were implemented in the action plan were in order to carry out each of these individual ministries or other state bodies. And there we were all consensually, I don't remember there was, that even of these from the academic community, from the employers' union, were there one, one dissonant tone. So that's where we decided and acted completely consensually. On a proposal from the National Council at the first constitutional session on 11 July 2012, we proposed to the Government to adopt a revised action plan. And 15.12. The government is now adopting the revised action plan with around 175 measures or tasks. Of those 340 if I'm not mistaken from the action plan, the old action plan 80, 90% of them were executed. The assembly starts the meeting in 2013, I think 23 January begins the session. I prepare together with some council members, prepare two thematic sessions, two thematic sessions that should really be very, have a very powerful effect. And in this preparation of the first session, the first thematic session was scheduled for April 5th, for April 24th, on the topic "Assessing the effects and analysis of the 2008 Anti-Corruption Strategy". As introductions, they were the minister of justice on the topic "Fighting corruption in the light of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union", Marin Mrčela, Judge of the Supreme Court "Viewing for five years Anti-Corruption Strategy", Drazen Jelenić, Deputy Chief State Attorney, also on the subject, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, as former Prime Minister on the subject of positive experiences in the implementation of the Strategy, Professor Josip Kregar on the subject of changes in the social context and... frameworks from the time of the creation of the Strategy, corruption of the case or system, Professor Zdravko Petak at the Faculty of Political Sciences on the topic "Critic Points on the Implementation of Anti-Corruption Strategy", Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Drazen Gorjanski from Osijek on the subject of "Systemic Problem and Corruption in Croatian Health", Dr. Jelena Budak, Economic Institute Zagreb on the subject of "The Experience of Croatian Citizens with Administrative Corruption", Duje Prkut, representative of GONG on the topic "Analysis and Strategy on the Prevention of Corruption and Action Plans" and Saša Šegrt, executive director of the TIH on the subject of "The effects and the current and strategy in the context of social change". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, there is really no meeting of the National Council between the end of January and 24 April. And why is it to us? Because Justice Minister Orstat Milenic, on the basis of criticism and a proposal for initiatives from the NGO sector of the 112 platform, numerous suggestions, remarks and criticisms created by this NGO sector, suggests that you do not yet put this revised action plan at the National Council session but when we consider it in the Government, the Ministry of Justice, when we consider all these criticisms, suggestions and proposals from the NGO sector gathered in Platform 112, we will then deliver it to you. And that, then you on the National Council, discuss this revised action plan. This was the reason why, in this period since March, April, I may not schedule a session of the National Council, I expect it will come from the Ministry of Justice, or the Government, a revised action plan with all these objections from the NGO sector. And at that session, the thematic session on 24 April 2013, we are just finding it. We expect the Minister to deliver this revised action plan, the revised, revised action plan, and we will discuss it at the National Council by 15 July 2013. It didn't come. It didn't come. It's gone and it came, it came in the fall of 2013. The truth is, I could or could have, in the National Council, been able to, and in this revised action plan, where there were obligations from different ministries and state bodies, to 175 measures or 175 tasks to be carried out. It should be said that the revised action plan included measures that should be implemented in particular by the ministry, some measures in the first quarter of 2013, some in the second quarter of 2013, some in the third, some in the fourth, some in the fourth, and some were permanent measures. They measure with their hand permanently. So I could pull out a few measures that were related to the first and second quarter of 2013 and give them up for debate and adoption on the National Council. But I was waiting for the whole thing. There I may have been wrong not to give part of the debate on certain quarters and deadlines for the implementation of the forwarding measures by the first or second quarter of 2013. The autumn came, constitutional changes came, lex Perkovic and all about it, a warm political atmosphere, and it was not during that period, there was no activity of the National Council in the sense of convening the sessions. But there were other activities of the National Council. All sorts of performances, citizens' applications, associations came to the National Council and I delivered each of these plays to both members and members of the National Council, addressed them to the competent law enforcement authorities, notably USKOK and DORH, and requested feedback on this criminal application to indicate corrupt behaviour. And it was one form of activity of the National Council. So, if there are some, if there are any missing activities in 2013 then you should see what these reasons are. And now I present the reasons why it was waiting to say on the revised action plan with embedded objections from the non-governmental sector. These were the key reasons why, apart from this thematic session, it was not until the first three quarters of 2013, why there was no session of the National Council. The only thing I might be responsible for is why it wasn't in the last quarter. But here's an excuse may or may not be that they were very violent and dynamic political debates that drew attention to the constitutional changes that drew attention to the topic of the National Council. It is essential that one of the following, there cannot be any valid argument that the National Council Report will not be adopted for this period from 11 July of the day of the establishment of the National Council in 2012 to 30 June, so half of the year because, during that period, the Council has carried out a thorough and fully agreed, full consensus of all the members and members of the Council. Here are Mrs. Vice-President, Mr. Grbin, so for that period, if it has been done since 2012, the National Council has fully completed its task. And for this period where there were no sessions here are reasons why there were no sessions other than the thematic session of the National Council. You're saying this report took twice a year. Indeed, according to the 2009 Decision on Amendments and Supplements on the establishment and division of the National Council, the National Council was to submit a report twice a year. Earlier President of the Council, my predecessor Mr Zeljko Jovanovic submitted the latest report on the work of the National Council for the period from 1.6.2009 to 30.6.2010. There are no more reports after that. Since 30.6.2010, there have been no further reports of the work of the National Council. Two years. And I submit this report for the period from 11 July to 30 June, that's cca. A year. The following report will be held for the period from 30 June 2013 to 30 June of this year. It'll be the second report. I think it's with that, that it's being fulfilled and that the obligation is being fulfilled, to submit that report. The draft report, what is being criticised, is that the SDP criticises why I did not call a special session of the National Council and that it would adopt the report. The Council's professional service drew up a draft report, sent it to all the members and members of the National Council with a deadline and with an application that, if within a certain period, I do not remember exactly how much it is, but it was written precisely if it has any objections, it should be made comments, if there are suggestions, let the proposals be made. If not, you will agree with, agrees with the Council, with the draft council. None of the members and members of the council made any single remarks, none of the only written or e-mailed or any other proposal or comment on the draft report, and therefore I sent this report to the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Croatian Parliament as a report from the National Council. Finally, it is crucial and important that this National Council is fully in line with its decision, debated and determined in front of the eyes of the public and the media everything relevant and derived from their tasks, obligations, rights and duties provided for by the decision to set up the National Council in countering corruption and made a strong contribution by controlling and overseeing the Government, ministries and various state bodies in that primary task of the Council, which is to control and monitor whether ministries and various bodies as holders of measures under the operational programme have carried out and carried out their tasks. And we are in these 7 sessions and now later when these new sessions, we have always found everywhere that all the ministries and all the competent bodies have done their tasks in a timely and valid manner and given them a full green light. In this regard, we pointed to certain proposals, gave certain initiatives, proposed a new strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Government that should have been adopted long ago, but has not yet been adopted by the Ministry of Justice of the New Strategy for the Prevention of Corruption. I know that they have the same great difficulty because it is not easy, I know that it is very difficult to draw up an action plan that consists of the obligations of all ministries in preventive action against corruption. The DORH and USKOK have a second task in repressive action, but this National Council, according to its decision, according to his mission, at least in 2012 thoroughly and responsibly completed his mission. One thing you see is very interesting, when I opened the sessions of the National Council to the public and when the media was sitting, there were journalists sitting, and there was no interest. Why? When my colleague Jovanovic held those council sessions in general, they were closed sessions without the media, the council president gave an explanation after the council's session, answered the question of journalists, and now it seems that I was very wrong to open the council's meetings for the public and for the media because there was nothing more enigmatic. And I was probably wrong in something else, because I didn't handle specific cases, and I don't think it's Council tasks because we're not investigative judges, we're not USCOCK, we're not POSCOCK, we're not any other investigative body or persecutor body, we have other obligations, quite other rights and duties. It was interesting for the media, for the public when he was president of counterpart Jovanovic where certain specific issues were raised in closed sessions on the basis of certain applications, and that was interesting. Here when it was calmly debated without some media great sensationalism, it was suddenly not interesting for the public and for the media, although these reports of the ministers, the State's Attorney's Office, the USKOK, the Ministry of Justice, the defence, the finance and others were very interesting and touched really important issues and indeed showed that the Croatian Parliament through the National Council controlled and controlled the application of anti-corruption measures, strategies and action plans. I'll be done with it now. I ask my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP to respect these reasons if they can be respected and not be against accepting this report. By being against, for reasons that the Council has not worked for a year, it will actually devolve all Council work in 2012 and work in all thematic sessions. And I think it is simple and from the point of view of the political role played by the National Council and the Croatian Parliament, that giving the red light to the work of the National Council for this period, and this is the period when the Council actually acted effectively from 11 July until the end of 2012, so that it would not be easy to counterproductive. But you will finally vote your decisions. Interestingly, the government was manifested in its written opinion that there were no objections. The government has no objections to the report on the work of the National Council. If the government has no objections, then don't have any objections either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76656	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Council. We've got a couple of replicas, so let's get in line. The first replica, respected representative Vesna Fabiančić-Krisanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76657	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Shakespeare, here's how we worked so hard and cooperated that I had to correct you first. I'm not a Crossman. I'm a Crossman. You've thought so much about your vice president that you don't even know her last name, but okay. So, in the previous National Council meeting, whether or not one report was submitted, this is irrelevant. I'm the vice president of the National Council and I want it to work permanently, not as campaignically as I said in my debate. Because there was enough reason for us to have working sessions, because as you yourself said, the action plan had a mass of measures that the executive authority or measure holders had to fulfil in the first and second quarter of 2013. If, as an executive supervisory authority, and the government has given me a positive opinion, it is likely that every government is responsible for not keeping an eye on whether it has the dynamics to have or not. We are this supervisory mechanism which, even in an additional way, forces the government, or its bodies that implement the action plan, to actually stick to this action plan. The public, of course, needs to be public. Was it before the same is irrelevant. And it's not true and I don't agree with you that the media isn't interested, because at every session of the National Council there was a large number of media. Twice a year by decision we have to file reports...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76658	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76659	I'd really like to apologize because it really was a lapus about your last name. I beg your pardon, and for this second part, I cannot accept your position because I continue to believe that the National Council was still fulfilling its tasks in 2013. There were no sessions except for this thematic session. But you and I have been to different meetings, you and I have been to different meetings, and you've been to each other personally. So I could write this report on 50, on 100 pages write it where we were all and where we were. ... No, we're talking about the expert. [[You can't hear it.]] Please! ... It'll be better for you, pals. [[You can't hear it.]] [[Adversity President: Let the president respond to the replica.]] Yes, thank you. [[/Intruder President: Get involved. You won't do it anymore?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76660	Thank you, too. Honorable representative of Peja Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76661	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, dear fellow Shakespeare, you're right. In 2012, we got off to a good start. I'm very sorry we didn't continue in 2013. Because if you look at Article 2. Decisions on the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme will show that, in addition to this passive part where the Council discusses, reports are discussed, the National Council is also given an active role to promote and direct the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and of national and other bodies, and other factors in charge of the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Programme and to propose measures to increase the effectiveness of the implementation of the National Programme. And you know that's what we were working on in 2012. As a member of the Council, I sent comments in order during the public debate on the action plan which lasted until 14.9.2012 and they were respected. At the Council meeting, we discussed an action plan and our remarks were respected and the government adopted a plan with 173 measures if I am not mistaken. In 2013, if there were no reports from the state authorities on at least the second half of 2012 we could discuss why they were not there. And I, when I look at the work of our body at the time our body works, which is in 2012 and again in 2014 I have for you as president of that body the very praise. And when we discuss this period we've been working on, then I'll raise my hand first to support this report. But you can't go beyond the fact that in 2013, we didn't do our job in either the first part or the second part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76662	Replicate response, respected Council President Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76663	Comrade coat of arms, you've been putting up with various initiatives at the council meeting. These initiatives went to the Ministry of Justice, went to the government, went to various other ministries. Then it does not stand that the national council, which is in addition to the analysis and the examination, has carried out its tasks in the action plan, did not take any further initiatives. If you are submitting a particular initiative, and it is sent through me to the Ministry, the Government, then it is an initiative given by the National Council regardless of what you are the author of this initiative. So, we fulfilled that obligation. So you can see in yourself, therefore, one apparent contradiction, and in the very action plan of 15 November 2012, it has largely been piled up with proposals and initiatives by the national council that went towards the Ministry of Justice. So, although we did not have thematic sessions but still acted strongly in the government's action plan and other action plans to include individual proposals and initiatives and observations from the National Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76664	Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76665	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Shakespeare, unlike your colleagues from the National Council, I support your report because first of all, there's not much logic in what they say as a reason why they don't want to support it. I don't think it makes sense that the government doesn't support the government's opinion they've always supported, and they've always supported it so far, and now here's the first time that they disagree with the government's opinion and the very issue of corruption. Because really one logical sequence is missing there. Because if we're going to stick to everything that's been said, then let's say by assessing the work of one of the Parliament's Committee on Transport and Communications that's been trying to hold one thematic session for two years, it hasn't been able to keep it right yet. And I don't think it makes sense for this body to give a positive or negative opinion on the work of its bodies in the sense that it's crucial or fatal. Because it doesn't make sense to me when we justify ourselves and say Parliamentarians work even when they're not in the assembly, and here you resent that you didn't work because you didn't hold a session. That's why MPs don't work unless they're here in the assembly. If you're trying to understand me. Or constitutional changes are under way, but we'll never vote them, and they're in progress. It's the same level of logic. Because you rightly warn that this national council is working, that you're sending objects to other bodies and that it all makes sense and that it doesn't have to be a committee session to decide that something works or doesn't work, and you've had board sessions. And I'm glad you didn't fall under the vision we had until you took that body to publicly accuse, judge and judge as former leader of Mr. Jovanovic. To make it a perception... That you did it in a better way and that you should get the majority support regardless of what I say trying to disagree with your government's opinion. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the intrusion.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-02-0.u76666	Thank you very much. Any answers? There isn't. We're about to conclude the debate. We will vote on the report when the conditions for voting are met. We would now stop with the plenary session today, we would continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. at the usual time with the fourth item of the established agenda of the Croatian Parliament for the 12th session. This is the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on General Use Matters, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 644. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow. Report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period from 11 July 2012 to 30 June 2013. The debate is closed. I give the vote the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period from 11 July 2012 to 30 June 2013 is hereby adopted." Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. What's the score? We have to do it again. Easy, easy. We'll do it again. We've got time. Please state who's for the proposed conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Okay. What's the score? I find that most of the vote is 105 votes in favour and 2 votes against the proposed conclusion. Thank you very much.
