ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86005	My colleagues and colleagues have a good day. We'll continue with the session and we'll continue with: 5. Report on the work of the Committee on Conflict of Interest for 2013; the Commission submitted a report on the basis of Article 30. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. You've received the motion for an act. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and will, in the introduction, explain the report by the chairman of the Commission, Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86006	Honorable MPs and MPs. The rules on conflict of interest have been introduced in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of strengthening the integrity, transparency, objectivity and impartiality in the conduct of public duties, as well as with the aim of strengthening the confidence of citizens in public authorities. The new Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest significantly improved the institutional and legal framework for the achievement of the task of the Commission's competence. To the extent that the Commission was first established as a permanent independent and independent state body whose members must not be members of any political party for at least five years prior to the submission of a candidate for the selection of this public office, nor shall they participate in political activities during the term of office. Although the transitional and final provisions of the new law, which entered into force in March 2011, provided for the election of presidents and commission members to be made within 90 days of the date of entry into force of the law, members of the new commission were appointed only at the end of January 2013. The description of the situation and the content of the topics covered by the Commission's work and competence in the past year stems from the fact that the new commission took office after a break for more than a year in which the commission as an institution did not act. In accordance with the provisions of the previously applicable Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, the Commission had 11 members. Of these, 6 members were elected from the ranks of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, so by disbanding the 6th convocation of the Croatian Parliament at the end of 2011 those members of the commission who came from the ranks of parliamentary deputies stopped their mandate in the commission and thus the commission lost the quorum needed to make decisions under its jurisdiction. However, even in this period since the entry into force of the new law in March 2011 and until the end of 2011, when the commission lost the quorum, I must say that because of the fact that the earlier council's meeting acted more as a committee rather than as a permanent body of the provision of the new law, it was considered and applied in a relatively small number of cases, and therefore the systematic practice in the application of the new law could not even be developed. The legal framework for the implementation of tasks from the Commission's competence has been partially amended following the decision of the Constitutional Court in November 2012 which abolishes some of the powers of the Commission. However, despite the abolition of certain provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, the Constitutional Court stressed the importance of launching the process of effective implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. The implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests in its essence raises the question whether officials in the conduct of public duty have adhered to the obligations and restrictions imposed on them by this law, whether they have maintained their credibility and dignity of their duties and whether they have maintained citizens' trust. The report I submit testifies that the level of familiarity of officials with the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and thus the level of compliance with that law in the last year was not satisfactory. Despite the logistic difficulties encountered in terms of administrative sub-capacitation of staff in the commission's office, then there is no necessary information tools and neither developed models under which business processes take place, the commission recognised that the priority strategic objective in the first year of the mandate was to achieve a positive shift in the number of cases resolved in order to insisting on the respect of this law and also in the positioning and building of the commission as a relatively young institution in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. After a long period of time during which the commission did not act to implement the full implementation of the new law and the achievement of its objectives, it was crucial that the commission made decisions and measures during which the official was still acting in public service and was still able to take certain measures and actions to comply with the obligations under this law. The Commission therefore acted in parallel with the resolution of the cases which were found and the cases which had not been resolved, and initiated the procedures resulting from the current events, believing that only a timely reaction could be achieved by that purpose which the commission must achieve in its work. In addition to the effective implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, however, the commission was aware of the needs and importance of building citizens' trust and self-communication as an institution. The Commission therefore initiated a large number of proceedings in the past year based on its own knowledge of the possible conflict of interest with the aim of determining and subsequently sanctioning identical infringements in order to establish a system of equal treatment for all and to establish the initial criteria for measuring the type and the level of sanctions. On the grounds of their own knowledge, the commission mainly initiated proceedings in the past year for the violation of the membership of officials in administrations and supervisory boards of commercial companies and for the failure to transfer management rights arising from shares in the ownership of commercial companies to the Commissioner, since such knowledge could have been obtained by a relatively simple comparison of the data contained in the property reports and those data entered in the court registers of commercial courts. During the last year, a total of 37 public sessions were held at which the commission took 118 decisions to initiate the procedure and 25 decisions on the non-starting of the procedure, with decisions on the non-starting of the procedure being made mainly because of the lack of competence of the commission. Of the total number of procedures initiated, approximately 1/3 were initiated on the basis of established, credible and non-anonymous applications, and around 2/3 of the procedures were initiated by the Commission on its own initiative. Last year, 66 measurement decisions were also taken to end the procedure before the commission. Of these, 58 decisions have imposed sanctions on officials for breach of the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Compared to the weight of sanctions imposed, I point out that last year's sanctions were targeted more easily and lower. The aim of the procedures implemented in the first year in which the full application of the new law began was to draw attention to the content of the obligations, restrictions and prohibitions arising from this law, as well as to advance understanding of the legal rules, but also to advance understanding of the very purpose of the existence of the commission, given that the powers of the commission are primarily imagined for the purpose of promoting good practice and only in parallel to repression. Through practice, created by its decisions by a new commission last year, it was also necessary to send a message that a conflict of interest identified as well as a violation of the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest does not have the same connotation as an incriminating crime. In particular, the violation of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest constitutes a violation of liability, a breach of credibility in the conduct of public duty, and it is appropriate that sanctions imposed by the Commission have less weight than those sanctions imposed under criminal proceedings and criminal law. In the first year of its term of office, the Commission gave relatively lower sanctions to officials in order to raise and to impose sanctions on them in parallel with the development of the practice of the commission and the level of sanctions imposed, in order to ensure that those officials who, despite the warning resulting from the proceedings already carried out, did not comply with the provisions of the law are also somewhat more appropriate and more severe. In particular, I would like to point out that even more progress has been made in the number of cases launched and solved in the past year in the number of opinions given. In the last year, the commission overall gave 201 reasoned opinions and indications. For the sake of comparisons, the available data show that all previous commissions brought together about 150 opinions in all previous years. It was during the days of opinion and of evidence whose number significantly exceeds the number of conflicts of interest procedures that the commission proved its primarily proactive and preventive role. The Commission gradually built a system of recognizable rules and standards, which define the way in which public duties are expected. Thus, the commission sought to dry ethical principles that the content in relation to the specific situation of life. Last year, the commission also conducted the education of officials at the level of local and regional self-government in a total of 8 counties. I would like to point out that certain members of the commission are involved in the work of the Section for the Assessment of Needs and Construction of Possible Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, but the Commission considers that quality proposals require time and thorough preparation, while necessarily resulting from experience in the application of the law which, for reasons I have already pointed out, has just begun in the last year. In the end, I'm obliged to say more about the registers. The principle of rule of law and the legitimacy of the legal order requires the determination and accuracy of the legal standard. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the legal norm must be made available to addressees and predictable to them so that those to whom the legal norm relates may know the specific content of their rights and obligations and thus be able to comply with their behaviour with what the legal norm requires them to do. Such accuracy and determination of the legal norm for the time being does not result if we are talking about the circle of officials to which the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests refers. The Commission shall be responsible, inter alia, for the establishment of the register necessary for the application of this law. The most important among these registers is the official's register. The establishment of the register of officials is one of the adopted but unfulfilled measures of the existing Action Plan, with the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. Due to the long period of inactivity and inaction of the competent state authorities, and by which I mean the fact that the Croatian Parliament has not acted in accordance with its obligation to provide the Committee with a list of persons appointed as officials within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the Commission has, in matters of its jurisdiction, adopted its own interpretations on what duties this law refers to when the procedure relates to a particular act of duty appointed by the Croatian Parliament. In doing so, the Committee was very aware of all the warnings given by the Constitutional Court on the limits of jurisdiction, overruled jurisdiction and on the usurpation of powers. However, given that the basic purpose of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is to strengthen the confidence of citizens in public authorities, the Commission considers that such trust cannot be expected unless the institutions act. The Commission therefore considers that, under the authority of that body which is responsible for the application of a particular law, it is implicitly contained and the authority of its interpretation. The Commission has defined the reasons and criteria in which it has acted in relation to the officials appointed by the Croatian Parliament through its interpretations which could describe the legal term of appointment in terms of officials and in order to give guidance between the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament on what should be managed when deciding whether a single appointment is, or whether a particular duty should be, within the meaning of the rules on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Opinions and, in particular, decisions taken in matters where the Commission has engaged in autonomous interpretation of the status of public officials should serve as a strong and inevitable incentive to be in the public interest, in the interests of Croatian citizens, and in particular in the interests of the officials themselves of the circle of those to which this law applies clearly. I believe that last year the Committee has proven its independence and impartiality, and that it is immune to the possibility of instrumentalising for daily political purposes. So I hope you adopt this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86007	Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, colleague Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86008	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. For the first time in 10, 11 years before the Parliament, there is a report which is not mere statistics and is not just a report on the work of one of the bodies that is legally obliged to submit its report, but is a quality report which is very much devoted to the state of the substance of the problems we need to make and the state of me of a significant institute of conflict of interest in the practice of application and consequences. This is one of the reasons why the Croatian Labour Club will also support this report, because it is therefore not a mere report of work but a problem in general. In the report, the Committee warns and rightly points out that in Croatia, the Institute of Conflict of Interest and the role of the Commission is still often misunderstood, not sufficiently serious and they have defined that we in the Parliament and all of Croatia should understand and treat the conflict of interest as a lobby of corruption. Why my court does not yet have enough social awareness about the importance of preventing conflicts of interest. Because there is no political responsibility. And I am convinced that only when the first or first, official or official at any level are relieved of duties due to a proven conflict of interest that only then, after the decision of the party or body behind the proposal and appointment, will this institute begin to be taken more seriously, taken and accepted as inadmissible behaviour. Social condemnation and zero tolerance of society. The Commission therefore considers that all the measures and decisions they make should have a social condemnation of unacceptable behaviour behind them. However, we are witnessing that a large number of officials who, during this reporting period or before, had a proven conflict of interest not only did not experience social condemnation, but won the next election either as candidates by name and last name or were listed by political parties in their lists and in the next elections. And how can we expect a social conviction if there is no political condemnation of such unacceptable behavior? A few years ago, I proposed amendments to the law, that a proven conflict of interest is a legal basis for the end of the term of office. And it was rejected. Afterwards, a provision entered into the law in the last term that the commission had the power to propose an impeachment or discharge from the duties of the official whose conflict of interest has been demonstrated, however, the Constitutional Court has put aside that part of the provisions of the law. These days, the current proposals are for Croatia's electoral legislation to introduce provisions on the ban on the running of those citizens who have the rightful verdicts until the end of the rehabilitation period, so this may be an opportunity to extend the topic to those who are in a proven conflict of interest aware that we will not solve the problem in general again because Croatia has a more serious problem how to solve problems with those officials who have already been elected, and in the meantime, they have not stopped their mandate by law enforcement, they manage the resolutions for which they have been selected from investigative prisons, receive full salaries and some have even been on the run before the Croatian judiciary. But what I want to check, just shockingly, is the fact that in March 2011, there was a change of law, it was time for the Parliament to choose a new commission within 90 days, so in June 2011, a commission was to be established under the new law. By the end of 2011, by February 2013, the Commission did not exist in this composition. What message did we send in the context of social condemnation and the treatment of the conflict of interest institutes in the fact that more than a year and a half of the Croatian Parliament did not execute the selection of members of the commission? Who's to blame? The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest does not prescribe deadlines or criteria of order of conduct, says the Commission's report. So it's about one normative void that requires the repair of the law. It is the first proposal or warning of a regulatory void in the law. Officials and reports on the property situation, in particular in the field of local and regional self-government, their memberships in administrations and supervisory boards of companies, boards of directors, institutions and transfer of management rights to companies, were almost the highest number of cases the commission dealt with. And they found that the most common cause of entering a conflict of interest was ignorance. How can someone who is an official be uninformed in the laws of the Republic of Croatia? Whether the lack of guidance, the commission acted not to accept ignorance as an excuse or a reason, so if officials are not governed by the laws, then we can hardly expect a social condemnation of citizens who are even less able to know and know these laws. The 58 decisions on suspension sanctions were made in 2013 and the amount of the suspension amounted to 294 thousand kunas of which 76,000 kunas could not be charged. Why? Because the law says it's about suspending the salary of the official he receives while he's in charge. If, in the meantime, he ceases to be an official and no longer receives salary as an official, or if he is a volunteer, he obviously does not come under the penalty of suspending his salary because he applies or withdraws from the general system of execution of fines. This is also the point of a normative failure that requires legal correction. So I don't understand how it could have happened that only in this monetary sanction is there such a gap that only the salaries of the officials are defined when it comes to fines. In 2013, the Commission gave a 201 opinion, an indication, and all convened before that 150. This is to be commended, and I hope that these opinions and the Commission's observations were respected by officials and that they were useful to those who read them and could learn something from it. What I'd like to ask and get a clear answer, IRS and I.D. 192 requests that only a small part or 92 has been answered, I don't know if I've written it wrong. I understand that the IRS is buried in many cases, but checking the data the IRS commission is asking about the property situation should be a priority. The report mentions, now watch this, that the Croatian Parliament has not responded to the Commission's call, the list of officials to which this law applies. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament did not respond to the Commission’s call to which officials in the Assembly apply this law. It would be very interesting, I would really like the commission to bring sanctions to the responsible person in the Croatian Parliament,...from pay for not answering the call. And a possible problem, and the president of the Committee said in the introduction that there was a dispute over interpretation appointed or appointed as an official. It is also an area because the law is not precisely defined in this, which requires legislative correction. The staff teaming of the office in 2013 was not good, I hope it was fixed in 2014. The technical equipment of the commission's office was not satisfactory and I'm asking if anything has changed this year and if these things are going to get any better? And I'll finish the next one. In its opinion in this report, too, and the report on page 13 states that the Ministry of Administration has formed an Expert Commission to assess the needs and to make possible amendments and amendments to the law. Therefore, the Commission itself points to the need for the law to be changed, complemented and clean, the government has clearly accepted such a position, and the President of the Committee said that these proposals, which will be made within the section with the ministry, want to be based on as much experience in the work as possible, but I noticed that 15 cases, 15 complaints or 12 have ended in the Administrative Court. 15 objects. It is of interest to how much the Administrative Court has resolved these cases which could serve as a good basis for proposing the revision of this law and, in my view, it would be doubtful that, by accepting this report, the Parliament still defines the deadline until the government should propose amendments and amendments to this law, so that the reports next year would not have to establish that there are 6 significant legal gaps, and in particular because of this, I am going back to the beginning so that everyone in Croatia would finally start to understand, interpret and apply the conflict of interest institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86009	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86010	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam President of the Committee, colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt that conflict of interest is a concept, as a phenomenon, perhaps not a lobby of corruption, but even in many cases one of the pillars on which corruption rests. In addition to the crime of abuse of position and authority, it is probably the most open space for corrupt acts to be converted into practice and it is therefore extremely important that we have received the first practically complete analytical report which is instructive of the commission which is now professional. There is no doubt that our practice has shown that the whole area that regulates this issue of conflict of interest was above all a cause for various policy initiatives and competitions, and then that the existing system is as well as a very solid basis for accusing whom the Commission is affected and to whom it harms. In this report, however, we find all the elements for closing puzzles or mosaics when talking about what needs to be done by the legislator to make this permanent, stable, transparent and smart. Practice has shown that if you start with a technical thing, and that's a pattern, we have a crazy solution. So the existing form that registers the property of the official is absolutely unusable. There are wrong categories, some do not say at all, and worst of all, must be printed manually, which means that the Commission must manually transfer the data to the database. So we live in the 21st century, and we still have a huge pressure on the Commission after each election, especially when thousands and thousands of forms come, the Commission almost has nothing else to do but input data into the database. So, from that first step, the application, the data input, we have a fundamental problem. Furthermore, existing solutions oblige the Commission to work only and exclusively in open sessions. Any debate on the initiative to initiate a process of establishing a potential conflict of interest is automatically interpreted in the public section as having already been completed. As soon as someone's name is mentioned under a particular application, part of the public immediately perceives it as soon as the commission puts it on the agenda, it is an eclectic conflict of interest and a done deal. This part of the public later does not follow what the commission has found, which concluded, what a solution it has made, remain that first impression, and that is a great burden on the Commission itself because practically the whole process is led almost as a public trial. The application of the regulation here is very important. In fact, this report also says that the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest in many of its elements is unclear, inconclusive, therefore unspeakable and as such represents legal norms that are not clear. What can a commission do under such conditions? Either apply a far-reaching liberal open approach, so very relaxedly apply provisions that are not clear or apply them very conservatively and consistently in the most conservative sense of the word that the commission has decided, first of all keeping itself from potential accusations that it pleases someone. But such a form of conservative application of an unscheduled regulation leaves a large number of concerns to the public. And on the other hand, he repeats the constant message to the legislator, please choose to change the rules. If, in 2011, three years ago, the Constitutional Court abolished one conditionally stated implementing act, believing that the commission had no right to adopt such implementing acts because it endangers the potential space of freedom and for officials, rather than having to do so by legislator in the law itself, and we did nothing in three years to change that law, what did we do then? A continuum of legal uncertainty, a continuum of space in which anyone can be repudiated for anything and force the commission to act on it under unspecified conditions. This report is a catalogue of remarks and suggestions to the legislator to perfect the regulation. Practice has shown in a whole series of examples that the law is obsolete, that there are several institutes that are difficult to implement, that there are a whole series of completely unclear provisions and that some provisions have to be interpreted so extensively that there is no more logic. What is the logic of calling officials who are members of certain bodies by law? If the Constitutional Law on National Minorities defines that national minorities are representatives of the Council of National Minorities, what logic does it have to ask these people why they are in this Council and to open up the area of debates whether they are in conflict of interest because the Council for National Minorities of Ipso Factors has the means to be shared with associations for National Minority Programmes. They have no alternative because it is their legal obligation to be members of the council. There's a lot of cases like that. By the law that is now in force, everyone appointed by the Croatian Parliament, even if the Committee for State Award is a state official, that is ridiculous. The commission warned the explicits not only that the legislator did not obey the Constitutional Court of 2011 but rather that we did not deliver the register of officials in time. The government did so, however, in a way that the Commission did not consider to be complete, so it sought clarification in this respect, or requested an indication of the authenticity of the submitted list, i.e. its correction or addition. But also this report warns us that it is necessary to further elaborate procedural provisions, to introduce possibly some new institutes such as the deadlines of conduct, the time-limits of implementation and the conduct of the procedure after the official has ceased to act in public service, as well as the introduction of certain changes in the way in which the sanctions are carried out by the Commission. The existing regulation, which is the case here and which reports on whose implementation this commission reports, implies, among other things, that members of the administration of state-owned companies should not sit on the supervisory boards of the parent companies which are the basis of these state-owned companies. It's completely illogical and they're all automatically in conflict of interest. So whose company is this? Who has been entrusted by the State through the competent authorities to manage and set up such companies? What would that mean? This makes it impossible for large systems to operate, by introducing new people who should be paid extra, and this is not about conflict of interest because the daughter company is fulfilling the interest of the mother company, which is why it was founded. Furthermore, when it comes to the definition of conflict of interest, there is no public, public, but only public, private. Is that really so? So isn't it possible from the level of the county and from the state level to achieve such a conflict of interest that will please a particular county? Yes, it is. We had such a case in Zagreb County where the president of the Croatian Waters Administration sat in the county headship. The county headship brought in the programme that Croatian waters adopted, so the same person was working together. The committee at the time said there was no conflict of interest because it is public, public, and in fact such behaviour has been damaged by many others regardless of the municipalities and cities that have had certain claims, it is primarily about the establishment of colleagues from Turopolje will know, the establishment of a water supply of Zagreb County, a phantom company that has never acquired a bonus but neatly lords of the springs of drinking water in Turopolje. In any case, there are therefore a whole series of issues why we in the Croatian People's Party-Liberan Democrats from here, from this pay phone we call on the government to immediately approach the amendments and additions of this law. We have already heard there is an expert working group of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in which the representatives of the commission also sit, discuss all these details that are controversial and finally it is time for the product of its presentations as amendments and additions to the law. Should we continue to extend our obligations established by the Constitutional Court in 2011 which determines the practice of 2013, there is no need. We call on the Government to propose amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and we will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86011	Thank you. Joseph Salapc, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86012	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow MP, I agree with you that you need to make a hasty change and go to changes and additions to this law for a number of reasons. Let's just remember the time when in Chapter 23 before Croatia's entry into the European Union we made this law at great speed, at great speed we tried to choose the commission, it was somewhere in 2011 and now it was only the first time we chose the commission in a way that I agree it was okay. And you need to give authority to the commission you got, that's where I agree. Also educate people at all levels, sometimes the official finds himself in conflict of interest that he doesn't even know it. And it also appears in the media or in the information shows of the central journals that it doesn't know it either. Well, then, one legal gap that happens in the commission's activities, and the officials they find, we need to get rid of it by law. I would like to remind you that the speed of Croatia's entry into the European Union required urgent legislation and, meanwhile, officials who were in the supervisory boards of state firms found a solution when the Government of the Republic of Croatia resolved them in the members of the supervisory boards... to act at all 8 months to one year after the law came into force one year back. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So by force of law, we meet in conflict of interest. So I agree that we finally have one whole law if we need to be new because the new commission working on cases has very much the experience where we should make a contribution to the Croatian Parliament and we MPs passing one real law that will be in all our directions and parts right because it is not a tangible thing, you turn out to be an evil person and you are wicked to break the law without even knowing it. Therefore, education, filling out legal gaps, new law and absolute implementation, I am giving full support to your debate and also to the Committee on Conflict of Interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86013	Goran Beus Richembergh reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86014	I agree with what you said and I'm glad you're joining these thoughts because there is no doubt that for a change of law we should have a broader consensus in the opposite we come to that area where someone will be accused of changing the law because of some of their interests. It is clear here that it is logical things that the Croatian Parliament must have sensitivity and understand its commitment and that is why we called on the Government to do this first part as soon as possible, which is to make amendments, amendments and additions to the law. So I call on all colleagues from both the HDZ and the HDZ and the SDP, all the other parties, over this post-consensus, this is an important issue, this is because it was also the subject of our negotiations, and it is already an important story about our credibility whether we as state officials are expanding or narrowing it down. Do we introduce clear legal norms or do we introduce like. Now's our chance to work it out. And I hope that we will all agree on the key things that we need to change in this law in order to make things better functionally, to resolve certain doubts and what is important to remove the logical traps that we have today and those that we may have brought quickly then, even though we are, there is no doubt about it and then warn that some things are too hard to put inside and that in that sense we should be more liberal or more affected with real, real situations. Because if, as a case may be, some government officials who represent the Government in certain matters cannot be appointed, for example, to a state-owned company, not even six months after the end of their term of office, then it is about preventing the Government from achieving the interests of the Republic of Croatia in certain matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86015	On behalf of the SDP club, colleague Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86016	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam President of the Commission, colleagues and colleagues. The problems of identifying conflicts of interest and managing conflicts of interest are among the most important elements of creating citizens' trust in the public sector and public institutions. The conflict of interest is the cornerstone of corruption, although it should not be mixed in itself with corruption. The existence or potential existence of a conflict of interest should raise doubts about corruption. So a good policy to prevent conflicts of interest creates conditions for a good anti-corruption strategy. An effective fight against conflicts of interest is key to combating corruption or conflicts of interest easily identified, it is easy to document them and it is easy to process them within democratic legal procedures. By contrast, the crimes of corruption require complex legal proceedings for investigation, proof, prosecution and verdict. In addition, the fight against conflicts of interest effectively prevents the serious damage that corruption usually causes. So the fight against conflicts of interest is the key to a successful fight against corruption. Any anti-corruption policy must place an equally strong emphasis on the fight against conflicts of interest, as well as on the fight against corruption and its consequences. And as due to the above-mentioned strong emphasis, it must be on the fight against conflicts of interest, and so this report should occupy our full attention and therefore this report should be seen in the light of both the current legal framework and the answers received whether the teamed commission has drawn the maximum from these frameworks. Of course this report is far more susceptible to analysis than previously because of objective circumstances. Of course, as my predecessor said, this report is a catalogue of suggestions that really show that there should be a consensus to improve the legislative framework and of course it has given many answers in the direction that still needs to be done in order for this independent state body to make its full contribution to the fight against conflicts of interest, to improving the policy of managing conflicts of interest and education. But we also believe that there are still some answers that we do not find in this report. And that is precisely what we heard from the President of the Commission, that, as citizens' trust in public authority and public institutions should be strengthened, there must be a strong confidence of citizens in the very institution of the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest, and therefore some answers in our opinion are extremely important. One of the questions we would certainly like to see, which we are asking here, and we would certainly like to hear or see in one of the next reports of the commission is how much commission deals with property cards annually. My colleague Lesar said that it is a good thing that this report does not have dry statistics and I agree that it is really good in terms of which it gives a lot of suggestions in which it should be promoted, but also certain statistics would be good to find in the report itself. What we would certainly like to know is whether, during the work of the committee in certain cases, a doubt has been identified or a corrupt act has been revealed and if such an object has been sent to UskoK and, if so, how many cases have been committed to UskoK. Madam President of the Commission, I believe that some of these answers will probably not be available today, but we believe that we will be able to find these data in the next report that you will submit to this House of Commons, but I believe you will be able to respond to the discrepancies of certain data. In addition to this report, it is shown, as you say at the end of the report, to summarise the presentation of opinions and decisions made in 2013. According to this summary in 2013, the report in matters of conflict of interest solved 223 cases, of which 16 cases from 2011, 13 cases from 2012 and even 194 from 2013. We have two questions from that data. The first question is whether all the old items were solved, given the proportion of the old items from 2011 and 2012 compared to 2013. The second part of the question concerns the comparison of this data to the 6th part of the Commission's report. On page 6 of the report, you state the number of pendings, with the number of 38 cases of conflict of interest which the commission took over from the previous call and with the number of cases, indicate the number of cases taken over. These data show that the oldest is the subject of 2010 and since it is not in the light of the opinions given and the decisions taken in 2013 the question is whether this means that the oldest subject in the commission's work has not been resolved so far. Is it possible that no case of conflict of interest from 2010 has been resolved so far and what is the criterion of not having criteria in order to resolve the case? Neither does the Courts Act have normative criteria in which cases will be dealt with in a orderly manner. Well, I guess the nature of things requires that the priority in solving is old cases, and in the conflict of interest, I don't think the subject of 2010 should be legally normised that the subject should have a priority in solving. This data further shows that you have taken over 15 items from 2011 from the previous call, and from the display of solved cases in 2013 it appears that 16 cases have been solved from 2011. How is it possible that you have solved more cases from 2011 than you have taken as you have writtenly established? As for 2012, you took 13 items and solved 13 cases in 2013, which could ultimately mean that there was one unsolved old case, if in 2013, we will not consider the old items and the one from 2010. Is that so and if it is, why is the unsettled oldest object unsolved and we can even say who is the name and last name behind the 2010 oldest case, if it is unsolved. What we would also like to see in the report, which is also some financial indicators, i.e. the Commission as a body of public authorities, has its own budget which, on certain needs, material costs such as this or such, spends these funds. We would like to see for what purposes and for what certain resources have been spent. Of course, what is encouraging in the fight against conflicts of interest is, as we have heard from the predecessors, and also from the chairman of the Committee himself is a huge increase in reasoned opinions and obviouss compared to previous years, which suggests that, however, if we insist on both fighting conflicts of interest and fighting corruption slowly, but surely the awareness of the importance of the management of conflicts of interest and the correct understanding of the purpose and role of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest is growing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86017	On behalf of the club of independent representatives of colleagues Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin. Comrade Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86018	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Committee for Conflict of Interest. I'm getting involved in this debate, and I've been trying to keep an eye on the President of the Committee. The debate so far has indicated that there is a legal vacuum that should be resolved in a dignified and objective way. But I wouldn't go so far into it without considering that it doesn't matter, it's important. But I would say that the President of the Committee, with the legal tools at her disposal, has drawn up a very correct report. What I would point to is that, apart from the legal norms that are important, it is also important to highlight the importance of ethical and moral standards in the work of the Committee. In fact, things happen to us that are obvious to the blind, and we do not react because there are legal procedures to which they can rely and justify their actions, or their inaction. So, we need this already in the Civil Forum of Croatia in 2004 stressed that Croatia needs root changes both in political and moral ethical norms. I therefore agree with the statement last days of the current president of Mr. Josipovic's state, which does not mean supporting his candidacy, but I suggest that he said that Croatia also needs institutional roots of change. Without changing the institutional provisions of Croatia, as he says, and I agree, he will not be able to get out of a crisis that she has gone deep into. So there is one task before this House, regardless of how constitutional changes will go through, to base our work not only on legal norms and regulations, legal regulations, but also on ethical, moral norms. Here I would quote an old Greek wise man who said, "For the future of the city, the rules by which citizens live are more important than the walls around the city." I also think that Croatia needs moral and ethical norms to get out of its crisis and not just the legal system. Further reflection on this subject will continue Mr. Damir Cain as we usually try to work at the Independent Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86019	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Representatives, that as we have heard this report is a more or less correct report. I will first quote a section on page 5, which literally reads that the administrative sub-capacitation of the Commission's professional service and inadequate logistics support in terms of the necessary IT tools for work were an essential element and one of the main problems faced by the newly elected Committee at the beginning of the mandate. I don't think this body is sub-capacitated, don't let God think that I don't think we need this body. We don't need it, though. But we also need independent other institutions starting with the DORH, one effective police force. One word of the service that will deal with corruption, which will deal with crime, which will deal with the security of citizens and certainly the continuity of institutions. Why did I quote this part on page 5, because the same page says that at the time of the entry into office of the newly elected members of the Committee in the Committee's office, which as a professional service carried out professional administrative technical tasks was employed by 8 employees, and this was the head of the office, the secretary, the administrative secretary, two experts and only three consultants, and one economic professional adviser, and two legal advisers. Only comparisons work in Istria we down have one famous Civil Society Foundation, and you know how many people work there? Seven. What are they doing? They're not doing anything. They even have spokesmen, there are employees of this foundation of people as a foundation for, say, one Alfred Nobel who assigns to the year I know 10, 15 or 20 Nobel Prizes and must study all the professional works in the field of science, medicine, politics, literature, economy and so on. I would also like to quote this on page 7 where it is literally said that during 2013 a total of 37 public sessions, the commission made 118 decisions to initiate the procedure to determine the conflict of interest and 25 decisions on the non-starting of the procedure. Of the total number of procedures initiated, approximately one-third of the procedures were initiated for non-anonymous applications submitted, and two-thirds of the proceedings were initiated on the basis of their own knowledge of the commission. Of the 118 procedures initiated in 2013, 66 decisions have been taken to end the procedure before the commission, and 58 decisions have given officials sanctions for violations of the law, etc., etc. What may be my biggest comment on this report is what when we talk about these conflict of interest procedures, then it's actually written about cases under the number of SI-37, SI-29, SI-8, etc., etc. and I think that each SI or M opinion of the Commission M-50, 63 etc., has its own name, has its own last name, and that, among other things, the public, or Parliament should in some way "debate" under the quotes, or at least I don't know how to get to know them. Among other things, it is said here on the side of the 10th Commission that in 2013, the Commission brought a 201 reasoned opinion and an indication. The comparisons for all previous commissions have brought together 150 opinions in all previous years. It means that the volume of work must have been incomparably higher last year than it was in previous years. Yesterday I learned, when we talk about these employees, I didn't even know about this data so precisely that, say, in the self-rule of my county, there are 1015 employees in public enterprises, plumbing, museums, etc., I guess I don't have the exact number, somewhere around 3,000, while on the other hand the state provides salaries only for employees in Istria, so it provides 7800 and some pay plus 1400 that work in the police. I'm just pulling a parallel with these eight people working in this institution that we're talking about today. I even dare say that today crime is literally at the highest level no longer available, for control, for control, for the public, etc. But no matter what, we are all aware that Croatian society is not only deeply divided but also corrupt. But that corruption from the top has moved to lower levels. I buy land, say, in the country for kuna or two kunas, urbanizing everything, reselling I don't know about 100, 200 or 300 euros. Even though this is not the biggest problem, there are a lot of bigger problems perhaps than that, such as rackets, such as inaction of state investments, etc., etc. The 15th page of this report states, among other things, that within the framework of the RESPO programme, the Commission took part in a comparative study on the subject of income reports and the property situation of officials in practice. That would be very interesting to see. On the occasion of the publication of that international institution, which contains a comparative representation of legislative institutional solutions. It is quite normal in Croatia for individuals with 16 000 kunas or 16 400 kunas to serve loans of over 800 or 900 thousand, but a clear euro. How? I don't know, but that's certainly possible. And that's why I think there's really some things to explore where at these lower levels and normally in these municipal and public enterprises, whether it's state-owned etc. Yesterday, today, I don't know for the next few days, we'll be talking about the Merzel case for sure. I'm pulling one parallel with Mr. Herak, but I can pull Ronchevic. Mr. Herak has been in prison for over 18 months, for five years or I don't know how many court proceedings, a man completely freed of any doubt. So what now? How do you rehabilitate a man after all this? We have the Merzel case, which is in the investigation, there's no indictment yet, but we have the indictments against a whole series of mayors, mayors or mayors. How the courts will ultimately rule remains to be seen. What if there's no charges? But I agree that we need to change the law in a way that people in politics have what is applied to an ordinary citizen, but if the courts decide otherwise, man in some ways needs to be rehabilitated even though his years can't be restored, and neither the functions and work he's been doing. In one word, we also have a lot of cases where the mayors of Istria are still legally fined, say prison for a year and a half, conditionally 3 or 4 years and no one, normally, anything. We see how the criteria simply differ from case to case, but we also need one comprehensive control, under the allegations of judicial control, clearly that I advocate the independence of the same, but some of our employees are highly politicized. So, to end, just one remark that I actually said, when these reports are being written, I think we should write about names, last names because the public and those names in one way or another are talking, finally, people aren't numbers, they're not letters, and I think maybe that way this report would be much more comprehensive and credible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86020	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86021	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Cain, you have asked a lot of questions in the debate that you have given in the meantime and the answer in your special, special way. Of course you've turned your attention to Istria and certainly and that's legitimate because you have the best field review, you've been coming out of that area for many years, now how many goals you've given, that's another question. Here, I have the best view of the terrain from my county, Koprivnica-križevska, Bjelovar-Bilogian and then I will pull the parallel just as you pulled several parallels, but not this time in the area of agriculture, but in the area of tourism. In June of this year, the tourist community published the results of that invitational tender to support undeveloped tourist areas and support... events and miracles, now in that part of tourism undeveloped Istria, a tourist under quotes, has received more than these two joint counties. That's part of it. And secondly, support from... events, imagine half the funds went back to Istria. Now I have the right to think loudly about how it is, whether there is any interest, conflict of interest future minister coming from Istria and I wonder out loudly whether what helped, whether it helps that at the local level of those political activities, whether it helped by accident something... that went there in Brussels, though I hold that perhaps you were a better representative because if you came there it would be just an event, it would be "People must trust us", it would be a camel if you performed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86022	Comrade Milinkovic, I know you're going through the replica to the impression, but don't do it like that. Don't talk about MPs like that. Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86023	Indeed, for Parliamentism in Brussels, it is an extraordinary pity that Mr Karamarko did not notice all your qualities. I think that would be real. No, it's really me, I mean, Brussels would really get on its feet, that would be, you could imagine what these discussions would look like. [[Invader Zgrebec: A colleague of Damira Cain, and for you it is worth it.]] But yes, exactly, I know Istria far better than you, Mr. Representative, as you know your county or your constituency better than we do, than I do. When we talk about these funds that went towards Istria, we should bear in mind that Istria is making one-third of the tourism income and turnover in the Republic of Croatia, so it is probably logical that out of those 25 million kunas, one third of the funds went towards tourist entities in Istria. Finally, out of one third of the tourism funds, I even dare say that far more resources go to the other from Istria, than Istria will ever think it can get them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86024	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86025	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Cain, you mentioned that officials turning agricultural land into... probably so in conflict of interest, probably from personal examples... when you were president of the Istrian County you have good experiences. What is evident is that you have not prepared yourself for this debate and that you have no idea what the Commission has done as a major step and at the end of their report clearly writes, in addition to the report the summary of opinions given, decisions taken in 2013 and the full acts in procedures, opinions and conflicts of interest are available and published on the websites. Here, look, there's your Mr. Jakovcic as a series of ministers, officials, state officials... with a full description of the situation and those deviating from the Law of Conflict of Interest which they have committed and the measures and penalties imposed, as well as those that have been released. If you had prepared yourself, you would have known.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86026	Comrade Djakic, you're on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86027	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Presidents of the Committee, colleagues and colleagues. So the Commission's decision-making report on the conflict of interest for 2013 is comprehensive, concrete and I think even very well drawn up with all the detailed descriptions, displays and we can be extremely pleased that after 10 years, this expert commission has happened which we consider to be even though because we have not brought it by consensus it would be even more credible for us HDZ representatives, but here was the opportunity and opportunity so it is difficult to find a consensus with those who have so many hands in the Croatian Parliament and feel that these important issues should not be negotiated, discussed and respected at all. In front of us in this report on the conflict of interest, which shows that in 2013 a total of 37 public sessions were held, the commission made 118 decisions to initiate proceedings in order to determine the conflict of interest and 25 decisions on the non-starting of proceedings. Of the total number of procedures initiated, approximately 1/3 of the proceedings were initiated on the basis of unanonymous reports submitted, and 2/3 of the proceedings were initiated on the basis of their own knowledge of the commission. Of the 118 procedures launched in 2013 66 decisions were taken to end the procedure before the commission. Of which, 58 decisions have given officials sanctions for breach of the provisions of the law. In the past ten years of legal development in the area of conflict of interest in the Republic of Croatia, it has been assessed by a number of international institutions that conflict of interest as well as the role and purpose of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest in practice and the conduct of those to which the rules on conflict of interest apply, but also in the general public, and remains often misunderstood and this is stated in the report. The conflict of interest should be understood as a lobby of corruption or as a situation in which corruption still does not exist but in which there is a corrupt risk from which a corrupt action may arise, and covers all those circumstances in which private interest may affect the decision to act on public duty to the detriment of public interest, even if it is ultimately such a decision for the benefit of private and public interest at all, and whether there has been any adverse consequences in the conduct of public duty. Starting from the fact that during the conduct of public duties, any official may have a situation in which his private interests will be in conflict with the public when it comes from the fact that any conduct of public duty in the nature of things is linked to a certain corrupt risk. The commission draws, I don't know where, but it draws evidence of such a claim whether all people who act on public duty are merely the basis of this nature of corruption should also be defined in the law or in the rules, so I don't think it's so well defined in the report. The fact that officials are seeking the opinion of the Commission on a possible conflict of interest should be considered to include such claims in official documents i.e. to define everything by amending and supplementing the law so that there are no unknowns and there will be no wandering or false interpretations. The law governing the conflict of interest establishes a system of rules or a system of different obligations, prohibitions and restrictions preventing conflicts of interest or its appropriate resolution. We see that in the 58 decisions in which in 2013 officials were imposed sanctions on the suspension of a part of the net salary,... in total 58 decisions 294 thousand kuna sanctions were imposed, of which 76 thousand kuna were not charged, since officials who were not paid the fines were not paid. And I think that there is also a need to propose amendments to the law so that what has been redecorated, and at that time in the conflict of interest, would be remunerated from personal accounts, whether the official or the club thinks so, behaves further or not. The report highlights several major problems facing them in dealing with them. In addition to the failure by the Croatian Parliament to provide the Commission with a list of duties to be appointed and confirmed as officials within the meaning of the law, the list provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia was not accurate and complete, and one sanctioned official was challenged in a running administrative dispute which has not yet been completed. The Commission requested from the Government of the Republic of Croatia an indication of the authenticity of the list provided as well as its correction or addition. At the request of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Commission has not yet received an answer. Here you can see as much as the Croatian Parliament and as the Government of the Republic and as much as we want to protect some of the officials from being evaluated by the Commission and not supplying what is necessary and necessary for the commission. I think it is inadmissible for both the Government and the Croatian Parliament to behave in this way. President or Croatian Parliament Presidency. In addition to difficulties in defining the behaviour of officials in terms of certification or appointment laws by the Croatian Parliament, the Government or the President of the Republic of difficulty in defining the circle of officials, it is also a provision for officials to be considered as directors of agencies, directors of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as director of the institution appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In light of the circumstances set out above, the Commission considered in 2013 the items which concerned precisely the persons whose status as officials within the meaning of the law arises or should result precisely from those provisions of the law, for which the competent national authorities were obliged to submit a credible list to the Commission. With a firm belief that the proactive preventive action of a commission whose importance has been highlighted in the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the adoption of the law, neither the objectives of its adoption can be achieved if, because of the absence of a list of acting officials, the Commission fails to act in those situations in which public interest and, in particular, to preserve the confidence of citizens in public authorities, the institution requires a concrete reaction. Therefore, by interpreting that the power of the Commission to implement the law also contains the implicit authority of the interpretation of that law, it has initiated and implemented procedures in which, in response to prejudge, a legal question, it was necessary to take a position and to interpret whether it was a person whose public duty falls within the scope of the law and the jurisdiction of the Commission. So in the manner described, the commission acted in the case of the Director-General of Croatian Television, in the case of members of the Council for Electronic Media, in the case of members of the Competition Protection Council, in the case of members of the Governing Council of HINA and in other cases, in the case against the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Culture and the Director of the Police and all those officials were punished. The question now is where there is a further sequence, whether that punishment was enough for them to really be at their posts without conflict of interest and whether they removed all that was necessary. It should continue to monitor those who have been punished in order not to come under further circumstances away from the Law of Conflict of Interest. The Commission sought to define the reasons and arguments to describe the legal term of appointment as officials so as to give guidance to the competent authorities and the criteria to be taken into account when assessing whether individual appointments were considered to be appointed in the sense of officials. Such interpretation within the scope of the law on the conduct of the procedure under its jurisdiction, in particular as regards the conduct of proceedings on conflict of interest, has been decided by the Commission on account of the long period of inactivity of the competent state authorities and the fact that, even after a 10-year legal normation of the area of conflict of interest, the circle of conduct of public duties to which the law is not precise and clear. Such a situation, in the assessment of the Commission's footings of the fundamental rule of law and of legal certainty as well as those of public officials who are not sure of their legal status in the sense of the bounds of the application of the law, shall be permanently kept in suspense whether their conduct is legal. The commission also took the risk of criticism, attitudes and assessments in these cases as well as criticism over the consequences caused by this. Opinions and, in particular, decisions taken by the Commission in matters where the commission has taken part in the autonomous interpretation of the status of public officials should serve as a strong and inevitable incentive to be in the public interest and in the interests of Croatian citizens, and in the interests of the officials themselves, the circle of officials within the meaning of the law should be clearly defined and written. The Croatian Democratic Community club, with what I have already highlighted, will support this report and thinks it is very good and needs to move forward as soon as possible to amend and supplement the law so that everything is defined and that it is no longer possible to objectively interpret certain provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86028	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86029	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam President of the Commission, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin with what is the basis for the work of the commission, the basis for the work of the commission which plays a special and important role and whose composition is decided by the Croatian Parliament, which is the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, which was adopted as we know in 2011. It was about this law here in this present part of the debate on the thesis, which is the opinion that we brought it quickly in 2011 under the pressure of the European Commission to complete the negotiations. I personally disagree with the fact that we passed this law in a regular procedure by discussing in detail in the government, but also in the Ministry of Justice and in other ministries as well as in the Croatian Parliament. It was a very hard law in certain parts and in the treatment of the course of corruption, and then, above all, the conflict of interest because it was the year in which we faced ourselves then and as a government and as a policy in general with the announcements of the process for corrupt crimes, so one advance, one tsunami, one extremely difficult announcement of everything that could happen. And we deliberately and consciously, very consciously passed one hard law. And as you can see from this report but also as some parts of this law are known, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia abolished in 2012. There has been a lot of talk here so far and especially now in public and especially before returning to the parliamentary benches of a representative who won her term in the 2011 elections, but I remind you that the Constitutional Court has just abolished the provisions of this law that concerned and the possibility of resolving or calling for resignation, which is why the mechanisms that we are currently discussing have been envisaged. And when we ask questions as to why someone can, why someone can use the legal powers until we change the laws will be so, until eventually we can consider additional provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which says that everyone is innocent until a judicial verdict can prove guilty. I agree with all those who consider it, and this was followed by the 2011 Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, that for officials we must introduce uninterruptedly very clear, precise, firm and firm rules. And since the Constitutional Court abolished some of the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests in 2012, I believe that we should immediately initiate proceedings or draft a new law or supplement the existing law because the abolition of several provisions in the existing law is, of course, causing a certain imbalance. It's always like, if we think of the law as a wall, a solid wall that's walled from bricks, if we pull one from this side, one on the other side comes to imbalances, so to the loss of static. Therefore, I think we could have already started or amended the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest or the adoption of a completely new one. This report that we are discussing today, which the commission has submitted, certainly offers to us representatives of the good guidelines, of course also to the Government, but Parliament and MPs can change and pass laws at their own free will. So we do not have to wait for the government to serve us new amendments or additions to the law or new law, but we can do so ourselves here in the Croatian Parliament, so we are authorized to propose and can, based on the guidelines we have received from the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, do so. The report mentions, of course, what we all know, so these are the failures of the Croatian Parliament itself, since the appointment of the commission, it is one huge gap for which we are all responsible but of course the most responsible ones who have the majority, but also the establishment of the register of officials, so we should not push too much into the chest, but we should ladies and gentlemen join the work. So the time has matured in our opinion to accept jobs on a new law that will be in line with all the experiences we have experienced so far, but also with experience in the work of the commission that we evaluate well and effectively. Of course, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest must work within a firm framework of fundamental principles, which is professionality, ethics, commission must work without prejudice, therefore equally towards all, according to officials, members of all political parties, independently, I have already said absolutely and completely impartially, taking into account, of course, any possible consequence caused by the fact that it is publicly debated that it is good, but very careful and very precise and always in accordance with the applicable laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. He said to me, Mr. Representative Beus Richembergh, that when someone is mentioned at that committee session, it is public, that he is permanently publicly marked, and that is a fact, but of course it does not only oblige the commission but also obliges all officials to take care of the laws, the Constitution, to inform themselves, and therefore, in this sense, we especially want to highlight as extremely positive all those activities of the commission that went towards informing officials. So making guidelines and instructions after the local elections last year, we think it's an excellent job, as well as conducting the education of officials. Madam President of the Commission, I suggest that you may consider, I very seriously suggest a single education in the Croatian Parliament, so the officials in the Croatian Parliament, because I think it can really be useful and that this kind of education can be used in our debates, too, because every debate in the Croatian Assembly of each MPs and MPs must be justified and the sea, I repeat, be supported by the laws. It is no shame to admit that some things a man may not understand, that he does not know them or misread them, and that is possible when we talk about preventing conflicts of interest. And yet another interesting thing, so 294 thousand kuna sanctions were said last year, but 70 thousand of them can't be charged, it's also an interesting piece of information that I'm not going to have to talk about, given what's going on, but it's a good guideline for our work in the future and for, I repeat, possible amendments and additions to the law. Here, in the shortest of times, we consider this report to be good, very clear, precise, interesting, informative. I am sure that many of our voters, therefore citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, will reach, I recommend that they read the report, that in the end and through the report they understand what their rights are as citizens of the Republic of Croatia who pay taxes and who ultimately pay each official and every official. So we'll accept the report, of course, with the recommendation that we start making new regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86030	Thank you. Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86031	Honored Madam President, colleague Kosor. Well, you said that a lot in terms of demagogy and in terms of promoting your personality by showing yourself as infallible and the world to some person who was never in any conflict of interest, let alone in the position that she had signed something without knowing what she had signed it was bad. It bothers me a little bit, but it doesn't bother me that much. It's our history and part of our folklore. But you know what bothers me? One general civilization science and moral, let's say, the question of your debate that I seem to be the only one here who's reported to react to. Well, I'm not estimating anything. [[Stupid Zgrebec: You do not have the right to assess how your colleague discussed it.]] I have a replica. I have a replica now, and the replica needs an introduction of Madam Vice President. [[Intruder Zgrebec: You assess how she argued and what, how she acted.]] I can't do that right now as well as I can on the parliamentary issue. You have an opening minute, then a question at the end and don't teach me what to do and how to speak within. Give me back the time you took from me. So, Mrs. Kosor, you're the one who questioned that, you said it was in our Constitution, that everyone was innocent until proven guilty. Well, it's not from the Croatian Constitution, it's still the foundation of Roman law. And we have no right and no one can change that. I'm looking for a good committee for officials, you're doing great. Let's fix it, we'll fix it. But a representative cannot have less rights than any other Croatian citizen. So he can have more than one word of obligation, and he can't have less right. As far as we're concerned, what every Croatian citizen has, we can't have less Mrs. Kosor. And I'm surprised at that logic that we should be abolished by that right. And then who would you judge or us in the Parliament? Who would that be? Well, the court judges, the only way a court can do that is if we confess this country to a verdict that someone is guilty. Until the court makes that decision, everyone is innocent or has no law or no state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86032	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor. Comrade Dujmović, turn off the microphone, this Marasović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86033	I'm not going to rephrase the predecessor, but I'm just going to say for the public, and the fact is that the MP in question is constantly trying to provoke the moment I'm saying that he didn't understand much either, he didn't want to understand, he didn't hear. But he didn't understand clearly because he had no knowledge, and what he understood was completely wrong and really, in an illegal way, interpreted it. I repeat, Madam Vice President, what I said a few months ago about the provocations of MP Marasovic, of course, I will not react, and I am fully aware of why he is doing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86034	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86035	Dear colleague Kosor, I agree with you when you evaluated this report by the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest. It certainly reflects with its scope, with its details, reflecting the situation in Croatia, reflecting not a good situation in Croatian politics. And the Committee actually took one step forward with its reactions, took down a part of the policy, took the veil off the policy, and talked about it the way we should talk about it. You're absolutely right. I agree with colleagues who talked about the person being so long as it was not determined that she was innocent and that's where we should take the debate to see how to solve it. Just before I talked to the press about the subject, and there were shared opinions as well. They say, what will happen to the agent against whom an investigation is being conducted on the basis of a false report? He's losing his career, all right political practice, and after four, five years, it's been determined that this person isn't guilty. The court shall deliver such a judgment. We need to be very careful here. But I'm sure we should sanction those under quotes because we're not a court. There should be parties more hearing and more moral values.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86036	Jadranka Kosor, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86037	Thank you very much. Well, of course, it requires the opening of a reasonable discussion of a very, very cold head. So, on the one hand, we always have and I know how terribly unpopular it is when we tell people that we politicians have a constitution on the one hand that clearly says that everyone is innocent, so until it's proved to them by a judicial verdict. So, the presumption of innocence is a constitutional category, so much higher than legal, and the law had to implicate it. And on the other hand, that sense of impotence, injustice, terrible injustice, and the fact that there is no public condemnation. Many times we have talked here about the fact that many officials have been elected at the local level, both with criminal charges and with judicial, first-degree rulings, and on the duties of mayors, mayors and so on. Therefore, some of whom tails have been pulled publically have been chosen, so they are now facing processes, etc. And on the other hand, we have these cases that Mr. Caine also spoke of as officials who were both detained and tried and who were completely freed of any guilt. But they and their families are permanently marked for life and beyond because they are officials of the same kind as humans. It's something we should open up a reasonable debate and bring some kind of code. So at some point when a procedure is launched, what then members of all parties must do by a certain point. This can be regulated by law, of course, but so that we don't blame each other and that we want to protect our own and that we want to crucify others.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86038	On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86039	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mrs. Oreshkovic. I will, before I begin to discuss this report, quote several and inscriptions and a few sayings that I have heard from our citizens, but above all, I would quote what is written on the temple of the old democracy of Dubrovnik, the Dubrovnik Republic in which the prince was elected for a month, only for a month, and above the entrance of the Prince's court and today, there is a clear sign on the Latin overlaying of the audience girls, which in the translation would mean forget privately and take care of the public. An inscription that's completely up-to-date today. And it wouldn't be bad if it stood on all state institutions and also at the Croatian Parliament, above all the doors of the Croatian government, ministries and all the others. The second quote is a quote from our late political immigrant Bruno Busic, who also has elements of some common language that I will try to leave out but in general I will say that quote in my own way. And it says what happens when we get free he writes Serbian slavery and we create our Croatian state and he says you'll see how ours is stolen. And the hardest part is, this sequel is very important when our people steal us and sell us to world macro-balls. They'll come after us like birds of prey from all over the world, how can they save us from ourselves then? This is exactly what is happening these days within the framework of the entire Croatian state policy. And we all know what this is about. This particular quote actually corresponds to one policy regardless of the title and the composition of the government, I speak in plural, the Republic of Croatia. And now about the commission. A friend of mine, a fellow doctor said a saying, is similar to that of the prince's court, and says that in Croatia there is a principle, listen, you to me myself. And now the work of the commission. It is said in one of the sentences in the opening section that the Commission for a decision on conflict of interest as one such body can therefore be reduced its results unless there is also a clear political will and public condemnation of any form of corruption but also a public condemnation of any identified conflict of interest that precedes it. Is it true that the Committee for Conflict of Interest is considering something that is introduced in corruption? Or is it already an act of corruption when there's a conflict of interest? So, the Committee for Conflict of Interest is some kind of predecessor for actually this sentence for the DORH institution, BUSKE, etc. Is it a role or is there a thin red thread, it would be English to say Hajdas Dončić border line, so the border line, is there a border line between what the Committee of Conflict of Interest is studying and what is interested in both the DORH and USKOK themselves? Is there therefore a interference of jurisdiction in that case? Or is this all that the Committee for Conflict of Interests solved in 2013 actually the subject of discussion in the DORH and USKOK? Or will the Commission's decisions remain only on committee decisions, not going further, as the State audits say? So, the State Audit finds something, gets a negative assessment from the State Audit but there are no further procedures according to the mayors of the municipalities, the mayors who get a negative assessment during the State Audit. I see that the lady listens very carefully to the president of the committee and she agrees with that, and she will tell us later, that this thin red border line between what DORH should do and the BOOK and the Commission itself is very foggy. Those who have received to say the penalties of the Commission for conflict of interest do they care only about that or the DORH, the BUSKO and the other repressive authorities have therefore, through the decision of the commission, in fact in some sense evidence that they were corrupt acts? So, for example, it says in this same introductory section, that conflict of interest should be understood, therefore, and covers all those circumstances that private interests can affect the decision-making of public duties to the harm of public interest, even if it is ultimately such a decision for the benefit of private interests, and to the harm of public interest at all. Here, we have fresh examples when the entire public Croatian, and especially those in the Neretva valley protest, rebel against the Plomin C thermal power plant and against the Plomin C thermal power plant, on coal. It's against public interest. Nevertheless, and against the monetisation of highways, the government nevertheless implements such decisions. Is there a conflict of interest? Is that covered by a conflict of interest? HZ Cargo, the sale of HZ Carg, the destruction of HZ Carg to the main buyer of HZ Carg, is unfortunately not our citizen, Mr..., was imprisoned in Romania because of corrupt acts, has been imprisoned in Romania. What about the negotiators who negotiated with him in the Republic of Croatia? Where are they? He says one of those says... when it comes to budgets, so, nocturnal, nocturnal terrain, slippery terrain. It's just... when it comes to HZ Cargo and a series of other things. In..., my example in Slavonski Brod, given the political consolidation of forces, so I must say clearly and loudly, it is so, it is not a lie, that the SDP is in coalition with the mayor and then to manage the water line there are two water directors, one from the SDP, one from the mayor's political option. I guess there's one for the plumbing, and the other for the drain or the sewer, I don't know how they split the stakes in it. Is it also the subject of an investigation into conflicts of interest? Do the citizens of Slavonski Brod also have to pay two salaries for 2 directors in order for the political consolidation of forces and relations in Slavonski Brod to be satisfied politically? Why? For what? And finally, there was talk here about removing the immunity of our MPs, and then, after a great deal of investigation and other actions carried out, it was proved that the application was false, that the man was therefore innocent, who would repay, pay, destroyed integrity and personality, and all of what, as a yet public person actually, to say, follows us in public action and in public action. It is true, as someone here has said, that the Committee for Conflict of Interest must act professionally, ethically, independently, impartially and publicly, but also as stated in the text itself, proactively to prevent the knowledge of those who might find themselves in conflict of interest, to prevent such an act of entry into conflict of interest, and therefore support the initiative to carry out educational seminars on all segments, not only in the local, therefore regional plan, in connection with conflicts of interest, but also at the level of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, first and foremost the ministries, and then the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. And something else that may not be written here, I am personally satisfied with the careful, but not because of the timid, so not evaluating, but by the careful taking of the views of the Committee for the Conflict of Interests which I have heard of and which I know have been made, but also by really careful attitudes. Because otherwise, there would be this collapse of integrity and dignity, some individuals' dignity, as it happens when it proves innocence or the guilt of certain political factors. In fact, the commission did act cautiously and responsibly. In addition, it says here that the speed of the procedure, 15 days after the application, is a decision and I will ask the Commission to and within that time limit, so that this deadline is maintained, if any, and that all decisions of the Commission as it has been so far can be made public and that that speed to which the Commission may receive all relevant data shall be 15 days. On the very report on how many cases were solved, I would not, we all know, therefore, because of the perhaps public opinion that the Commission had received 59 pending cases after the draft groundwork, that in 2013, it had brought 201 reasoned opinions and indications, and that in all previous years it had given a total of 150 opinions. I am convinced that as this report shows, the number of cases in conflict of interest will grow, but I am also convinced that perhaps even these words that I said at the beginning as the inscription from the prince's court and what Bruno Busic owed us with his text will still find some... in ours, not to say, the situation where it really shows how you will be when we get free and when ours start to steal. We are now in the EU and we see here in this report all co-operation, so the Committees with bodies..., therefore at the same level and at the same level, with bodies... exists in the EU and let us hope that as members of our people and those chosen we listen to both those words and Bruno Busic and those words written in Latin in the Prince's Court, and it might be good to have under the Latin inscription on our team as the Prince's Court writes in Croatian. So to write forget privately and take care of the public because our people feel very well that it is not so in the vast majority of cases, starting from now on, I won't name names so that someone won't call me apart in the name of one party or another party or parties, but really whether we're going to start living once, so that this Committee of Conflict of Interest is one of the watchers who will constantly burn orangely and that we will all, starting from me and further worry about not getting into such a situation, so that our people don't spit on us and publicly say the Parliament needs to disband, so the people discuss us. There's no positive rating for anyone, no pass. They say there's no MPs, and they're getting paid. Is it a conflict of interest, and they're getting paid. Is this a conflict of interest? And so I'm defending it by the fact that there are committees, that there's work there and others not only here in the assembly but it's insurmountable. They're watching it, they see it here, and there's 40 of us here today, and it's supposed to be 151. I will not go on, mostly this report will be accepted by Mrs Oreshkovic, and I hope that your commission will continue to work this way and that in the next report, perhaps, given your work and the general climate of our people and the general opinion of our people, there will be less cases in the consideration of your commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86040	Now let's listen to the replicas. First Frane Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86041	Thank you. My colleague Grubisic, for the sake of accuracy and precision, I must correct the saying that you said is located at the entrance of the Prince's court "Brown the privatorum of the public girls" is not above the entrance of the Prince's court but above the entrance to a room inside the Prince's court, just so we don't send the wrong information. But the message is clear and I think everyone agrees with her. Secondly, you said you didn't know where the border line was between what the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and the issue of corruption is dealing with the State's Attorney's Office and any other bodies. I think it's visible from this report, I believe you've read it carefully but you may have missed out on your opinions and solutions from which it's clear that this committee is very up-to-date everywhere where they think it might be about corruption and that it's about violations of some laws to pass on materials, forwarding the State's Attorney's Office to further proceedings. So this commission also works in this respect one job which is very responsible, which is that its knowledge of where could possibly lead to corrupt acts that this knowledge is being forwarded, as we can see in the solutions that passed on certain solutions to the State's Attorney's Office and to further action is being referred to in this procedure. I think that this procedure is clear, of course that conflict of interest does not mean automatic and corruption, it does not mean, however, that, of course, there can be a first step towards corruption immediately, and in that sense, the commission rightly decides and sends the materials further to action. I also agree with the fact that there should be a broader discussion of the rules and I think that every official who first entered a certain duty that should also get the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, to get to know her precisely with everything... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86042	Thank you. Replication response, respected Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86043	Thank you very much, Mr. Matušić, given that you are a Dubrovnik man who is clearly aware that the location of this inscription is much better than I am, but unfortunately there have been many things happening in Dubrovnik which are subject and commission but also repressive bodies such as DORH and USKOK. Unfortunately, it doesn't work on Dubrovnikers either, so we have a lot of things in Dubrovnik starting here. The Constitutional Court has abolished the decision and the law on the Society of Dubrovnik's antiquities and so on, let's not go back to the past. As far as the work of this committee is concerned, I would like the work of the commission to actually be in some continuity towards the DORH and USKOK when that clear commission decides that it is criminal acts that someone has committed, with clear knowledge that this is done knowingly in that direction. Finally, it would be good if the Committee for Conflict of Interest when entering the Croatian Parliament or forming a Croatian Government to share the brochure on what is a conflict of interest would be very good. That's a very good suggestion I accept in your replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86044	New replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86045	Dear colleague, you quoted Bruno Busic, I quoted the same text several times, but those better acquaintances of the works of Bruno Busic said that it was never proven that he wrote it, but whoever wrote it well wrote it and it was a good analysis, it was a good prognostic. We've always been blamed for all the troubles that have been happening to us by others, and now the question is how to save us from ourselves. You spoke well, you noticed a conflict of interest of power with the people, means conflict of people and authorities. Is this a conflict of interest? It is certainly one conflict, but it exceeds the powers of the commission and it is certainly for discussion in the Croatian Parliament. If you remember, there was a dispute over the election of Mrs. Oreshkovic at her post today. It was not meant to be, that it was the right person in the right place because today we hear praises, and the praises are fully justified because the work carried out by the commission is exemplary. It's absolutely certain that you can't put a sign of equality between the commission and courts because jobs are far more complex but you can work principle, quite certainly speed and determination but also just... work, commitment to the work carried out by the commission that the courts that are catastrophic in Croatia can be seen in the principle of work on the commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we don't wait, unfortunately, for the decisions of the committee too long. Unfortunately, the commission made decisions, and thus the commission made a decision on the Croatian Chief Director of Radio Television in conflict of interest, he promised to resign if the commission made such a decision, however, he did not keep his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86046	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86047	Thank you very much, colleague Vuksic, in fact, for supporting your replica, for supporting what I said in my debate. And given this support that you have expressed and the support of the commission that I have expressed, I would not really like to comment much, but this with regard to Croatian television and the director-in-chief of Croatian television, the public expected for so long, given the importance of the function of the director, the director-in-chief of Croatian television, the outcome of the work of this commission. And so I'm surprised that we don't speak a word of this at our Croatian Parliament either in public or anywhere. All of a sudden, something's gone silent like that thing that Bosna whispered, but we're not going to talk about it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86048	Replica, the respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86049	Thank you very much. Your colleague Grubisic spoke about the intellectual legacy of Bruno Busic, I would add that he was not a prognostic but was a thinker and visionary. And I don't dispute his legacy as opposed to others. Well, because you don't even know today, we're in a big mental prison in Croatia today and for that. You were talking about your model that you said was imposed in Croatia "you, me, yourself", so it is certainly an attack on Croatia. But we have attacks both from the outside and from the inside. You were talking about insiders, the one on the outside we defended, and this one on the inside we haven't even noticed yet. And actually you inside... As you said, domestic traitors or Quislins would privatise whatever exists in Croatia, whatever institution exists and would privatise the police to protect them in their criminal acts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why it is undeniable that in Croatia, there is a way of dissipating with the economic mind. And proven, but confirmed that Croatia cannot without suicidal economic moves. That's why we're in this situation today. And the state is an identity phenomenon and it needs to be protected and protected and only can be done through the protection of institutions. If, with the help of those who leave the minister's post in state-owned companies and privatise them with them, we will not defend the state or institutions, they undermine the foundations of the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86050	The replica matches Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86051	Thank you very much. Mr. Maric, I didn't say that Bruno Busic was a prognostic, but someone in the replica said, so I didn't say it either, nor do I doubt what he said he said. But someone else here in the replica said it wasn't safe who said it. So I did not bring at all the credibility of the statement by Bruno Busic and that the works that are being done today in Croatian politics and even before in, I will not speak of any, nominate the Government, that there are both elements of the high treason and the undermining of the foundation of the Croatian state, and that is quite clear to anyone who thinks. Ivo Andric, now I'm going to quote someone who's a little further from Bruno Busic once said that a people who have an alien administration or a poor own administration are beginning to think irrationally. Isn't that what happens to us in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86052	The last replica of Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86053	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Grubisic, my replica goes in this direction as you have stated and on several occasions it is here in replicas of this spoken in the wrong understanding of the reach and content of decisions on the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and you have asked it in terms of whether any action in terms of persecution ceases there. Of course, my colleague Matušić said here that the state's attorney's office, since the decisions of the public attorney's commission are available at all times and may continue to be prosecuted when justified. However, that is why I have responded to the replica because this report says, and here we can all agree that each conduct of public duty has a certain corrupt risk and that conflict of interest is the lobby of corruption itself. And because of this, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest has a double function, on the one hand, concerned about the implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, but on the other hand, there is this educational function that warns all officials who are on the occasion that their private interest comes before the public interest especially in those parts where it is legally not resolved to instruct them not to come into this situation because the situation here can be extremely dangerous. 'Cause like someone said, it's better that three guilty people get away with it than an innocent man gets convicted. So, in this sense, we need to understand the role of the commission, and in particular here it is emphasized, and I particularly welcome that as much education as possible for people to actually understand and when they are accidentally in conflict of interest that it should not be so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86054	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86055	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I said, you're saying that the Committee of Conflict of Interest is a lobby like Dante, there's a lobby of Dante's hell that says "leave hope to everyone who comes in here."". It would also be appropriate for the Committee for Conflict of Interest to be in some sense in the very sense that it is anti-corruption. But I also stressed that the Committee for Conflict of Interest made its decisions very carefully and responsibly during 2013. And let me tell you about the lobby and the very room that follows after that, it's the same as that folk or stealing or holding a ladder, it's the same thing. Been on the board of directors or the board of directors, and allowed the crime that occurred from the administrative structures of a company or a state firm, that's the same thing. The lobby or the room, if you get into the Committee of Conflict of Interest, then it's very likely that the DORH and the BREAK are in order and should be after that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86056	We're moving on to an individual debate. A respected colleague, Goran Maric, signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86057	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed president of the committee. Just a few sentences, and about the report itself and the work of the commission very little and short, that the commission is doing this report demonstrates serious and responsible, unlike many other state bodies and institutions. It's nice to see someone on behalf of the state, on behalf of the people doing conscientiously, responsibly and professionally their work. What I've noticed is that the commission is overloaded, I think it's also unwarranted. If 223 officials have applied for an opinion, isn't that the best sign that something isn't good? Well, it's a sign that the law is not good, because why should officials in so many numbers ask for an opinion if the law is clear? I read it and it's still unclear and it's not good enough. It's indisputable to improve it, urgently. Imagine how much time was spent, including material resources, on 223 indications of submitted opinions. I will only mention Article 20 which speaks of officials that, within one year of termination of office, they must not accept the appointment or election or conclude a contract that enters into a working relationship with a legal person who, during the term of office of the official, was in a business relationship or, at the time of the appointment of the election or the conclusion of the contract and of all the circumstances of the particular case, clearly indicates that he intends to enter into the business relationship during which he has acted. There is no difference in going to a private sector that has been linked to public duties and the eventual departure of officials back to the public sector or conduct a duty in the company, being a member of the management of a state-owned company. What is the conflict of interest if the assistant minister goes to the position of a member of the management of a majority state-owned company? Not at all. The only public interest is at risk if this person does not respond according to professional qualifications, as is often the case. Well, here's the last time the commission was shown, it's a good thing that such a law was because the right person wasn't qualified to run such a big company, but it wouldn't be any threat to public interest. So how someone does not endanger public interest if he is an assistant minister or minister or representative, and immediately endangers public interest if he is the director here, say, Podravka or some other company. Why would he be? It is not logical or rational and declares then the commission, and it must by law that in conflict of interest is a former representative who went to the position of Director Podravka, which is entirely to me, or some other company. At the same time, they go to the private sector, no one registers them or declares that they are in conflict of interest, where there is a major conflict, there is no conflict here, and here it is to express conflict, it has made decisions from the ministry or assistant or deputy to the private sector and the second day goes to pay 60, 70,000 kuna in the private sector and has never been declared to have been in conflict. How is that possible? The People's Bank goes to the bank, it's not in conflict of interest. Chief analyst, not in conflict of interest. And which he made as governor or as vice governor or as deputy, he probably referred to the concessions of maritime goods, not the monetary system. And we're getting away with it, that's what's going on. She said the president of the committee is a necessary registry. Of course, although it is difficult to lead it because of the political immatureness we have in Croatia. So every day we change the officials who are on the running track, you can't even follow them anymore. But it would make sense to have a register and to be monitored by automation where it went within a year, not that someone has to report anonymously. There is no greater evil in this society than anonymous reports. Why does it have to, anonymous applications in a mature society end up in a trash bin. There is one Article 13, not good, except for conflicts of interest, which are fundamentally involved in international projects financed by the European Union. Imagine that a project funded by the European Union can be part of a regional development minister or some other assistant. Well, it's a classic conflict of interest and we, by law, exempt what is a classic conflict of interest from conflict of interest. That's gotta change. We have Article 7 d) which clearly states that an official should not receive additional compensation for public duties conduct, and Article 12 says: "Occupied officials who receive no other salary or compensation for other public duties during their public duties." How is it possible for years in the National Bank, in the Croatian National Bank governors and vice governors to receive other than high salaries and compensation for working in the Council and the same National Bank, and then, when it was seen, they added that salary back to the law again. Imagine that a member of HEP's administration receives other than salary and work compensation at HEP's Administration. Imagine the Minister for Labour receiving compensation for the government's work. Now the members of the council are governors, vice governors and deputy vice governors and they are members of the Council. They have been receiving salaries for years and plus 13,15,000 kuna fees for work on tips. And no one, everyone closes their eyes on it, including the Committee. And now six, seven, or eight months or a year ago, I'm not sure I'm suddenly paying 36,000 kunas, 40,000 kunas net because all those fees for the work of God in the Council have been added to the basic salary. Who do they answer to? No one. No one, so I'd like to ask you what's in that case. They all attack here the salary of parliamentary deputies who are 13000 kunas, and they raise themselves from 20 to 36, no one even asks a question. This report shows that some ministers are in conflict of interest. I think we should also tell the difference between the ones chosen and the ones appointed. Officials appointed and in conflict of interest were ministers, if this is a more serious conflict of interest. They need to be distinguished whether it's benign or really serious. But I don't think anyone in a serious conflict of interest can act as a minister. Like someone's assigning money to a company that owns it. It's a serious no conflict of interest, it's a serious offense. Or if someone didn't report it, imagine not to report an overseas villa worth 5.6m euros in a property card. Well, it wasn't five apples planted in the garden that forgot to report it. It's a serious forgetfulness, and I can't be by chance, so I suggest that the Committee take care of it, but also seriously consider not turning a conflict of interest into a circus, and it seems to me that we're turning it into reality and constant action. It is important to distinguish between what is a serious conflict of interest, and not that every day, for every little thing, we even unwarranted people are disturbed that they are in conflict of interest, but they are not in conflict of interest. And what it points to, I don't know if it's perhaps not enough knowledge now, but the most common ones found themselves in the conflict of interest of the mayors, mayors and mayors of the municipalities. They're not big indicators of conflict of interest at all, but there's something wrong if they're on the wallpaper every day. So I'd like to ask the same thing. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86058	I thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. The first one was Frano Matušić, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86059	A colleague of Maric's, so you pointed to one problem after leaving office in the private sector. I'll say one example in Japan at least it was up to a few years ago. The minister who would have left the minister's post should not have been in the private sector for four years after that in the companies involved in the work related to his ministerial work. During that time, he was provided with a certain fee, etc. In order for a man to live, he must do something. If he is an expert in a particular area in which he was headed as minister, then it is clear that this is an area of action for him and that he must be provided with the future. In Japan, however, it was a practice that it would have to be four years in order to assume that all the privileged information he had as a minister would in some way become obsolete and have no influence, such knowledge of the business of the private company he would go to. However, the following happens with us to say the president of the Croatian Privatisation Fund goes to one private company he privatised, so he returns to another to privatise it again. No one's doubting that. No one checks that property, although it's written about it, etc. So it happens in Croatia. Then can you imagine what this is all about?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86060	The replica corresponds to the respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86061	A colleague, Matušić, well, it is a huge problem that is deliberately created by the invisible, but it is not just a conflict of interest. It's something and more than a conflict of interest, and actually we have not defined by this law which means conflict of interest except that it is defined in... interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what are the consequences of someone privatizing the company while it was in a public office that determines the privatisation of the company. Well, it can't be understood that, he was in conflict of interest, a fine of 5000 kn. Yes, a bank worth 30 billion kuna property privatized by a leader, excellent. We didn't even register it without it registering 15000 kuna fines. At the same time, the mayor or mayor of the municipality will be punished as much. And those who work honestly and a state-run water institution, even if they were doctors of science as I know cases, end up on the road after they acted that way because they did their job fairly. And the one who put pressure on such that he should not work so honestly but that he must work in the interest of another in the ministry ends up employed by the company that left him out of a job. And so we intertwined Croatia. That way we can't build it and that way we can just decompose it and that's why it looks like what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86062	A new replica, dear Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86063	I am pleased to see that you too supported the view that the existing law should be corrected and completed, in that sense, my colleague Beus, on behalf of the HNS Club, spoke as part of the ruling coalition, and I believe that there is a possibility that the Parliament, by adopting this report, would adopt our proposal for a conclusion that by the end of the year, the government must offer the Parliament an amendment to the law. I hope there's such a chance. We will likely have the opportunity to define not only the conflict of public and private, but the public and public where there may also be conflicts of interest. And this third moment that you've discovered, privately-publicly, when someone from a public position goes into the private sector, and before that, you've prepared the ground because he was able to make decisions and enforce God's laws. The debate today shows that the time of the re-debate has matured on whether conflict of interest is just a moral category or a possible suspension of the term of office by force of law. I'm afraid that's still the majority in this House that can't be won, but the debate will open. And when you spoke of penalties, unfortunately the Law of Conflict of Interest does not know the penalty, the fine. He knows the category of pay constriction. So when the official ceases his term of office and stops receiving the salary as an official, he does not have to pay the fine he received from the commission because he no longer receives the salary as an official. So, even so far, we have come to the conclusion that even the decisions of the commission in terms of fines can be played in this way so that the one from the CNB who went to the private sector when it was sanctioned cannot be executed by his mouth of pay because he no longer accepts it as an official because it is already in the private sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86064	The replica matches Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86065	Thank you very much. I warned my colleague Lesar about the negativity of this law, inapplicability, and indifference. And from that, the conclusion is that we need to seriously consider her changes. But now you've associated me with a practical here's the latest illogicality. Imagine, Madam President, it is not a conflict of interest when a private bank manager comes to the position of the head of the state bank's administration that the private bank buys, publicly buys, expressed public interest in buying the bank. Before buying, he sends his director to that state bank. At the same time, any state official or representative in the interest of the State cannot leave now as director of that state bank. I have to be polite, I don't know what to call that perversion right. It's a terrible thing! And I can't imagine that's an accident. Believe me, it's not an accident, because if it were an accident then it wouldn't have happened, but someone made it possible for a privateer to come from any function to the state, but that he couldn't from state to state. Well, it can't because it opens up space to the private sector. Well, not those responsible for the state of the society run by state-owned companies, they're incompetent, but those who don't respond, and from the private sector we're going to send them there, they're going to be the best public function but they're not responsible because we politicians are responsible. And they'll pick up the good and severance bonuses when they get fired for their illogicality. And that no one alive in this Croatia has responded to such an unnatural situation. You buy a company and you send your man to the state company for the director. Great, great!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86066	A new replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86067	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Marić throughout your discussion and discussions of other colleagues, but even now in replicas, you have well mentioned what it is in the definition of a conflict of interest in reality. Isn't this moment when we think about it and this government in conflict of interest with the Croatian people? Didn't the citizens, didn't the Croatian people expect honest and honorable conduct in the elections? It is. Unfortunately, however, since I would say both worlds and centuries, there must have been some laws, and each one of us has religious and family values throughout our lives. So each of us somehow carries no lies, doesn't steal, doesn't kill, doesn't want, doesn't take, and then unfortunately it happens that politics, that politicians, officials and ultimately this question that I asked about this Croatian government come into conflict of interest because they can't contain all these demands for corruption, so that they rise above everyone, and especially above that voter who chose him or whoever put him in place. Well, as possible, you mentioned and said the most there was the mayor and the chief, and I agree. It's not just those who are in conflict of interest, but it just hurts me so much that you're from a political party at all, and we're witnessing a chief who's the head of a municipality and is simply being sent to a state-owned company that does best business. Does this government want to destroy this company on purpose? Why? Is that the first time? Whether this will be repeated again and how Croatian citizens and Croatian voters will believe. Who? How can you be sure that someone is telling you, not lying, and that they will honor their duty? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86068	The replica matches Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86069	My colleagues, the twilight, well, countless examples are illogical and which are unrecognizable as a conflict of interest, and I even think it's too much of a conflict of interest that might really be, there's no harm at all, but it has to be qualified as a conflict of interest and then it turns out to the public that it's some terrible offense, that someone committed a crime, and in fact did nothing, but the law is not well regulated and sometimes blamed people who are completely correct in their actions. But if we do this a little bit more carefully, and I just suggested that the Committee does register entry/exit, where they come from and where the people from the ministry come from, and you'd see that it's just a few companies that are like the base, they're an intellectual university for the Croatian future. So you see the Ministry of Agriculture and you analyze where these people are going and where they come from. We can't go with that kind of personnel policy forward, and the biggest obstacle to the development of society is the wrong use of human potential. The greatest crime to his people is because of the one who doesn't use human potential in the right way, society has failed in which some society has led, and Gotovina has been imprisoned, and even today, they're closing up the Banks under quotes, they're just not in jail, they're out of work, and... they're similar to those who ran a society that's long since failed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86070	Followed by a replica of the esteemed Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86071	Thank you very much. Comrade Maric, with most of your basic exposure, I agree and support him. First of all, I must show my satisfaction that it is now clear after two years that HDZ has become aware that the law we warned about when it was passed and later is not good and should be changed. You remember the debate and the delay of the Committee's election in order to change the law. About what I have seen and heard now, more or less, we have a consensus in the Assembly on the change and need of amendments to this law, I hope that the government will change it during this year or in its term of office. Here, I can even understand that this law has been one of the conditions for the EU, so it is what it is, but now we see a number of bad solutions coming from it. I wouldn't go back to history and talk about where someone went and where they came from,...we could analyze it and actually start counting, but I don't think that's our goal right now. However, I have heard one thing that a large number of requests by state officials to determine and interpret whether they are in conflict of interest is actually just the reason that the law is bad. I don't think it's just that, I think a little among the officials matures awareness of the need not to be in conflict of interest. But I'm still worried about one fact that I have to point out here. I don't understand where the political party's responsibility is? How do political parties, for example, for people who have been found to be in conflict of interest or against persons who are being prosecuted in the lists, point out to individual units of local self-government? It's a little bit for me like this, I can't possibly... And then you still have a situation, let's say that in certain situations these people are Obviously, we also need to do something in this educational promotional sense and explain what this law means. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86072	Thank you. Answer, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86073	Thank you very much. Comrade Lucin, I agree with you that it is not logical that if someone is in conflict of interest to behave high functions or to be on the list, but here, I just said, we have current ministers who are in conflict of interest. Where a more ideal position will be than by political will, let's not let the ministers act on your duty because it doesn't make sense to act as a minister. So what's more responsible for society, being a minister or being on some list of locals there? We have a minister who's in conflict of interest, not one, we have three. So let's change them and arrange for them never to be ministers again, not just them or them, anyone else's. The minister found to be in conflict with the interest of resigning, that it is the minimum necessary to do so. I agree that the request isn't just bad law, but that's it. I agree that maybe what you've said is an increase in the awareness of the responsible officer, and that, but I forgot to say, there's probably fear. And out of fear, they apply, even dare, most possibly because of fear. And then what else is going on? That the same for fear of putting up with the opinion of both the DORH and the conflict of the Committee of Interest, for every decision by a member of the board, submits the opinion of the DORH, please see that I am, will it be a criminal offence if I do so? Well, that's not how society works, it can't be the law of a local community, let alone a serious company or state. We've brought it down to it with our own behavior. Because anyone can file a criminal report, anyone can say that a criminal complaint has been filed against him and that he is not actually responsible for what the criminal application for him has been filed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86074	Now we shall hear the replica of the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86075	Thank you very much. I think you've turned the debate on a part of the problem that has not been highlighted so far, so it went below the work and when the law was passed, which is the departure of officials to the private sector. So you mentioned among others from the Croatian National Bank to another bank, but I will mention from the Croatian National Bank to the private sector as well, but also from the ministry that goes to the private sector, and that is one of the reasons why we absolutely need to change or amend a new law, because in all other officials who were in ministries or other important Croatian institutions, everything else was at source and privileged information, and that is something that should also be taken into account. But we must give the commission the right tools in hand, so transparent and clear laws that direct or target the problems to which the Commission can and must react. And the other thing, the demands, the frequent demands of officials, a large number of requests to the commission to interpret the law because if an official is asked to show the commission whether he eats in conflict of interest or not, then that means interpreting the law. I think it's a good phenomenon because officials slowly understand the importance of applying the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and on the other hand show confidence and respect and respect for such an important body as the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Well, I think in this phase of transition, we can say hello.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86076	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86077	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kosor, of course, in a debate in a particular topic, there is always a need to take a broader look at and take advantage of the opportunity and situation to point to what we are missing, and what would be good to fix and correct. So I took advantage of this situation to point to some articles, especially here I will return to this article, imagine an exception if something is funded by the EU, and it is not exempt if something is financed by the Croatian State. So where's the logic? And why just what are EU projects? I recognize the handwriting in this, I recognize the written interest of those who participate in such projects, and they are senior officials of the Republic of Croatia. It doesn't make sense. When you say it's a good phenomenon to write demands, it's good, but it's unnecessary. Why waste time on that? If there's anything clear, then we don't need to lose, we're turning into unnecessary. Well, a normal man doesn't need any criminal law. He knows if he's right or wrong. Let's just ask ourselves what I'm doing if everyone sees and everyone knows because I'm doing this, but he doesn't need any law just to answer that question. If I'm going to be proud of what I've done if it's going to be published tomorrow in the journal or on the news, you don't need to read his laws or his regulations, just let him answer that question and that's how he's going to work. But I'm afraid that these vague rules and laws make it possible for us to try to sneak between bandages and look for solutions that are not legitimately good and that approve of bad deeds, which is why we have to avoid it anyway, and that's why it needs to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86078	Thank you. The last replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86079	Thank you very much. You spoke of the absurds, you said, and you added another word to the perversions that stem from these unspeakable legal norms and solutions. Even the commission itself, based on this legislation, puts very often into doubt and only the commission on it. So I agree with the need to change the legislation regarding conflicts of interest. Speaking of absurdities, you said the three ministers were in conflict of interest, our Croatian minister. And here it was yesterday and I watched on HRT that the president of Germany resigned because there were doubts in 700 euros, the amount of 700 euros that was in conflict of interest. He resigned, later proved it was unnecessary, was not guilty of the 700 euros. They offered him a return to office, he wouldn't accept it. Furthermore, when you were talking about mayors and mayors of municipalities who are entering a conflict of interest and solving the commission, you should actually apply that to our people that "The fish stinks of the head, not the tail," and it seems that a lot is being solved with us by the tail, and the head, starting with those three ministers who are in conflict of interest, is not being resolved. I still wanted to say something. Those who come and go from the ministries to certain firms said nice Chris Cvijic is the most important information they carry with them. That information they carry with them or come to the government so intelligence services or services no one counts on it. By leaving the government, he carries a lot of things to a particular private firm. And we really need to think about changing that law and the norm that after acting in a state office you shouldn't go to a private company for a while. And about the Ministry of Agriculture and the departure of deputies to firms or the company we know all about, we don't need to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86080	Time. Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86081	Thank you very much. Kola Grubisic, not characterised by a conflict of interest when one director was the director of a state-owned company and had shares of the company, when it was sold, he earned 36 or 34 million kuna in contrast, as director of the company. It's never even a conflict of interest, let alone something else that should be. When you talk about the law, this law must be brought undisputed by consensus politically. But... The law was not debated at all, it was debated only by the commission because everyone cared about who was going to be in the commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I personally don't care who's in the commission. It's important to me, you know what's important to me? By name and by name, I don't care, it's important that it meets the conditions, the technical ones, that it has knowledge, that it has character and that it loves Croatia. If that's not there, I don't care if she's my next of kin. If he has it, I don't care who he is or where he comes from. And we've narrowed down who's going to be a member of the committee and the chairman of the commission. And that's why we don't have a bad law because this other one's almost defined or misdefined. And if we choose the right people, the right people, then the least of the problems is the law. So let's write down the conditions more clearly for the members of the committee and for the chairman of the commission, respect the criteria in the selection and then choose the best people for these. And someone's pushing us out or because someone likes someone. I never have a favorite person but I have a favorite we're in criteria. And the criteria are something that is buried in Croatia, I don't think it should be unearthed at all. But we can't build or lead a state unless we're going to raise the criteria a little above everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86082	We will now hear the final opinion of the President of the Chamber of Honored Dalia Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86083	Honorable President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I'm going to look briefly at some of the topics that were highlighted in this debate. It was obvious that the period during which, due to the loss of quorum, the commission in the previous meeting could not have implemented an important part of the proceedings under its jurisdiction had a negative impact on perception and on the awareness of a number of officials on the obligations arising from the provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, as well as the consequences of their infringement. The commission was aware of this at the time of our duty, and we were well aware of the tasks ahead of us. In the first year of its term, the commission sought to deal with the very core of the problem, and that is exactly what this report is all about. He is thus and conceived not to criticise but that what has been seen through practice in his work by the commission, what the knowledge of the commission has served as an incentive and as an aid in improving the system itself but also as an aid in raising the level of policy as a profession. The logistic difficulties mentioned in this report have led to only one of the objective statistics. But these problems were never referred to by the commission in the past year as justification, nor were they particularly highlighted. However, these problems in terms of administrative sub-capacitation have been highlighted by certain international institutions, expressing concerns about whether the commission will be able to achieve the objectives and objectives set out in the law at all. I think primarily of the European Commission but also of GRECO, we all know what these institutions have said in their reports adopted this year about the problem. The fact is that, at the time of the commission's entry, only 8 employees were employed by the board. Of these 8 employees were all 3 advisers, one economist and two lawyers, one lawyer, the lawyer was on maternity leave. Which means that we're actually in the logistics sense, in terms of the support that should have been used to help process the subject and in making our acts we could rely on just 1.5 let's just say that, 1.5 person. I would also mention that the current action plan envisaged strengthening staff in the Commission's office for 12 new employees. In the last year, only two employees were actually admitted to the Commission's office and that counsellor, a lawyer with a legal exam. In fact, the Commission wanted to manage what the Constitutional Court said about the necessary level of expertise to carry out tasks from the Commission's competence and since it is a dynamic area in which international initiatives need to be monitored, international... and work permanently on comparative analyses as some solutions are set up in other countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when we entered into office, we were aware that we could not rely on logistics, and the burden of the practical part of the work took over, which means that it was the members who were the ones who were making the acts. In fact, making a decision or opinion at a public session is relatively easy, to translate it into a written act that is fully published on the Commission’s website is somewhat more challenging. And in these very acts, especially in the scope of their arguments, the commission sought to make one step in a qualitative way in relation to what existed earlier as a practice. In this way, the commission sought to build trust in its objectivity and impartiality but also in the professionalism that I believe is necessary to give greater and greater importance in the periods to come. So as I pointed out, the essence of the report is that it points to the essence of the problem without apostrophe of certain names. In fact, they are in that statistical section in order to be completely transparent of the figures under which a particular item is kept in the manual books. And the contents of these items and whether they are solved and within which time can be seen from the other part where we have shown a brief summary of each of these objects. From that part, it is evident that there is actually no outstanding case from 2010, and it is visible to which the official is working, but I say from the need to keep that objectivity to no one in particular we want to apostrophe. The fact is that the law does not prescribe time limits within which the commission must adopt a certain act, i.e. a time limit exists only in the part of the case relating to a request for the opinion of the official himself, but not in the part in which the commission must initiate or decide whether an individual official is in conflict of interest. With that in mind, the commission was aware at the time of entry into service that it was actually our weakest point and that today's biggest criticism could just be directed at the period that was needed to solve an individual object in the domain of conflict of interest. At the same time, the commission took all the remaining outstanding items into operation when it entered into office. Of course, the dynamics of their resolution depended on their content, on how complex they were and at which speed the commission could collect the necessary information and evidence from other competent authorities. But it is also important to point out that all these items, including this 2010 subject, bear witness to something that has resulted in a significant period of time. In particular, there was something from 2004 and 2005, which means that these items have a certain sound of archaicity, so the commission was self-initiativeally, parallelly and in parallel with the resolution of these laggings and what results from the current events. I say, they were primarily conducted on the basis of their own knowledge because of obvious violations of respect for those restrictions stemming from the law. These are for example memberships in administrations and supervisory committees of companies. The logistics solutions and the way the commission dealt with them will be said more when the next report is submitted. In fact, the commission did not give priority to this, we felt that, in the context of what the international institutions said in their reports, the primary strategic goal was to achieve a shift in the number of cases solved, i.e. to achieve so-called. track record. We all know that this was also indicated when chapter 23 was closed. In this year, the Commission is carrying out the information and I believe that what we will achieve through this project will significantly improve the work of the Commission, and it will be easier to read some statistics. Given that statistics are going hand in hand in 2013, it may be a pity that these statistics are not shown in a different way in this report, and among other things, in the part of the way the financial resources were used, since the commission has actually achieved quite significant savings. There will certainly be more words in the following reports, so we will pay special attention. However, statistics will actually say little in this year about what is actually the greatest lack of solutions that exist at the moment. If we're talking about checking the data from the submitted property card reports, the fact is that in our first year of office we had local elections. After the local elections were held in the commission, cards arrived for both those officials whose mandate had ceased and the newly elected ones. Over 3,000 new property cards have arrived in the commission to be processed administratively. Prior to this call by the Commission, administrative verification in the sense that it is now defined by law has not been carried out, and administrative verification in the sense that the report has been submitted in a timely manner, whether it has been signed and whether, in a formal sense, it meets the criteria of the correct and correct form, is a prerequisite for further so-called implementation. regular checks. The Commission carried out this administrative check on all reports submitted and indeed there was a major logistics problem in terms of the input of these data into the Internet application, given that we have only two employees engaged in this job, and you yourself noticed that given the technological reach of the time in which we live, it would be much simpler if we had an electronic form and then the process of copying data from the manually completed reports would no longer be necessary. What the Commission is currently implementing on this plan, so we will create all the preconditions that, as early as next year, this electronic form will certainly facilitate the way in which the report is submitted, the way in which the amendments and additions of these reports are submitted, and it is also precisely the formation of such an electronic form that makes it a basic prerequisite for meaningful and effective regular verifications. Therefore, regular checks in terms of whether the official has reported the entire assets he is obliged to report and whether its disproportionate wealth occurred during his duties. In that part, as this report testifies, there were fewer cases that were completed and implemented, not so much because of the commission itself, but because other institutions were unable to respond in due time to our demands, to the amount of our request, and I say they were relatively small in relation to the circle of officials that the commission should control in relation to the property data. It should be borne in mind that we have 3,000 officials in the commission's jurisdiction, and the commission should carry out regular checks on the assets not only of these officials but also of their family's ropes, which means that this number is increasing multiple times. Only by establishing an electronic database within the Commission itself, and the assumption of this is to raise the internal information network and to network the data between the databases available to individual institutions such as the Tax Administration and other bodies will be able to carry out systematic verification of the data from the property cards and by means of an automatic processing system, otherwise the service of only 15 or 18 people cannot control this amount of officials, i.e. persons subject to the law systematically. I thank the official who mentioned the international organisation RESP and the content of the report made under the comparative study conducted by the institution. What is a shame, it is a pity that the Republic of Croatia, in the wake of the fact that last year we joined the EU with the end of this year, will no longer be members of that organisation, and it is precisely the Member States that make up and which may have the most similar system of checking data from the property cards submitted, and it would be good to use their knowledge and their practice to know how and how to adapt the legislative framework to the needs of this verification. I would point out that the Constitutional Court also said that it is on the legislator's responsibility to verify the procedure and to regular checks of the normative arrangements. In relation to the implementation of systematic education of all levels of officials, the fact is that it is one of the obligations of the Commission. Also, the fact that in the first year of the term of office, the Commission focused primarily on conducting education at the level of local and regional self-government officials, because unlike senior officials at the municipal level, they do not often have a secretary, they do not have someone who would know how to refer them to certain provisions of the law in a timely manner. Of course, ignorance of the law does not prevent, but timely introduction of its provisions can reduce the number of procedures that the Commission must then carry out, and any new procedure that has been launched actually further deepens the confidence gap that citizens have towards public officials. The Commission intends to carry out the education of all levels of officials, but plans to develop specific programmes before that, given that the essence of the problems that individual behaviour in everyday life encounters is not the same when it comes to a local official or, for example, to someone acting in a state-level executive. As for representatives in the Croatian Parliament and today's debate has shown that some MPs do not know the provisions of the law precisely enough and what the law says, I say not precisely enough. In this respect, it is particularly important to highlight the difference between the conflict of interest itself defined as a conflict between public interest and private interests of officials or as a suspicion of impartiality in the conduct of public duty than what we say is a violation of the provisions of the law itself. The Commission's conflict of interest only determines, and sanctions are imposed for a found breach of the provisions of the law. Why does this report testify to a large number of proceedings against officials at local, regional level? So because, in fact, in the first year of the term of office, the Commission has given priority to obtaining initial experience in the regular verification of the data from the reports submitted, we have targeted the verification of one part of the data and these are memberships in the administrations and supervisory boards of companies. In that part of the proceedings are also initiated against officials of the executive authority and against MPs in the Croatian Parliament and against officials at local, regional level, as well as individual other public officials. In this way, the Commission has shown objectivity, neutrality in these cases concerning the same infringements of the provisions of the law were found to be members of all political options and independent public officials, so that the Commission could thus have an objective, transparent system under which the range of sanctions imposed for a specific provision of the law could be built, and without that being put at risk that any case could be used for day-to-day policy purposes. As regards the education of MPs in the Croatian Parliament again, I would point out that GRECO, at a plenary session that he adopted in June this year, gave a recommendation that the Republic of Croatia should adopt within 18 months of the date of adoption of that report, in order to raise integrity in the conduct of public duties at Parliament level, so at the level of the Croatian Parliament, the Ethics Code is adopted. In doing so, it is important that this Ethics Code be only a regulatory act, i.e. that representatives themselves participate in the creation of its content, where the Committee can serve as a kind of tool that will provide specific impulses, guidelines and instructions. The recommendations of GRECO also stressed the need to establish a better bridge and better communication channels in terms of the advisory process on what the ethical principle in practice actually means, so that it would represent these ethical principles in the conduct of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Today’s debate also said that there was a lack of public condemnation of a found conflict of interest. This may not be the case if it pays attention to something identified by the European Commission in its report on the prevention of corruption in that part, in that contribution to the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the European Commission is calling for a concrete example, and I will not say the name again because it does not need to be apostrophyd here. Therefore, the European Commission has found that political responsibility can play a very important role in raising the level of political integrity, as well as raising the level of confidence of citizens in public authorities. Therefore, it is left to public officials to make certain decisions and withdraw measures to protect or justify their credibility on the basis of their personal moral attitude. Given that we also touched on the case in which the commission decided against HRT Director-General again, the commission took a huge risk. If we remind ourselves of what the Constitutional Court has said about overstepping the jurisdiction and usurpation of powers, then the commission has also taken the risk of criticism that will eventually arise as a consequence of this case. But on this occasion, I would like to say that in fact the responsibility for this case is divided into three participants. Therefore, it may primarily be the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament itself which has not clearly defined in good time and that Mr Radman himself has to be considered an official in terms of the application of this law. This would achieve those principles of rule of law and legal certainty that I spoke about in the opening part of the report. Thus, it would draw the official's attention in due time to what his legal rights and obligations are. The Commission has acted here with the aim of making a legitimate pressure through the subject, to point out the importance of the problem, to take more account of the corruption risk arising from future amendments and additions to the law. Therefore, neither the law nor the commission of acting as duty, so those who are named and named in a certain position are prone to corrupt actions, but that function itself is a sequence of those powers that are subject to corrupt risks. In this respect, the Commission considers that, in future amendments and additions, it should consider that some other functions, such as members of the HBOR Board and others, should be included in the circle of those public responsibilities subject to the obligations laid down by the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. It is important to note that the Radman case as well as other cases which the commission has entered into an autonomous interpretation of the status of officials is still subject to administrative disputes and is not known how the administrative courts will interpret the positions taken by the commission in these cases. In view of the trend in the increase in the number of opinions requested, the commission actually assesses this by a very, very positive indication that the Institute of Opinion is actually conceived as an option given to the official when it is found in doubt whether the situation is in line with the principles of public duty behaviour. This is from the assumption that it is clear to the official what the law prescribes and that what is defined by law itself is not questionable. There are potentially some ethical principles that cannot be prescribed by law, and this is where instructions are required from the committee on how to do the right thing in order to protect their own credibility. In the light of the process of amending and supplementing the law, the Commission may be involved in a public debate on better legal solutions and offer its proposals and solutions based on experience in the application of this law and its practice. However, the fact is that up to any future changes and additions the commission applies a law adopted in 2011 as it reads, neither liberally nor conservatively, but in a literal interpretation of its provisions. The Commission may undertake to analyse the practice resulting from work so far and to organise a series of round tables on which individual institutes under this law could be discussed in more detail and how to improve them as appropriate. However, when we talk about amendments and amendments to the law, it should be kept in mind that the first law was passed in 2003, that it was then subsessionally changed almost every year, perhaps with the exception of one, and that it certainly did not contribute to legal certainty. In view of the 15 administrative disputes that have been launched, administrative courts have made only two final decisions, it may be desirable to wait a while for some procedural institutes to be crystallized through the views of administrative courts. In this way, the responsibility to amend and supplement laws would be shown not to make it easy but to really base themselves on certain research and conclusions on what really constitutes the essence of the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86084	Thank you. We have one replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86085	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam President of the Commission. Many times in today's debate were mentioned local officials and you are the same in your final address, so it encouraged me to call in to mention some things. Of course, they're also mentioned in the public, and in the media often that way with bombic inscriptions, a hack moves on local officials, they're certain sheriffs, they do miracles like this, such indifferences, and many troubles to do something, improve the quality of life from kindergarten. Now of course with this tax new which will be even less likely. But those are other questions. I was encouraged by the replica of where you mentioned after the local elections last year that about 3,000 so administrative checks were in place. Even in that part, some questions have arisen that may deserve a certain answer. It was in those tests of certain questions about how much your property is worth, and we know that the real estate market in our pretty house is what it is, none. How much is your agricultural land worth? If we know who's authorized to give the value of the property, we know, I know in my community that none of them have been sold. So she's not worth anything in the market sense. So that's the part. For those living in that property, it is immeasurable because they live in it, if the IRS will not give the information, if you need to hire an authorised court expert who, of course, costs, too, you cannot give valid information. Please, it's important to think about and to show yourself about it. That's one thing. The other thing is the question, says or possibly shares, we're talking about... shares, how much is it worth? None of us are any expert on those stocks so that we can... [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] There's data, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86086	The committee's president, Dalia Oreskovic, will respond to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86087	Thank you for asking. In view of these administrative checks last year, the Commission reached a total of over a thousand conclusions, which indicate to officials that the rule and fully fulfil the report. Very often they forgot in the report, as is now prescribed in force, the data on the market value of the property. The Commission gave the interpretation that it was actually an indicative market assessment, so there was no need to hire a court expert, and as far as the shares are concerned, their number and their nominal value were to be indicated. Otherwise, you can find a guideline on our website, it is also one of the guidelines and instructions provided by the Commission last year, not specifically highlighted in this report, therefore, the guideline on the correct filling of the form. In all educations, the Committee shares certain materials and provides guidance on how to fill out the form properly and fully. Experience in these administrative checks will certainly be a significant contribution to the regulation of a new form of property report for which, as I have already pointed out, the Commission is making every effort to create all the preconditions that it can be implemented early next year. Of course, there is a need for a certain political will and consensus to be carried out in the work, and I believe that it will also exist since it goes hand in hand not only to officials who will make it easier, easier, more transparent, more summary of those reports, but the Commission will also get a better tool to verify the data contained in these reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86088	I thank the Presidents of the Committee, Dalia Oreskovic, and I conclude the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to the Committee's report on the decision-making work on conflict of interest for 2013. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest for 2013. A year.". Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 117 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention, have adopted the proposed conclusion. In line with the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Croatian Parliament calls on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose amendments to the Croatian Parliament by the end of 2014 to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests according to the Report on the Committee's decision to decide on a conflict of interest for 2013 and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from 28 August 2014, given on the report.". Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. The proposed conclusion was not accepted, 43 votes were in favour, 7 against and 62 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86091	Thank you very much, Vice President. Respected representatives of the agency. Well, it's a little unusual for me to have an agency report without anyone wanting to say anything about that report on behalf of the agency, although I believe that after joining the same HACOM, it may be a lack of good information or understanding of this issue, but then we settled on the dry interpretation of the law in Article 19. The Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Markets for Railway Services provides for the submission of a report. Indeed, the question is what is the purpose of submitting this report to the Croatian Parliament? What did we in the Croatian Parliament or some of the gatherings before us want to achieve with a report like this? Have we made any progress compared to the 2012 report in the railway system? Do we have at all, in what state is the entire Croatian railway system based on this report? Or we should have just written that the agency was doing something, that she received, I don't know, two or three complaints, that she solved them in one way or another, that she then forced herself to do something based on official duty and then it all fits on that nice summary on one page that the agency was doing in 2013. Because by reading this report, it's on 50 pages. It kind of got out of hand. This report justifies the claim made in the introduction. It says, after 5 years, the agency is professionally and staffedly ready to regulate rail transport, the rail market has seen changes in a positive sense in the management of services, but the expected effects in the results have not been achieved. The regulation of rail relations itself cannot achieve an increase in traffic. So, although we are making progress in regulation, the results on the railway lines, the overall results of public enterprises are simply getting weaker and weaker every year. When we discussed the 2012 report, we in the Assembly warned of the need for the agency to either terminate or attach, and that may be the only result of the discussion of the report at that time. The government accepted this and in 2014 joined this agency with the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications. Although rail transport has little to do with the regulation of the postal and telecommunications markets, it is important not to lose the agency's competence, former agencies within HACOM. Because in 2013, we joined the EU, but by foreign operators, to this day, there is no railway. After the amendment of the Law on Railways, the conditions for the regulation of rail transport were made easier and more up-to-date in 2013. The report is indeed abounding with many data comparing us with many EU countries, and we can even conclude with those small countries within the EU we can carry at least numerically if not in the quality that we have on the railways. This report is richer than so far many data that have become measurable by changing the Law on Railways, especially the part concerning the collection of certain fees and supervision and charges. The 2012 complaint situation did not recur in 2013, but two complaints were considered which were transferred from 2012 to 2013 due to lack of time. However, this report shows that we are concerned about the ineffectiveness of the appeal processes. the inability to effectively resolve a particular dispute between those three companies, between HZ Infrastructure on the one hand, HZ Cargo and Passenger Transport on the other. All three complaints were resolved in 2012. For one dispute before the Administrative Court in progress, the other agency has found impunity and rejected it, and for the third, we have failed to find out a solution because there is at least no visible decision or solution made by the Agency. And then they say because of a small number of complaints the agency was doing other tasks in its immediate jurisdiction. Control and control of fees, a little deeper I read that control and control of those fees, that's one reading for Transport College. I really don't know what Parliamentarians would do with these fees and with that control should do. There are formulas to calculate fees, so certain data, statistics, really one reading for the students of Transport College. I don't think that's the place for the agency's reports when they come here. But what bothers me is that in that report, and it's the only chance that we can talk about the state within HH we can't get the impression of the general state of it. When we talk about the laws we're changing I don't know a certain regulation about railways, then we focus on certain paraphrases. And I think the reports of the agency that is the only one in charge of monitoring in some way these societies are still an opportunity to at least say something about this general state in this House, and that's what we get through these reports. We don't know where the money went, I don't know why it was spent, we don't know if we're making progress in that system or after a lot of investment we're going back. I believe that the agency, as an independent regulator, could, on the basis of the funds transferred from the budget that are public, think of transfers from the HH budget based on its own activities, mean in regulation, based on statistics, but through this report, we have not been able to see it through this report. The only trend is visible, and he says as much money as we invest in reconstruction and infrastructure, the number of passengers transported and the burden is constantly falling, the lines are cut, trains are less trafficked. If it's not the law, it's not the regulators and regulations, then what's the problem, why are we weaker every year than the previous one? That's what would interest us in the Parliament, and I believe it would trigger an even better debate. According to us in HDZ, the general state within the HH is not satisfactory, from frequent management shifts, ineffectiveness in the withdrawal of EU funds, to accidents that have been constantly and frequently occurring in recent years. There is a reason for dissatisfaction not only with politics but also with the users of HH services. The summary at the end of this report confirms in part my claims. It's enough to read just a few hints, I'm taking it out of the agency's opinion. "It is a negative trend in the industry's performance indicators through the decline in traffic. Only two rail carriers owned by the Republic of Croatia continue to operate on the rail market, although we have joined the EU. The number of trains transported in passenger transport is less by 3.34% compared to the previous year, the number of passengers transported is less than 12.7% compared to the previous year, the number of trains transported in freight transport is lower by 8.3% compared to the previous year, the quantity of goods transported is less than 2% compared to the previous year," this is from the summary of this report. What's causing that? The incompetent Government so the effects and best administrations are not worth anything or vice versatile management that the good government does not help in better results or in our HDZ situation is the present state of synergy of incompetent governments and incompetent administrations. So why do I say that? I'm saying because we're out there in the middle of the summer, I was really surprised by the fact that in the media it came out that a member of the board that was removed is raising criminal charges against the Secretary of Staff. It's me, as far as I'm trying to think back to some larger time period, it hasn't been recorded. The one the minister puts down by the government appoints when he leaves to file criminal charges after certain conflicts within some political groups. It's so far unmarked. How does that story end? And serious accusations. It's just something a man can't believe. The former HZ chiefs of the Hajdash-Doncic say they reported to the DORH, and serious accusations concern exactly that complaint report discussed by the agency. Where's the biggest fight? HZ Cargo and Passenger Transport always object to the amount of compensation determined by HZ Infrastructure. And right through this criminal reporting process, we find out what's important. When someone accuses the minister, the resolute minister of doing damages amounting to 100m euros, and the minister responds to that thanks Darko Pericic, congratulations and this ends, the question really raises where the Croatian democracy has come from, what systems of repression, persecution in such cases. And these are very serious accusations. Because if the minister is a member of the assembly and heads the HZ CARGO Assembly and orders another company to fire him, i.e. to forgive him or to reduce his fees or not to charge him a debt, so what kind of business are we talking about in the Croatian Railways? What is it, some kind of company of friends? Some kind of empire, a small empire where there are emperors and little emperors. Well, when they got into a fight, then we're pulling the responsibility issue. When emperors leave the empires, questions of responsibility are raised. Because if 116 million kunas were to be charged then they had to be charged. Which the minister as a member of another society prevents it. So they write orders to do so, and then the change of administration and the authority of the one who remained, etc. Well, that turns out to be some kind of society where a party can do whatever it wants and whatever it wants. What does he do, say DORH, jump on that? What are they doing? Well, someone didn't say someone hid 500 kuna, 700 kuna, so that's hundreds of millions of kuna. And that's exactly what's going on, and the agencies are going to tell us what's really going on. Because when you read their solution to resolved complaints or those that are eventually resolved by the administrative court, they're heavy paraphrases, a legal story, and what's life has come out through some other way. We think in HDZ that it is not the time to be hostages of such relations because only damage to Croatian railways and all societies because it is still a 100% society owned by the Republic of Croatia, and all three have the means and opportunities to function in this area until others appear. And that's why it's responsibility for those who run the ministry and the administration to create stability, and not for such actions to put that same society in an even worse position than they should be. When we look at just some headlines, "The detour misturned the turning point so he took off the rear passenger train car", "Because of the sliding of the railway vehicle stopped the railway traffic on the Knin-Zadar track", "A avoided collision of the passenger and freight train in Oriovac, "HH excluded the electricity to prevent the tragedy", "A avoided collision of trains at Long Sela and eventually this famous "The former heads of HZ Hajdaša Dončić reported to the DORH. I think it is clear enough that in Croatia, the democratic community should think about the situation in this society, the relations between those who should be there and still are and make decisions. And to tell the Croatian public by means of the only option and that is the report of this agency can find out what is really going on there. We are not ready to accept even though the report in some way statistically through certain parameters showed what the agency was doing in this state as a general condition is worrying. Even more alarming is the relationship between those who manage it and ultimately the results that are getting worse and worse every year, i.e. We are weaker every year compared to last year and large funds are invested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86092	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first came to you, dear Tomislav Klaric, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86093	Dear fellow MP, you said this was an opportunity to talk a little bit about HZ, and you mentioned just the precedent that tells us that the removed management president and his administration filed criminal charges against the state's attorneys and that because of the abuse of the position and the damage to HZ infrastructures. It's about what we know about HZ CARGO and 116 million kunas that they had on the account at that time as 80 million kunas were listed so that only a few million kunas were charged. At this point, investments in HH are huge, modernizing the old river track to call it that, installing APB devices and supply sections. The question and control of all these works, the spending of funds is raised. When we have information from the field that in the spring of this year, we have built-in turners on old turns that are now changing and then I guess these heaters will take off again and set them back on new turns. The question of the funds invested in the severances is also raised, among other things, in these allegations of the former chairman of the board of directors of Mr Pericic relating to early retirement, to the purchase of employment or to the payment of severance fees to employees. There is a whole bench, a color that is all over its scope, and some normal frames of finance, since it's hundreds of millions of kunas and more when we know what the situation in Gredeli is, what is the situation in HZ's rolling stock, what is the condition with the possibility of carrying loads to our rails and for long-term railways. But all that's going on, here we are, unfortunately, and a few consecutive accidents that have happened. The question arises as to how many such accidents are inflicted and financial damages, human victims in the sense of reducing the number of workers who have just worked to ensure such traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86094	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86095	Thank you very much. Here I told my dear colleague in our discussion that we in HDZ are thinking and not acceptable to us in the Croatian Railways. There are certain culprits for this, and until stability and responsibility are created from a resolute minister to a president of the administration of that society, we will not support any policy implemented by this government within that company. Because indeed for the public, of the three companies HZ-Infrastructure, HZ-Cargo and Traveling, all three are dependent on each other and all three are suing for compensation and these complaints end up in the agency, and now we have just discussed a conflict of interest. So is it normal for the president of HZ-Carga's Assembly, which is the minister who represents the assembly, to order another society not to charge him something to make it better, or to make it work, and then to change everything from that other society, because it can, suggest it to the government, and then the government goes on. What kind of situation is that? So far unmarked in Croatia and this way. And it came out after, I say, certain conflicts within a political group. Who is the hostage of this, Croatian citizens, service users, everyone, and ultimately society itself is failing. And then we can listen here about huge investments, about EU funds, and the most normal, simplest part that's a matter of human factor and personality is not being solved, and of course we're all in a state of what they are, and those societies that obviously aren't working properly lately, and a number of accidents are just increasing the impression that there's really no longer anyone who's doing what, who's drinking, who's paying, who's ending up in the media...... I'm sorry, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86096	New replica, Tomislav Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86097	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Boric, you are quite incorrect, you could say a little and misstated, and that is your right ultimately politically speaking, but I am bothered by the triviality of how you treat what is happening on the Croatian railways. It's been many years, and the situation on the railroads isn't great at all. You are and in the technical part of this report it is well seen, about the lengths of the track, about the amount of electrified railways, about how many bi-colost lines it has. You see, in regulation theory when someone opens a window if we want to heat one room, if someone opens a window it's a disorder, we can face that disorder. However, if there is no stove in this, it is very difficult to remove the disorder that occurs by opening a window. Why would I bring that up? When we talk about HZ-Carg, we're talking about almost 3,500 people. You're quite trivially saying that you should have charged, but the government also has a commitment to all people who have been systematically ignored through a system that has been negligible and who have been employed on this side with technology that existed. So whether it is necessary to have motioners today or whether it is necessary to buy devices that are significantly cheaper and that will automatically change turns, actually direct trains. So these problems aren't simple. This report speaks of them, but this agency has no role in solving these accumulated problems, of course the ministry and traffic, but not in this way how you interpret that it can be stuck overnight. We will now turn Croatian railways, along with all the faults they have had, which have been produced overnight for years, into a respectable company that will operate according to all the laws. And now, of course, there's no time, so maybe in the debate about road traffic and the relationship between those two traffics that are the way they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86098	And this replica is answered by the esteemed Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86099	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, I don't think a parliamentary representative should be estimating the steps of his other colleagues, are they great, excellent, or are they bad. The truth can be a little touching sometimes, but that truth didn't produce HDZ. This came out after that famous session of the SDP main committee when you replaced the personnel you assigned to a certain man within your own party. We were just escorts of these events. And then the agency comes along with their report stating three complaints. So read these complaints, what these people complain about within these societies, and just what the one who was in 2012 was the great and best director of HZ-Infrastructure. So what happened in six months or in a few days that he's not the best director anymore? So what we need to keep secret from Croatian citizens, so this is an event that sets out a certain path or fate for that company. If the minister was trying to solve it all, then why criminal proceedings if it was all for the good of one or the other. And what did DORH do? Well, it can't end such a serious accusation with his sentence, sir, that and that, thank you very much, congratulations, and we're all done, over. But you forgot what you were doing in 2010 and 2011, so what were those steps, was that good, bad, better? Well, you brought out what you thought you needed to bring out in order to warn the public. What's the problem if we're doing it now? So we're warning. We're asking what happened to those charges, is that someone playing? Well, it's not about 200 kuna, 500 kuna, it's about hundreds of millions of kuna. So let's not think it's negligible, and there's some kind of game in the backyard, and for me, it's not a normal situation. What's gonna happen? I don't want to be a judge, but I am warning you that through this report, we haven't received a general state and that, as such, perhaps in the future as a Parliament that should have discussed it, perhaps we shouldn't. What we're going to learn and move on, we're waiting for the next report no matter what's going on in that space.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86100	The next replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. By adopting EU legislation, Boric, the Republic of Croatia has intended the agencies to be independent regulators under some market conditions. However, because of this report as well as the inability to do so, agencies have become the subject and example in Croatia have raised inefficient administrations which, unfortunately, is not because there are agencies that have done a great job in recent years. Because this agency is doing what was established, and it is established that, regardless of political pressures, it regulates certain market conditions. And where someone in the market conditions of the economy wants to make sure that the agreed economy is responding. And the new 116 million agencies simply had to state this in their report for a simple reason, which is why if they close their eyes then they agree to unnatural and not market conditions in the Republic of Croatia for exactly what they are founded for. Because if the government wants one of its companies to write off a debt to another company, and that other company will lead to an unfavourable condition, then it is his responsibility to make up for it from the budget. This is clearly defined, and this agency should have simply reacted. If the agency had done so, in fact, if she had warned with three sentences of it as one unnatural behavior and some other things that are railways, then the agency would have justified its existence and then nobody would have even said why she's here or why she's there because she's engaged in a measure of things. And since the agency because of the policy, since it is clearly a policy that dictates what will be reduced to statistical reporting then unfortunately, it is no wonder that everyone is saying that the agencies should be abolished as the subject of a failed public administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86102	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86103	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here are the gentlemen from the agency. Those with this report, I mean especially for 2013 have almost nothing, so I believe that maybe you didn't want to say anything in the opening because in 2014. The government has attached this HACOM agency. The gentleman has been so far I mean Director of HACOM if I'm not mistaken and it may not be easy for him to defend this. But it's one process that lasts. Maybe this year 2013 was a problem. In 2014, this problem may be solved differently, but we are discussing what we have. And no one can convince me that what's written in these three complaints made in 2012 at the end of 12 months, so transferred to a decision in 2013 that it's not exactly what came out in 7 months I say after the conflict within certain political groups. And that's why we said clearly, HDZ does not support such a policy of leadership of these societies until the mutual relations of the most responsible in these portfolios are resolved by the minister with the management presidents, especially as the minister and member of the assembly, i.e. the only representative of the congregation of one of these societies. And whoever's telling me it's a normal situation we're saying we have a certain problem here. And then this is what I'm talking about. What's going to happen next will show here's the report on the state's attorney's work is over time, so we'll ask the state's attorney what's been done because they're not banal charges, they're not. But they were also backed up by certain written complaints that went to the agency. If it can't be solved for the benefit of users and societies themselves within that circle of people who put themselves through government, ministry. And where is that supposed to go? At least I don't know where. But that's not the progress of this society. And that's why I say we can't support this kind of work within these societies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86104	A new replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86105	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Boric, in your debate, you touched, of course, and pointed to a certain situation in the Croatian Railways. Of course, certain problems, you have supported this with certain statistics that are of course not good, discourage and sorrow, and we know what the importance of the railway is and the importance of the economy and everything. Of course, it doesn't encourage that wandering, let's say the lowly railroad, so the valley line, etc. But as we all know the best in our area of condition, so I'm going to say a few examples that also cite certain harmful approaches to, in terms of personnel, people, employees to be clearer, employees at certain stations. So here I know specifically about me Botovo Railway Station, these days he's in the public eye and it's about when we see how many of our floods we're struggling and how much sand is leaving this area to get into areas where it takes us to get enough material, not to buy the one where we go to reduce the number of employees. So I'm also thinking loudly about Koprivnica Station, the hub is always about the fact that some priority is given to Varazdin, and there's no logic in the law of physics, that we're not talking about the Gekenish transition. All of these areas have shown more traffic, bigger loads, more traffic, and ultimately they're going after it. This does not encourage, it does not make sense that this is a strategic approach and that in the future one significant one is expected of this corridor. Of course it's spoken all the time in Central Europe, etc. So, I think that this problem should be given to the importance, and of course not to reduce the number of employees who achieve positive results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86106	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86107	Well, colleague Milinkovic, you have set some practical examples and something that is close and familiar to you. I just want to repeat once again that these societies, unfortunately in 2013, are now becoming a slave to relations within the people who rule them and manage them from the minister to the president of the administration in 2014. And it all creates a bad picture, and unfortunately, in the end, that account is made either by workers or by themselves as users of the same system. And it's good as long as there aren't any foreign operators, which will be at that point will show time. But the announced shifts and boards of directors and supervisory boards during the summer, I don't know if they've been carried out, I haven't followed it to the end, they show that interpersonal relations have come to the lowest level, and there's something to be done. If it's wrong, Minister, let's replace the minister. If there was abuse, then let those who are in that system of ours set up to question whether or not it was some public telling us what happened. This is how it ends up on that minister's sentence, thank you, congratulations. And that's it. And that's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86108	Thank you. We'll stop working now, and we'll continue at 3:00. Thank you. Party at 13.25pm.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86109	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, The Party of Work Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86110	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, it's not the principal, it's until I remember how it's going. Well, about two years ago from this same place, I had a debate, though I think we were a little bit more than we are now, about this agency's report, and then I used a syntagma, and I said this was a travel agency's report to organise the travel of my own employees. Well, as far as I can tell, the situation hasn't changed, only now it's a little absurd to discuss this report since one team or one person prepared it, and now there's a chance or a problem to represent a whole other person and another agency is at stake. In some ways, the government listened to the advice or respected the opinion of the opposition MPs who proposed it with the fact that whether HACOM was the ideal solution, there was another, but well, in any case, it was good that there was, conditionally speaking, a reduction in the number of agencies. The question arises whether this reduction will also result in a reduction of the costs mentioned there, such as renting space in Jurisic's street which is in an extremely attractive location, I don't know why it is necessary to have it in that particular location, whether it is necessary to have so many trips in the white world that compete with the only governor of the CNB, Mr Vujčić, I think that he is the only one still in that category in Croatia with so many travels, and the effect of these trips and these missions is unfortunately visible every day when we open any daily newspaper, then we see that the situation in HZ is more than catastrophic. But I'm going back to the agency a little bit, this agency, the original Railway Market Regulatory Agency. If I remember correctly, and I remember for sure well, last year that agency filed a report saying they received 7 items. Out of those seven cases in five, they were declared incompetent, and two failed to settle in a year. These 2 outstanding cases are in this year, in this report, but it is interesting that the director of that agency, or the representative of the agency's administration, if I have followed well, as a punishment for his report now at the State Commission for Public Procurement Control. Since in the year seven cases were effectively pushed away, I'm afraid his control, on his part, of public procurement, is more than questionable, not to say, we can be sure that the effect will be almost equal. What kind of message are we sending? It doesn't matter if anyone works, doesn't work, whether it works, whether it's okay, whether they know, whether they don't know, whether they're mine. Well, it's a disaster. We had a similar discussion at the previous point about the conflict of interest, which we came to the conclusion? And now, through agencies like this, or people who prove themselves unhappily in that agency, we appoint the State Commission for Public Procurement Control. I think that's all she's saying to herself. The colleagues who spoke before me, or one, spoke, but in replicas, others mentioned complaints. Which is why only three complaints, with you taking care of those three two since last year, means practically one complaint. What does that tell you? That tells you, and I know from experience because I've been working on it, right on these jobs, it tells you that carriers are aware that they have no one to complain about and there's no point in complaining because those complaints were first sent to someone who has no idea what to decide, on the other hand he goes for his opinion to the infrastructure manager and there gets an opinion that normal goes is unilaterally going in favor of the infrastructure manager. And who's in the interest of that? It was those who forced this division of HZ and who forced privatisation. In this report also one positive shift. No more, at least I haven't noticed the indetermination of the law, the ambiguity of the law. And you know why? For the simple reason we asked the question last time when you suggested something, okay. The law isn't good you realized there was a vacuum that there was a hole in the law. What you suggested as a solution, you didn't even specify any laws, just a legal vacuum. So if you're going to have a chance to frame yourself and keep that in mind, I'm not saying that someone needs to be fired, but at least they need to make him fight for what he's employed for. A report on the network, counterpart Boris mentioned a report on the network and the parameters inside. I'm going to warn you about a problem that's really from the point of view of the profession. In the network report you do not stand anywhere, at a time when I was doing it it was called easy driving now are called at slow speed or reduced speed somehow so I do not know exactly either, but which do not enter the import order parameters, which is a public deception of service users. So you're saying that driving time from Zagreb to Karlovac will last 40 minutes and then keep it on one piece for two or three years because of the technical characteristics of the railway and it's no longer 40 minutes, it's 60 minutes, but then it's a whole schedule disorder, so it's no longer 60 but it's an hour and 40. But it's all going to harm the carrier. The consequences of this are the reduction of the number of trains in the timetable. The reduction in the number of trains in the timetable is due to the departure of passengers from those same trains because your passengers, at least for the most part, are focused on monthly tickets, this number of passengers that fell, is exactly that drop. And now make a situation that a man has something to come to work with but has nothing to go with or vice versa anyway or don't drive trains on Saturdays and Sundays. People who work shifts on Saturdays have nothing to come with. It is not worth buying a monthly ticket at the railway station and then every Saturday or every Sunday buying more bus or own transport. It then creates one closed circle and then we come up with this data that we have here. A little while ago, my colleague Schamper asked me if it was possible that this was such a fall, it's possible and that's the consequence directly of that. We have another absurd, if I'm not mistaken about half a year ago, we've been arguing about a loan-lifting HZ Infrastructure and buying where the state appears as a guarantee and buying two machines of new modern snowboarding. The two machines should be kept constantly open during the winter period of the Lika railway and railway for Rijeka. And we, as in the package, lift trains to Split. So who did we buy these machines to keep the railroad open if we shut down those trains that drive to Split? You know very well when those winter accidents come that the most reliable traffic is just a railroad. There are delays, it all stands, but there's always a way for traffic to work, and we're ending it now. Who's in the interest of what, why do you do it? Let me ask you, is it possible that these locomotives are intended for a private carrier that's registered precisely to the concept of what he got from HZ passenger transport contract so he can use HH passenger transport locomotives? Is that a conflict of interest? No, it's a crime before it's a conflict of interest. I'm going to look back at another detail that my colleague was talking about finance. Two years ago, I showed here for the first time the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's decision to write off the cost of using the route. The decision was taken by the government to the Slovenian Parliament and approved by the Slovenian Parliament, making a difference between their decision and ours. In our case, the minister decided on his own, followed by the State's Attorney's office's procedure, resulting from internal accounts within the ruling party. I advocate this thesis that these costs are imposed by the EU. I know we have to respect her but not that way. The fact is that low-tariff burdens costing transport are more expensive than cargo prices. If you don't transport them by rail, say from a quarry stone, if you don't carry them by rail, you'll be transporting them by trucks. Trucks are going down local roads, units of local self-government are going down. They're moving on to state roads that again, they have to finance themselves again. That makes sense to leave it, but it has to be done transparently to know what it's about, who's doing it, and why it's doing it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what other countries in the world do. Well, just for information, the German Transport Minister said there is no European Commission to force him to share German railways. But we're smarter than the Germans, so we'll share ours, we'll share what one of our colleagues said today, sell out all ours because it's better managed. The same minister when I mentioned it to the board said the Germans would be forced to do so. I just don't know who's gonna force them, I guess. During the Council of Ministers meeting that took place this June 5th and 6th, a fourth railway package was also discussed, as well as the fourth railway package. I must commend you that the only one of the HSZ and SDP representatives in the European Parliament is the only one who has declared that against it, I will not name it, do not be afraid. But he was the only one who obviously followed the situation and knew what it was about. And the Slovenian State Secretary's comment at the same meeting was that the Slovenian position that this area is trying to be excessively regulated without at the same time discussing the issue of rail transport or railway safety. He explained that Slovenia, that Slovenia believes that such provisions will only increase the costs of smaller operators and reduce their competitiveness and that they believe that what was previously prescribed should be implemented first. Our minister was there and kept his mouth shut. When he filed a report at a joint session of the two committees, I asked him if he thought it wasn't small enough for our operators to protect them, or that they were large enough not to need protection or simply raised his hands from our operators and said it was already an adaptation. He replied, of course, that Croatia will take a position where it will protect national smaller operators such as Croatia. That takeover has a consequence that we're practically having a completely collapsed railroad system. But since there have been comments on previous discussions on this side so I will remind myself of one of my discussions being very bile on this side, so it is said that Croatia will never sell and privatise its railways or its operators, look at the phonogram, I have it. But it is also said that we will make our railways proud like the French railways, the pride of the French state. It was like that. It's just another sentence, one word from the guy that we're going to fill the state budget with the railroads. [[Invader Batinić: Time colleagues.]] Find me one such example in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86111	Thank you. We have one replica. Mile Horvat, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86112	Thank you. In your discussion on the work of the agency, you said mostly what the media had already written, so you referred to the Jurisic lease, on these trips around the world, it has a system, it can be etc. And then you said there was a catastrophic situation in the railroad and the whole system was destroyed. I would remind here only of some data that say today comparatively that in Germany trains go at an average speed of 200 kilometers and Austrians even try the train on the stock from Graz to Berlin and aim at 230 kilometers of target speed and, of course, it requires large investments. Before the war, we had an average speed of 100 miles [60 km], and now we fell somewhere below 80 kilometers [80 km] of average speed. It says how strong our railroad is, good, equipped and competitive, which is the most important thing. So, the European Union, or Europe, is, that is, the fact that it is completely turning to rail transport and is aimed at 60% of the traffic to go across the railway because it is more environmentally acceptable, because it is safer with regard to others, especially air transport, etc., etc. So where are we in that whole story. And the next thing I'd like to say, of course, is that the final consequence of the erosion of that system and the dismissal of workers and I can't say again, and I've already pointed out to you the fact that HZ CARGO, on the route of Karlovac Pula, fired almost 50% of its workers, is the fact that the largest number of members of Serbian nationality. Why, because in this area they only live on the railroad, they live on the sawmills, we know what the relationship to the sawmills is, just like this first segment. So these people in Moravica, Ogulin, Gomir needs to be told you don't have a chance to live because you don't have sawmills, you don't have railroads, you don't have school anymore, you don't have mail and you leave that space. So and just one sentence, I think you know the fact that this number of workers can't meet all the needs that are currently railways... [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86113	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Novak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86114	Thank you. So regarding the surplus, I understand you but also in other areas where the employees are exclusively Croats or some other people have also become excess for reasons not because they are members of that people but because it simply destroys everything and closes everything. I will also remind you of the fact that the government decided to go, with Gredelje going into bankruptcy, it is said in a word that this is the only way to save him and that 44 modern low floor Croatian trains will be built there. The beam still exists today if I'm not mistaken for 460 employees, with the tendency by the end of the year to have 0 employees. Probably the bankruptcy manager will be left alone. Now, if I'm not mistaken, he hasn't been on the road long in Central Asia, he probably arranged for the sale of modern trains, one of these 44 that's gonna roll with stripes that are different technical characteristics, the width of the track and everything else, but he doesn't care anyway because he doesn't bother. We sell Pručni gradina, the most successful construction company in Croatia, we sell it. There are 2 billion and some arranged jobs, 2 billion and some kuna, some hundreds of thousands of kunas. We sell it if I'm not mistaken for 130 million kunas. Not us, it's being sold by whoever has the option. For what? What's the motive for that? What you said about workers, you need to tell people openly, you don't have a perspective here, you really don't have a perspective because it's obvious that everything is going to be destroyed. And I'd like to ask you a question to make sure that Adria is a private carrier registered, whether... the costs of transport and structure...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86115	Comrade Novak, your time is up. We're continuing the debate. Grubisic-Kaja's Club of Representatives. They're gone. They're losing their right to debate. Next up for debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86116	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The President-in-Office of the Management Council of HACOM and the Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP representative club proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept the Agency's report on the regulation of the rail market for 2013. This is the fifth report by the Agency which was established in 2009 and since then shows a description of the market situation and its activities. Since its establishment, as noted in previous reports, the agency has also focused efforts on establishing the necessary administrative and professional capacity to carry out quality tasks under its jurisdiction. The lack of legal framework and implementation of European legislation and the absence of new operators in the market have led to a lack of greater positive quality impacts and more appropriate service management. In 2013, there was a significant change in the legal framework applicable to the regulation of the rail market. The new Law on Railways adopted in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a single European railway area. In June of this year, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications and the new Law on the Regulation of the Market in Railway Services was established by a single national regulatory body for the regulation of the electronic communications market, postal services markets and rail markets called the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities. The institutional change in the form of a regulatory body through the establishment of a common regulator should be apostrophe of the network industry so far and should also lead to better regulation and remove the difficulties associated with the growth of transport in the future. The railway services market on which... acts as a regulator is a market involving the relationship between infrastructure manager and railway undertakings, and related to access to rail infrastructure and the use of all rail services, and does not include the relationship between the railway undertaking and the transport user related to the transport of goods and passengers. In July 2013, the Republic of Croatia became a full member of the European Union, and the railway network of the Republic of Croatia became part of the European Union's entire railway infrastructure. The technical description of the railway infrastructure is contained in the Network Report, the basic act of the infrastructure manager which is publicly published, and speaks of the length and type of railway infrastructure, as well as of the capacities, capabilities and characteristics of its use. HZ-Infrastructure as infrastructure manager in the Republic of Croatia manages 2722 km of normal track track. Of these, there are slightly more than half the length of the line of international transport, a little more than a fifth of the line of regional transport and a little less than a quarter of the length of the local railways. Of the total length of the track, 6.2% is electric and 9.3% is bi-colossal. Structure of transport trains in 2013. In freight transport there were 89 655 trains, which is 25.68% of the total traffic trains. There were 259 413 trains in passenger transport, 74.32% of the total traffic trains. There was a trend in the decline in the number of passengers transported in rail transport, while the passengers transported during the same period in road, air, maritime and coastal transport remained quite stable, noting that mild growth was recorded in road transport in 2013 compared to 2012 and that it held a leading position in the number of passengers transported. In the transport of passengers to road transport, 58% are waste and 28% are transported, while in freight transport this ratio is higher than road transport of 65% and rail only 11%. The most important activity of the Railway Market Protection Agency is the appeal procedures aimed at ensuring the protection of the rights laid down by the regulations on the functioning of the rail market. In view of the fact that only two carriers operate in the Republic of Croatia, one of which is a historical monopolist for passenger transport, and the other historical monopoly for freight transport, this regulatory body had only three complaints during 2013. In view of this, the core activity of the Agency has been carried out through official duties through analysis and monitoring of the state of competition in the rail market and monitoring of all conditions, phenomena and indicators in the rail market, and in response to further data supply and the obvious requests for clarification of advisory meetings, and the taking and imposing measures aimed at removing barriers to the functioning of the rail market. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is the procedure for the analysis of fees for the use of railway services, which is, in the majority of the report, also mentioned and makes up the largest part of the report. Assessment of the compliance of the draft timetable 2014 with the Law on Railways, assessment of the impact of the instructions on the procedure for drawing up and conclusion of the contract in the HZ-Infrastructure on the rail market, the procedure for analysis of the decision on first amendments and additions to the 2014 network report and the regulatory financial reports. The report also mentions cooperation with other regulatory authorities in the rail markets of different countries, which is particularly important in order to establish a single EU rail market, stating that the functioning of the single market is not fully realised due to technical discrepancies since each Member State needs to resolve and define all such issues in its national legislation. Finally, we can conclude that this report is complete and shows all the activities that the agency carried out in 2013. Whether or not we were satisfied with these activities, whether the agency could have done more in terms of appeal procedures because all previous years the agency complained that there was insufficient legal framework and that they had not had sufficient capacity. That's another question. However, what has been done here is mentioned and therefore the SDP Representatives' Club proposes to the Croatian Assembly to accept the Agency's 2013 report on the work of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86117	Thanks, buddy. We have one replica, Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86118	It was just from your opening part that the European directive ordered us to divide the Croatian railways of the former, whole system into three parts of HZ Travel, HZ Cargo and HZ Infrastructure. That doesn't stand. There is a suggestion at the end of some of the European administrations have retained an existing form as holding. The only thing that stands in these European directives is that funding must be separated, but the division of society is what we have done that no regulation obliges us. The comparison you gave between rail and road transport. You yourself said that roadways are in a slight increase compared to railways. There is now a real possibility that someone can say given this fragmentation that we have done to organise the city and suburban transport of the city of Zagreb which is the only one that is profitable, which cannot be covered. Then we'll say that HH passenger transport even though it's subsidized to lose the rest of the market. Normally, by its laws, the government through the Ministry through the administration practically makes it possible. Since I already have my word, I'm going to mention that not all administrations don't even occur to me to defend one, but they weren't as bad as they sometimes have impossible tasks. Or they have homework here and there to get that and that task and then they're constantly thrown into the wheels. Then they keep getting the impossible assignments, something that just doesn't have anything to do with brains. So I have to admit that among these administrations, though, I would rarely single out individuals, not administrations that have done a valuable job but in continuity when we look at disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86119	Thank you. The answer to the replica of my colleague, Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86120	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Novak. So, briefly related to the very division of society. True, you say here when it comes to finance. In fact, it was also the main objection that it was actually unsolved in a legal sense regarding the jurisdiction and division of financial obligations between the main society and the society to call them daughters. The division allowed clean relations to be realized, and this report, in fact, when we talk about complaints and there is actually a problem, and that was also touched in the previous debate, that precisely because there are only two operators and that they are not marketly prepared and maybe it is fortunate that there are only two. 'Cause if there was someone else who knew how to get through that game. And in terms of payment of debts towards infrastructure, it actually happened that those companies that have a huge number of employees cannot function under these market conditions. In what way, you're talking about models now if new players show up to say so in that game that then, how will the railroads actually survive in the future? It is certainly a question that is difficult to answer, but the restructuring process is necessary in the Croatian Railways and it happens whether several of the interested customers will appear. But in any case, change is necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86121	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Željko Shemper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86122	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the respected representatives of the agency, colleagues and colleagues. This is already the fifth report of this agency showing a description of the situation on the rail market in its jurisdiction. One of the tasks is to monitor the situation and decide on disputes on the application of the Law on Railways between the infrastructure manager and the HH passenger transport carrier and HZ Cargo. Furthermore, the Agency's competence and the handling of complaints by railway undertakings against decisions of the infrastructure manager, supervision of the negotiations of three companies, granting consent to the appointment of the infrastructure manager. I, and probably a large number of 24 million passengers in the last year, were most interested in monitoring the quality of the service provided by the HZ passenger transport carrier. Unfortunately, there is no word in this report on the quality of passenger transport services and in that part of HH's activities we have the most objections. It is clear that Croatian citizens cannot expect the kind of service passengers in Japan have in terms of accuracy, speed and security. But that service must be better than it is today. Our trains are running late because of the reconstruction of railways or emergency situations in railways, because of old locomotives and wagons. As a result, workers are late for work, students for exams and lectures, pensioners for scheduled medical examinations and shootings. All these problems are the worst lack of information in cases of failure to respect the timetable, or train delays. The train stops or doesn't start in time, the passengers lose their nerve and time, they have no information from the train staff, which is the problem, which is why it's late and when it comes to the destination. Statistical indicators also show that the largest quantity of goods was transported by road traffic in 2013 by around 58% and that the proportion of goods transported by rail by type of transport in the total quantity of goods transported was only 26%. And the number of passengers transported in 2013 is lower by as much as 12.7% compared to 2012 and even 51% compared to 2011. According to the report, the most important activity of the agency was the appeal procedures of two carriers, one of which was a monopolist for passenger transport, and the other also a monopolist for freight transport, and in this most important activity, the agency received only 3 complaints by letter and by number during 2013. According to the Law on Railways, this agency is responsible for implementing Regulation No. 1371 on the rights and obligations of passengers in rail transport, and in this report, as far as I've asked, I've found nothing on passenger problems. What's good in the report is statistics showing us data on the volume of passenger and freight traffic, which is one of the most important indicators of the state of the rail market. HH infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia operates 2722 km of track, and of which the number is 36% electrified. In 2013, there were 89 thousand trains in freight transport, which is about 26% and 259 thousand trains in passenger transport, which is about 74%. The 2013 data show a reduction in the number of passengers and burdens transported, and the reason it says the report should be sought in reduced business activity due to recession not only in the Republic of Croatia but throughout Europe. Looking from the passenger position, we are at least interested in relations and problems between the two carriers and HZ infrastructures regarding the compensation of railway services, the problem of harmonising the timetable, the use of garage tracks, electricity bills, etc. Passengers are primarily interested in the safety of travel, the price of transport, the removal of individual lines as well as transport according to the order of travel. Of course, the condition for this greater investment in HZ infrastructure has been neglected in favour of expensive highways for the last decade. Priorities are directions L1 east-west Dobova-Tovarnik and direction L2 north-South Botovo-Rijek, which carry as much as 74% of freight transport in total freight transport operation. The esteemed presidents of the Board of Directors will support this report because of their efforts and fine statistics, but we appeal that the 2014 Report will not forget about passengers and supervision of the quality of the provision of services in passenger transport, which is most important for a large number of passengers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86123	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Dragutin Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86124	You said that the passenger trains on the Croatian railways are late. That is not true, since counterpart Novak spoke of it, so the order of travel in Croatian railways especially for passenger transport exists but there is another category called reduced speed. It used to be called slow driving, so trains in Croatia are not late but have reduced speed and then come a little later. That's the only truth. And look it's by the standards that we got as a state report in that part, so not late, they just have reduced speed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86125	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Shemper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86126	So here I was, for example, on Saturday, traveling on a business train Zagreb-Osjek, but at the beginning it was supposed to start at 15.07 and it started at 15.34. No staff, you don't know what we're standing for, the snow hasn't fallen, the passengers don't know anything, the conductor's gone. That's what I was talking about missing that information. It may happen, but in this case, we later found out it was a malfunction on a car, so it was supposed to be left out of the composition, but people need to know how much it would cost, when it would start and when it would come. That would be a real attitude towards the passengers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86127	Thank you, too. Next replica, Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86128	Thank you very much. A colleague not because of the beautiful statistics and the beauty of statistics, you have cited a quote from the report, which is why a drastically reduced number of passengers should be sought in a reduced business activity in the middle of a recession that has affected the whole of Europe and so on Croatia. But in Europe, the number of passengers does not fall, but only in Croatia. So it can't be the same cause. The cause was yours when you responded to the previous line. The fact is that the system doesn't work because the em legal framework that's set up where the disaster is, em are internal disaster regulations, and unfortunately we have such a negative selection of personnel that it's one convenient example that should probably be taken in all business schools by people like this doesn't work. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86129	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86130	Well, here I am, in my debate, quoting what it says in the report that the reasons are. However, I was really frantic about the reduction in the number of passengers by comparing the number of passengers in 2011 with 49 million passengers compared to 2013 last year when there were 24 million. It's a 51% drop. Unlike freight, there is no such drop, although the decline is quite high but only 9% compared to these 51% in passenger transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86131	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives' Club, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86132	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Gentlemen from HACOM, colleagues and colleagues. Who are we going to talk to today about the problem of the report on the work of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency for 2013? Who are we talking to today? Director of HACOM. The man listens, smiles and so on, simply endures all these discussions, and in these discussions we have the full right to criticise what is done on the Croatian railways, although the agency itself, according to its statutes, rules and rules, cannot say that it does not contribute so much to the damage that the state and this government is doing to the Croatian railways. I used to talk in my discussions about the railroad in Slavonski Brod. When the centre, a railway hub was transferred from Slavonski Brod to Vinkovce, therefore, a railwayicide was made because there were only 150 to 200 employees left in Slavonski Brod, 800 disappeared. So it's done, what's like genocide, etocide, and ironicide. Now I can speak freely that this government with this minister, Mr. Hajdash Doncic, has made the railways in all of Croatia loud and clear. Well, we'll have to say it in English. [[Now say it in English.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now let's say... the port of trinkets has become the way we listen and watch the other day on our Croatian television, as much as it is now ours, so to public television, the port of tampering. What does that mean, onions? The first EU port in which non-original ships from EU countries can obtain service, cargo, cargo and... their supplies, so that's the case. And now the river has been declared a port of trinkets. What does that mean? That there is an increased possibility of overloading and loading in Rijeka Luka. What does that mean? That there is no Croatian carrier who can transfer goods from Rijeka port further. So we stay at the port of Rijeka and the cargo can stand in the harbor, unload, overload, but no one can translate it. Why? Well, because HZ Cargo is maimed. HH Cargo is totally, almost totally ruined. There are some private carriers, I know that, so there is. We also know that they have benefits in their relationship with the state, starting with the tax and other donations and that they are also giving jobs, etc. Why? Well, because there's no state attitude to it, there's no agency's attitude to it. Even they want HZ Cargo to disappear from the scene, the economic scene of Croatia. HZ Cargo to, I guess, prevent me from speaking to the railroad in Slavonski Brod, they transferred HZ Cargo to the centre of Slavonski Brod. Thank you very much. What's going on? The intermodal cargo station in Spačva, which was also part of Vinkovaci, has now definitely healed into ambrosia, and the centre of Carga has been transferred to Slavonski Brod because Slavonski Brod is allegedly an international railway station. How international? So he's supposed to have a railroad with the Bosnian ship, so he's with Bosnia, and there's no track to the Bosnian ship. But there will be a track on another bridge that will be built in one 150, as well as Peljaski, in one 150 years. So, the port of Brod, the entrepreneurial zone, will have a track with a main station in Slavonski Brod, and a bridge that will go to Bosnia, a new bridge, will be made by who knows when and where. So HZ Cargo overloads goods in Slavonski Brod from 10th to 16th August, and on these same colossiums there is an ambrosia of capital, a separation of the terrain and the background on which these colossians are located, and therefore there is a leap of wagons and trains on the ranch, as it would say, a station in Slavonski Brod. HZ infrastructure invested 18 million kunas in the reconstruction of the train station building in Slavonski Brod, without restoring the railways in Slavonski Brod, so last year's wagon with no idea how many dozens of tons... turned to the 10th track in Slavonski Brod, and two cars jumped out recently, and they don't write a newspaper about it because it was covered up, two wagons on the 16th track in Slavonski Brod. What would happen if that car that rolled over and broke up, so what would you say in Slavonic was filled with gas, oil or any other dangerous chemical? But it was loaded... so thank God something got picked up from that, so they made caramels later. Other accidents and even those that are not spoken of in public but are hidden and muffled and therefore, the media are not processed, not to speak. These were discussed by counterpart Boris in his first report, i.e. the first debate, so that we should not talk. Almost daily passengers and goods are at risk of transportation to Croatian railways. 80km average speed of Croatian railways. Well, that wasn't for Austro-Hungarian either. When you come from Slavonski Brod yes, our installers working in the shipyard because there are no jobs in Rijeka at 9:00 p.m. on the train to Rijeka left in twenty to nine minutes. God forbid the order of the stalker, and this should be regulated by this regulatory agency so that people arrive by train from Slavonia to Rijeka on the same night in the same ride with some precedent as I did from Mannheim to Munich, so in Munich... with spaces of five minutes of everything, the exact train always arrives at the same time and there is no delay. It's just utopia and nothing else, unfortunately it's just utopia. When we had the HDZ government, then we had in the budget how much it belonged to a billion and 300 million, so it was moving maybe Mr. Shucker knows better. Now we have government guarantees we no longer have direct assistance in cash than as a guarantee of the government, so there is something of a toll where we pay in fuel 450 million and of road traffic is directed towards HZ in order to make up for those billions and 300, and in fact it's the same flow from hollow to empty. So what do we got? While we have the pride of France, the French railways, while we have TTV trains, while we have the pride of the German railway in Croatia, the railway dies and dies. Mr. Shemper said that the transport of passengers and cargo is carried out on two tracks. One is Botovo-Rijeka, and the other is Dobova-Tovarnik, so two directions, is that 5B and this one once called the 10 railway pan-European corridor. Now it's not called that anymore because it's not pan-European, it's the second league west. No more pan-European corridors. So these two corridors account for 75% of total rail traffic, although the traffic as said by fellow Boric, quoting this report that the number of passenger trains in passenger transport is lower by 3.34% compared to 2012, that the number of passengers transported is lower by 13%, that the number of freight trains is lower by 8% compared to the previous year, and the amount of goods transported by less than 2% compared to the previous year. So the Croatian railway is sinking, and it could have been, ask railway officers and railway workers who are retired. They pride themselves on being Croatian railwaymen. It's one service that's been giving these people what they want, so the railroad educates them, they're Mr. Railways. In socialism there were railway men, and when you meet the conductor, then you have awe for him, according to the train driver, for those who knock those wheels on the wagons. Each of them was doing his job. Well, someone here was talking about 44 bending, rolling trains, low floor trains that were supposed to be built by the Gredell. The beam's in bankruptcy. I don't know who's gonna make trains. I guess that's why he's in bankruptcy so the domestic industry doesn't accidentally get those trains to work. Locomotives, the engines are being sent to Belgium, Belgium, not Gredell. Engines of the locomotive are going to repair in Belgium. It's closer, I guess. I'm saying all of this because maybe it doesn't have that much to do with the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency, the Railway Market Regulatory Agency, and it actually has everything to do with it. Passenger traffic takes 4 months to reconstruct the station in Slavonski Brod, started on a date of interesting 10 April of this year and ended in August of this year, 4 months of passengers do not drive from Slavonski Brod to railways. It will be in the next report that there are even fewer passengers because passengers from the Bosnian Brod, from Derventa from nearby Bosnian towns, came to the station in Slavonski Brod. The Republika Srpska were then travelling to Munich and Western European countries or towards Serbia and Belgrade, etc. Now it didn't work anymore. Three days ago, on Saturdays there was a market in Slavonski Brod, so one HZ Cargo employee told me that he had asked his boss at the centre of HZ Cargo in Slavonski Brod if he could bring his lawnmower and cut the grass on the track in Slavonski Brod. He told him don't play so you wouldn't happen to think you'd be cutting grass on the track in Slavonski Brod with your lawn mower. But the man couldn't take it anymore, so he asked HZ Cargo why he didn't cut the grass, he said he had no money for the gas for the lawnmower, to settle from 10th till 16. The Colossians, and I believe that's true in Slavonski Brod, and I believe that's true in other stations and in other train stations in the state. Go through Slavonia and see what these little stations or railways look like, starting with Trnjan, Sibinj, Lužana, etc. I'm not gonna name the other names right now. It's gonna take me a long time. What happens to leadership at the time would be said in the former HZ dictionary? like horns in a bag, changing the furniture as compositions of a locomotive on compositions in Dobova, every 6 months the new director. And in fact they all have their own private and other interests so there are among them those who have false degrees of engineers' organization of work acquired in some countries former... /Speakers speak at the same time, not understood.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86133	My colleague Grubisic, I would like to ask you to say something about the agency's work as well. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86134	So I'm talking about the leadership of the Croatian Railways is inadequate with its tasks to improve the work of the Croatian Railways in order to make it easier for the Croatian Railway Market Regulatory Agency. [[Invader Batinić: I don't think what you're saying has much to do with it.]] And finally, this 2.5 million kuna spent by this agency, it says in a report on three cases she's been looking at, imagine, in three cases every 800 thousand kuna spent by this agency with 10 employees. I'm talking about the agency now. So, everybody said it only I can't say it. About the criminal charges filed by the former director of the railway infrastructure towards the minister and destroying, so we could all file criminal charges because there is so much, we talked about both Georgia and the persistent negotiation of HH, about the sale of HZ CARGO with Georgia when that hop, one morning Grujo arrested. And the minister is still the minister. No, he knew nothing about Georgia or knew how Grujo was doing but Romanian police and Europol and OLAF know exactly who Grujo was. Why were you talking so persistently only to Georgia and not to other good bidders that, here I am no more.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86135	There, that's good, I'm done... [[Upadica Batinić: Thank you, fellow Grubisic, your time is up.]] You have two replicas, you will be able to replicate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first replica Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86136	Comrade Grubisic, you said in your introduction to whom we speak today, and that is where you essentially guessed the essence of this report, which we are telling today. We're talking to an agency that has 10 people, who according to their budget figures for their salaries and the cost of the agency spent about 2.5 million kuna, about an agency that doesn't seem to exist. Since the Government, or the Minister, has made such a decision to bring the agency into contact with another agency that is not within the law of the prescribed authority to be discussed by the agency. And the fact is that a special topic should be opened about the railway because this report and everything that's going on, and that shift of HZ infrastructure management is also a question of what it is, is it really a crime, where the budget money of the citizens of this country is being spent. If the president of the administration is replaced in such a drastic way suddenly and this one announces a criminal application immediately after the shift, now the question is whether he has replaced him because he did not want to do something that was not in accordance with the law or has been removed because someone has politically determined it. But the agency itself and everything that the railway used to be and you touched it practically has no need to exist either because no one, no institution was as regulated as the Croatian railways at the very beginning and not during Yugoslavia where the tariffs and all possible rules were regulated literally to the last letter. At this point, everything that's been going on since the train was cut off, from the slow ones. /Speaker disabled./... [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86137	Comrade Klaric, time's up. Reply to the replica of his colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86138	Thank you very much. You quoted my inquiry to whom we are speaking because the present gentleman himself did not take the opening statement to defend his report, as Minister Ostojić said, although it is not necessary to defend the report but to explain the report. I would tell on your entire replica who the bells ring, we'll hear and we'll see. Maybe when this government leaves power.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86139	Thank you. Next replica, Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86140	Thank you very much. In the opening part, you were saying that the agency doesn't exist, which we're actually talking about. The problem is, I don't think anything bad about you not underestimating you, the problem is really, who we're talking to, does anyone who has the authority to change something about it? These people can make a report that will be the same, not to say as bad as this, they can make a great report, they can be, I don't know, give their effort, make suggestions unlike the former agency, propose some changes, a lot of things they can do much better, but the question of whether it will come to those who decide, or whether there will be an understanding on their part. You mentioned the minister's relationship, I think, and today, it's his statement that, without any remorse, he's going to send the company into bankruptcy with 3.5 thousand employees. I think it's so much about the words of the minister who before that made him make a modern and modern railroad, in what way to shut it down. I think it's really frantic that someone can still stay in that place after such a statement. And I'd warn you about something that you're not exactly directly, but you asked indirectly, financing. The other day, Minister Lalovac said the railways will not be financed and more and the mail, and I don't know what he mentioned from the budget, but it will be financed from the European Union's funds. I don't know if he's aware that there are certain restrictions that you can't finance from the European Union's funds, say transporting sugar tails during the campaign if in the meantime you destroy a local carrier,... I'm sure they won't transport it to you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86141	Thank you. Answer to the replica of my colleague Grubisic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86142	Thank you very much. A colleague, Novak, when it came to the fact that Djura Djakovic's director, some Kovacevic, had brought Djuru Djakovic into losses and he was making wagons, so he was tied to the railways so as not to remind me of our vice president, so he brought the railway to minus 150 million kuna and that the only rescue was credit via HBOR. Then Mr. Maras himself told me that there's no way that he, as a member of the board of directors at HBOR, would approve such a loan because he wouldn't put money in a bag without a bottom. It's Djuro Djakovic for him. I also believe Mr. Transport Minister is thinking when he talks about HZ-Carg. Since he failed to sell to whoever he wanted it to, then it's best to go bankrupt and HZ-Cargo. If these words of ours will reach out to whoever they need to reach, I'd say in his own dictionary... nod, I don't know, we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86143	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Mirela Holly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86144	Thank you, Vice President. Here, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to refer the question to the representatives of the agency now HACOM, before the Agency for the Regulatory of Market Services in Railways, as it is already called, or as the Agency, whether they are bound by the Transport Development Strategy adopted in the Croatian Parliament in 1999. Of course they are bound by the law on the basis of which the agency is formed and of course they are bound by otherwise documentation, a legislative package which is related to this sector, but I think that they should also, in large part, refer to a strategic document, namely what the Croatian Parliament in 1999 drew as a strategic document in terms of the overall development of traffic in the Republic of Croatia. I will remind here that the strategy of traffic development that was adopted in the Parliament is as I mentioned in '99. in the year, that this strategy has not been achieved today according to the plan because most of the investment was aimed at road and road traffic, and all the other borders of traffic, and there is a large amount of rail traffic mentioned here, remained significantly less than planned. Transport and traffic flows have mostly not reached pre-war numbers. The biggest lack of traffic relative to the pre-war situation is in the railway transit right now. The total freight traffic on the railway is below half the prewar, and makes it mainly local traffic. By not respecting the provisions of the Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, as well as by failing to monitor the return or growth of transport and the need to build infrastructure and invest in transport resources, growth, GDP and the possibility of segregation for the transport system, there has been a very large discrepancies, the development of transport infrastructure in favour of roads, and to the detriment of all other transport branches. Investments in certain branches, such as subsidies and grants to railways, are unfortunately and are largely poured into employees’ salaries so as to ultimately not solve the problems of these transport branches but to prolong its agony. As everyone knows, the transport sector is also extremely important in terms of environmental protection, i.e. the climate package, because the transport sector is an extremely significant energy consumer and in the energy balance of Croatia, its share is significant 33.9% in direct energy consumption. And if the share of direct consumption energy, transport energy, electricity is observed, and this should play an extremely important role in railways and electrified railways, it participates with only 1.2%, natural gas with 0.04% and ingested oil gas with 3.1%. Diesel fuel and motor gasoline account for up to 87.8% in direct energy consumption, while road transport participates with 88.4% in direct energy consumption. Here I recall that in April 2014, the European Parliament adopted the Directive on the Development of Alternative Fuel Infrastructure in Transport adopted by the Council of the European Union this fall, and the directive aims to encourage the use of alternative fuels in transport such as hydrogen, natural gas and electricity to reduce dependence on the import of fossil fuels and carbon dioxide in the transport sector. This is not the decision of the European Union because someone from lobbying circles likes it, but because of the fact that it is necessary to reduce the burden of road traffic and its adverse effects on the environment, in accordance with the 20-20-20 plan, that almost 40% of traffic in all EU Member States is rerouted to intermodal transport by 2020, i.e. to potentiate international and national transport focused on railways and coastal and internal navigation. Further plans focus on increasing the share of intermodal transport. By 2030, 30% of road freight transport at a distance greater than 300 km should be rerouted to other modes of transport such as railways and water transport, and by 2050 even 50%. Unfortunately, today in Croatia, the share of railways in total freight transport is 18%, significantly less than the European average, and in this transport sector extremely large and significant investments in infrastructure and modernisation are necessary. What we had the opportunity to see and read in this report, unfortunately, cannot make us happy and satisfied, and I would like to quote here what it says on page 17. The number of passengers transported in 2013 is lower by 12.7% compared to 2012, and is 44.6% compared to 2011. The number of passenger kilometres in 2013 is lower by 21.6% compared to 2012 and by 41.8% compared to 2011. The quantity of goods transported in 2013 is lower by 2% compared to 2012, and by 7.8% compared to 2011. The number of net tonne-kilometres in 2013 is by 7.2% compared to 2012, and by 11.1%) compared to 2011 as shown in Table 14. In view of the fact that during 2013, not one kilometer of Croatian railways has been electrified, then we can conclude that things in this sector are extremely bad. And it is my impression that this report is not sufficiently serious about this problem, and we must bear in mind the fact that it is an extremely important sector, a strategic sector, and that the railway must not really be on the turn of events in Croatia's overall development strategy. And in this respect, I ask the representatives of HACOM, the former Regulatory Agency, to work more seriously to give this sector the very important importance it has in the EU, and I hope it will have in the coming year and in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86145	Thank you. We have one replica. Comrade Neklic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86146	Well, here's my colleague Holly, I really agree with you that disrespecting the strategy is a really big problem. Of course, a great proportion between investment in the road and rail has led to this state of our railway infrastructure, and there I would absolutely support all those efforts to invest as much money in the railways as possible in the future and to raise rail traffic to a level that actually deserves it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86147	Thank you. We're done with an individual discussion. Mr Drazen Lucic, the president of the Management Council of HACOM, spoke for the word, finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86148	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, everyone. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. First of all, I would like to thank you for your constructive proposals to improve the work of both regulators and the situation on the rail market. I would remind you as an introduction that now already former Railway Market Regulatory Agency has submitted this report to the Croatian Assembly for 2013 according to the already former Law on the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications and the new Law on Regulation of the Railway Markets which entered into force on 16 June this year, the Agency for the Regulation of the Markets in Railway Services has ceased to exist and has been attached to the functional Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for the part of HACOM. A new independent national regulatory body was created by the Croatian Network Activities Regulatory Agency, which retained its shortened name HACOM. Due to all this annual report, I am now representing the former Railway Market Regulatory Agency as president of the Council of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities. The new Law on Regulation of the Railway Markets has met the preconditions for the stronger functioning of regulators in the second half of this year, especially in the future. The accession of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency to HACOM will reduce the overall costs of regulation of the rail market and will be financed at market fees, not as so far from the state budget. I note that for the work of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency for this year 2014, an indicative amount of around 3 and a half million kuna was provided for, and with the accession of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency to HACOM, the total number of employees in these two regulators has been reduced with an increase in labour efficiency due to the same joint services and due to the work of part of experts on the regulation of several markets which HACOM is now regulated. It is also a trend in the EU of curative regulators for everything that is a network and everything that is a liberalised market. Examples are also large countries in the EU such as Germany, Spain, the Netherlands, and some smaller countries such as Slovenia and Latvia, with the historically oldest regulator, which is the one for telecommunications that unites those regulators, which is the unifier. I would go back to some of your constructive proposals and comments, and it is certain that when HACOM submits a full report next year for all regulated markets, which are electronic communications, postal services, radio-television, rail services, will improve this report according to the comments and suggestions you have made, and will normally try to improve and regulate the rail market. We will certainly highlight the general state of the rail market in the Republic of Croatia as we do for the existing markets that we regulate. I would point out that by liberalising the rail freight market, we currently have three carriers in the Republic of Croatia. Apart from HZ Carg they are Adria transport and RCC Royal cargo carryer, and will likely be more in the future. However, they do not get a permit from HACOM but from the Railway Safety Agency, some other institutions in the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about the protection of users and the introduction of effective inspection services the quality of rail services in the annual HACOM work programme already for this year, it is envisaged to introduce an effective inspection service based on experience that we already have from the postal services market and especially in the electronic communications market. Finally, I would stress that HAKOM is just one of the factors in the rail market and we will make sure that together with the other factors we contribute to a significantly better situation on this market because not only are we not the only factors but the decisions we make which are important for the development of the market are also consequently linked to the decisions of other institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Normally, together with others, we will try to improve the situation on the railway market, taking into account, inter alia, the new Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86149	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86150	Annual report on the work of the Railway Market Regulation Agency for 2013. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency for 2013 is hereby adopted. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. We find that we have accepted the conclusion by majority vote, 79 votes in favour, 27 against and 13 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86151	We're continuing at 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the General Tax Code, first reading, P.Z. No. 626 Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers – Labour Party. You've received the motion for an act. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. I thank Mr. Lucic with an associate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Is it on behalf of the proposer? Mr. Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86152	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President. For an introduction to the reasoning of this law, just a reminder. The Croatian Parliament, by virtue of the law, introduced a tax code to the taxpayers. And that created the conditions to publish the so-called. a list of taxpayers. Some have also called it a list of shames, but I will use a terminology that is appropriate to the application of the law. The reasons behind the bill were under a (a) higher payment of tax debts and other public interest. Public interest in public money, taxpayers' money. Following the adoption of such legislative changes, the Croatian Parliament introduced a new institute on the government's proposal, and I will quote about from the reasons, the deleveraging of companies in large debt. This deleveraging through the Institute of Pre-departure Deals has been reserved and is reserved only for businesses, not for craftsmen and, for example, family farms which are in no better position financially than those obviously large ones who have been deposed through pre-departure deals. At the time of writing this bill in February of this year, 6024 cases were submitted, applications for the initiation of the pre-trial settlement procedure. The date solved 745, and the total value of the claims submitted for a pre-demand settlement was then 54 billion claims. So it's a huge amount of money that was the subject of a later decision. Under the law that pre-fashion agreements were introduced, the Ministry of Finance had discretion, and there is forgiveness, it has a discretionary right to forgive up to 70% of the tax and contribution debt or not to accept the restructuring plan proposed by the debtor. So, the very fact that the Ministry of Finance had this discretionary right and from the practice and information that we were getting those smaller entrepreneurs were mostly passing away so that the Ministry of Finance refused. However, there were some large debtors where the Ministry of Finance did not accept the restructuring plan, and then later again, when someone else decided instead of the Ministry of Finance. In view of the proportion of votes and involvement in the procedure, small creditors had only the possibility or were forced to write off their claims, and to increase the absurdity they had to and must pay a tax on written claims. We noticed that in the process when the Ministry of Finance gave up part of the tax claim, why and how it happened, the cuts that were not the revenues of the state budget were also denied, but exclusively the municipalities and cities. So it turns out the Ministry of Finance, on behalf of the municipalities and cities, has forgiven their debts, their claims. What did we propose with this bill? In short, it is not considered mandatory to keep a tax secret and that no tax secret is injured if the Ministry of Finance, Tax Administration and without the consent of the debtor, the taxpayer publishes on his website the amount for which pre-departure deals are concluded, the reduced claims of the public administration body on the basis of the value added tax, the income tax, income tax, the cut, contributions to compulsory insurance, special taxes on petroleum products, special taxes on tobacco processing, special taxes on beer, special taxes on coffee, special losses on non-alcoholic beverages, real estate taxes, and customs duties. Why is the Ministry of Finance tax administration on its websites to publish that information? All those taxpayers were listed on the list of taxpayers prior to the completion of the pre-departure settlement. After reaching a preliminary settlement, they shall be deleted from the list. And it's quite logical then that the Ministry of Finance can explain to us citizens because otherwise people think that tax debts have been paid, it goes further by satisfying the public interest that the tax debt has been settled. So it's actually about continuing the process of public disclosure of tax debts. After being on the taxpayer's list and passing the pre-departure settlement procedure which was successfully completed, the State gave up part of the tax claims. What we just wanted to get is that the Ministry of Finance, which on behalf of the citizens of this country, gave up tax claims, unfortunately even cuts what the revenues of municipalities and cities are, rather than the central states, to publish the data as much in the June exactly as the tax has been waived, whose taxes for each tax are individually as on the list of taxpayers for each of these taxes specifically stated tax debt and ultimately the total tax debt. So we think that publishing that data only then makes sense to that list of taxpayers. And of course, with the publication of the amount of tax claims, the data of the remaining part which remains in the payment obligation at which prolongat is granted and at which rate is the interest rate, because at the time of completion of the pre-departure settlement, the debtors on the same day or day after that usually do not pay the difference in the tax they owed but receive the most frequently prolongates at a certain time at a certain interest rate. That's the essence of this proposal. In its opinion, the government points out that all these data are available on the website of the FINA and that everything exists there. It's just one piece of truth. In order for the FINA database to look for data, you first need to know the OIB of every taxpayer because only the name of the firm won't let you in. And then the second of each of those then 6 grand and something I don't know how many pre-price settlement proceedings are now would have to specifically calculate how much tax debt is forgiven and what's different. However, if you did so too, you could not obtain data by taxes individually but only the total amount. And therefore the answer in the Government's opinion is cynical because if the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the same Government, the Ministry of Finance gave this discretionary right to give up public money in the process of this deleveraging, then citizens have the right to have an exact simple way of reviewing, such as that table on the Tax Administration's pages of tax debtors where neither the OIB nor the company's name nor the pasord, nor to carry out any mathematics, bill of collection, rejection, nor to look for specific classes because the debts are defined by each tax individually in such a manner should be published or should be published this information and the data we ask for. What about information looks like when you manage to reach the FINA after the process is completed, I will use such data to quote one such completed object that ended the FINA Regional Centre Osijek. It is a well-known large debtor who deals with a terrible importance for the Republic of Croatia, taxi transport, taxi company. "Group 1, public administration bodies and state-owned companies, the determined amount of demand that creditors have the right to vote for 509 thousand 681.97 kuna, of which the total amount of votes is 425 thousand 608.27, which means that 83.5 voted for the plan and 16.5% against the plan." So this is where we came up with the fact that the central state and commercial companies owned by the central government must be looking for taxes and contributions and the majority-owned companies were looking for something else, certainly not taxes, a total of 509 thousand. How much tax is that, you don't know. And then it goes on to say, the group of public administration bodies and state-owned companies, the debt according to the tax administration, is reduced by 50% and the remaining amount on payment of 60 months at a rate of 4.5% and a start of one year. Only in a way that all of these thousands and thousands of items can be calculated and displayed after the end of the procedure on the website of the FINA could you make your own tables and show the total write-off of the debts of the public administration body and companies in the majority state ownership. And no other information from this one of ours that we consider to be of public interest has been summed up and examined. Finally, I ask if the arguments for the introduction of a list of taxpayers were of public interest and if, in the pre-profit settlement process, the method of forgiving tax claims and claims from the titles of contributions and pension and health benefits, in particular, the stability of the pension and health system, what is the problem with this being the same Ministry of Finance that agreed on behalf of the State to such a settlement, a pre-departure agreement to make a public presentation of this data? Or perhaps the problem is that if such a systematicised list were published and some conclusions could arise that might refer to strange things that fellow Maric also spoke about this morning with the first item of the agenda. I have to admit that I am disappointed with the government's view that it rejects something that is actually a continuation of its project, the project of a list of taxpayers is a project of this government. The pre-departure settlements project is a project of this government, and now it just needs to be completed for the sake of public interest by publishing these data and, of course, to answer the question whether the state will compensate municipalities and cities for that part of the cut that they gave up on their behalf and that they didn't even know it and that they didn't even know it. And if I were the mayor or the mayor of the municipality, I'd press charges and ask the state to make up for the last cut of the pardoned cuts. Because these days we hear that local self-government and regional self-government must perform their functions, that it must be financially monitored, and now, in floods, more engaged. And whenever we get bigger problems centrally, the level of central government we call local and regional self-government, we count every job, every wrong move, every wrong decision. And I'd really like to know how much the cut is forgiven, how many municipalities, the cities in that title, are damaged. But also that part of the tax, for example, of income that is also in the finale, is not the income of the state budget but is again the income of municipalities and cities because it seems to me that only 12% of the income tax collected ends in the state budget and is used for decentralised functions. And now we're asking ourselves if this was the discretionary right that the Ministry of Finance had, consenting to the tax write-offs gave on its own behalf... on behalf of the Government, on behalf of this Parliament and most of that tax cake income actually belongs to municipalities and cities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Isn't that exactly why these data don't want to be published, then there would be conditions for the mayor, the mayor of the municipality, so I would say even the mayors because of the income tax from the central state looking for what she forgave someone and what was supposed to be their income. The necessary means for the publication of these data from the beginning when the list of taxable persons was to be published are negligible. No, the government does not accept, the ruling majority will not accept and therefore there remains bitterness that this list, especially in the pre-election year, could cause tectonic disorders. Perhaps then, on that list with the highest amounts, some large companies would find that in one way or another reward those who refuse to make it public. And he calls on all those who have supported the publication of the list of taxpayers to support this proposal, where it continues, to continue the model with additional information. The shortest reasons why they were removed from the list of taxpayers, because in the pre-departure settlement they received a write-off for the most part and for the rest of the prolongat debt for several months or years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86153	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86154	I think you'll agree with what you're doing right now, I mean basically to complete what, on which you base your entire debate, which is the role of the government and the realization of the promises to publish so-called lists or what you call them, or what the Colloquial public calls them, the list of shames of all debtors, so those who owe the state. I think that, by respecting what you said, this proposal would improve the whole project and finally achieve its purpose, but still to experience that condemnation of the public and thus help the bodies, so those who are first invited to realise and collect tax debt, which is one of the support of the public and the social condemnation of those who do not act accordingly. And that is because society is still not yet ready enough, to the expected extent to condemn those who do not pay taxes. And why is that we know that, and we need to say it openly, because there are still cases where the state owes either to individuals who are small craftsmen or their companies money. Tax money is also given precisely because, among other things, not only other public affairs are served but also by forced collection, it is one of the jobs, the tasks of the authorities, which is therefore financed from the tax. So, I don't think it would be fair or that this whole project would get to the fullness of its realization should be taken into account and not put on a pillar of shame to those to whom the state owes and who may have just and for this very reason only become in trouble so that they could not put their other obligations at rest, first of all the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86155	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86156	Thank you. My colleague Ingrid, I said I never called it a list of shames, but a list of taxpayers. We have to use that language. As for support, we supported that bill when it was at the polls and I think this proposal is a continuation of that support you're asking for to bring things to an end. And I agree with you that on the list of taxpayers and businesses and entrepreneurs who are part of them is because either state or state companies did not pay them in time. I spoke here yesterday in the hall with one of those. The city of Dubrovnik says nine months if you get paid to work for them, be happy. But come on, you gave me a brilliant idea. Why don't the state publish a list of their debts? Why is it that, as part of the pre-departure settlement, the entrepreneur suggested, the state does not agree to a debt breakthrough? He owed 30,000 kuna taxes, and the state million kuna to him for the job done and couldn't make a breakthrough. They asked for it and this is an ideal proposal. Yes, we have entrepreneurs, businesses and large and small who are in trouble because of the debts of the state and state-owned enterprises. Let us publish this, enable them to break these debts, and within 30 days we have solved most of it. I really thank you, and we will propose exactly that, if you support us to continue from the beginning of the list of pre-demand settlements,... data on the debt of the central state and the breakthrough of debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86157	Thank you. Next replica Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86158	Thank you very much. A colleague, Lesar, in a banana state, is a discretionary right to not pay taxes. This must not be the right in the Republic of Croatia and it is necessary to publish, but it is also known to everyone that Al Capone has also fallen for tax evasion, so we certainly want to see who these characters in the Republic of Croatia have not paid taxes for years. But what happens is that the state writes down part of the income of the unit of local and regional administration. I had such an example when I was mayor. One company that was bought for the Kuna state wrote off about 40 million kunas and I sued them six years ago and the other day when Minister Lalovac complained he didn't have a current reserve, you know why, because 83 million kuna had to pay Osijek-Baranja County for the verdict. So the state can't write off the income of the units of local administration, but we need to know who they are and the state can't get into a situation where it doesn't compensate for its debts after 30 days because we have the Payment Act and exactly... the possibility that any taxpayer can settle in the Republic of Croatia. Then the situation would not be complicated and some would not end up in a pre-emptive procedure, some would not have to write off the debts, but the announcement must be in the Republic of Croatia to know the name and name of those who did not pay the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86159	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86160	I fully agree with you that the central state simply cannot, by any law, forgive anyone for the revenues of municipalities and cities from the title of the cut or anything else. And that's why we're asking that, as part of the publication of the data on the tax write-offs, that even the data on the written-off taxes to make sure that, hopefully, it's going to stop, I just believe that the state is no longer doing it now, but it's been doing it all the time, and based on that data, the municipalities and cities can protect their interests and sue back what belongs to them. And probably refusing to publish these data is one reason why in finance they are afraid that municipalities and cities will actually collect their claims. And here we are in an absurd situation that the central state, the central bank, the state budget, the state... lightly barata write off when it comes to other people's money, and I remind you it's not just about taxes, income tax and its distribution ends in local self-government, and every kuna of government income tax is only 12 left to solve or should end up in local self-government. How much money has that been made so far in all pre-prime settlements? A few billion, I guess. So that's why we're looking for a release of that data.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86161	Thank you. The next is the replica Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86162	Thank you very much. Col. Lesar, the state forced suppliers to write off and those who did not want to write off claims to pre-departure entities, and it forced its decision to write him off, and on those written-off claims he paid VAT, paid taxes, paid taxes on profits, paid everything, and the state forced him to write off that and to pay taxes on something that forced him not to charge. On an invoice he can't charge, he has to pay the state tax. Isn't that paradoxical? But the government does not accept this idea of yours because it wants to cover these things so that what happens in this most criminal act in the Croatian economy after privatisation is not revealed. For pre-party settlements, a new dilation should be built in Remetinco and only called the dilation of pre-fashion settlements. And you say, you're interested in how forgiven it is. I'm also interested in who's forgiven. They are not forgiven by legal persons, they are also forgiven by the owners of legal persons. Who are the owners of a legal person? How much is their property? These are the richest persons in the Republic of Croatia as a rule. Honoring exceptions. And we forgive the richest. Did the Treasury try to collect anything from them? No, it didn't use instruments at all. It's all to be forgotten now and covered. Now you get a car tax, it's not you, because you don't drive, but we all get it. Let's try not to pay the tax 200 kuna on the car. You'll see within 30 days what kind of performance awaits you in the garage, on the apartment, on everything else. And according to those who owe 55 billion kuna, no one has ever done anything. We protect them, we protect the debtors, and we think we're moving the state forward in court.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86163	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86164	Comrade Maric, you're absolutely right. In this example I keep before me...... Thank you. [[You can't hear it.]] [[/Intruder Batinić: Please, colleague. Comrade Lesar, here you go.]] In this particular example that I am holding in my hand, the state has therefore requested 509,000, financial institutions 5 million and 900, and beware of the result of the vote. When voting on the need to adopt a restructuring plan for this company 99.99% of financial institutions voted in favour and in a group of other creditors, small entrepreneurs voted 48.29 and against 51.71. Therefore, small business creditors did not accept this restructuring plan, but they were outvoted by state and bank. And they were forced to write off 30% of all claims, and the rest were paid off 24 months without interest. That's what they are, and now we're asking for these data to be published and it's not going again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86165	Thank you. We're starting a club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86166	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, very briefly, the proposal is short and frankly not the clearest thing for me is the problem in this proposal and why, why it was unacceptable to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, nor is it particularly difficult to implement, nor does it burden the state budget, nor does it require any great effort of the Tax Administration, nor will God know what effect, so overall. However, it would help certain transparency and availability of information to certain debtors, and I really don't see why, why, the Government. Is now just a question of asking who is proposing, not what he's proposing. Did only a priori because an opposition club of MPs suggested it and the Priors rejected it. Because we saw it from this so-called. Colloquially speaking, the list of shame, i.e. the public publication of tax debtors, did not receive this publication almost without any effect. The only thing that actually serves is that people look at that list and see which of those they know or who they heard about is the tax and that's what the entrepreneur in their environment or who they know and how much they owe. And that in some ways only actually increased the public and transparency of that debt, and in no way at least as far as I'm aware or affected, nor did it specifically help to actually charge that debt in any way. That's not even this information. Of course, it wouldn't really change anything in itself, but it would actually improve the information and transparency and over these pre-price settlement procedures, and actually, given that these data are generally available, it wouldn't actually be a bigger problem for these proceedings to be carried out. Therefore, I have to show my sincerest surprise why the government actually refuses this because if we are going to keep doing this way for several months one such proposal at the bottom of the agenda, then finally give it up in the afternoon and wait for it to pass, then neither we as the Croatian Parliament continue that practice that the Croatian Parliament has in its tradition for many years and before this calls for such a firm establishment of relations between the authorities and the opposition, that this opposition and that small contribution it can make through any legislative proposal can never go through in any way or in any form, not even one such kind of a mild version of information to the public that is relatively simple to perform and which poses no threat to the plan of the ruling coalition nor to its political interests. Therefore, it would be good if, in fact, a representative, in fact, one of the ruling even further could explain which motives are actually not to accept this at all. I'm saying, on the other hand, that's why we as a HDSSB club support it because we don't really see any rational reason and that it came from the ruling people to not support this because I put out the reasons. On the other hand, I say that this will not be adopted by God in any way to contribute to the effectiveness of any claims but will ultimately contribute to what is actually an important gain and democracy today in the 21st century, even if you want the functioning of a public administration, and that is to make information available to citizens as much as possible. This is sought in all of the models of the political system's work, as one proposal that will make it possible for one information to be made available to all those who are interested in it, on a more transparent basis, and on financial, therefore on some of the amounts that the state forgives. If we can look back a little on this debate that was previously held with colleagues two days or days ago, two of us could read several newspaper articles about how some people are legally convicted of, in some ways, which clearly identified political corruption, clientelism, abuse of position and authority and financial benefit. In one case, some 700 thousand kunas, in another million kunas, and we've been given the verdicts of a few months of working for the general good in the end. The trend continues, and in fact, I would disagree with those colleagues who had previously claimed that things were going towards paying taxes and that we were going towards not paying for malfeasance. No, we continue to send a clear message through the powerful judgments that malfeasance is paid, that tax is not paid and that the Croatian rule of law remains and that the Croatian state as a whole is an executive, the court simply fails in the right way to sanction all those who do not comply with Croatian laws, do not implement them or conduct various malversions. Especially in these cases that are actually directly related to politics. In the City Council of the city of Požega today we forgive the session of the city council for a million kuna municipal contributions to various.o., so today the city council decides, various.o. who remained in charge of municipal contributions and later only deleted themselves from the court register. It's 2.5% of our original income from the city budget. It's just that people have erased themselves and their debts disappear with them like they've never been, like, their obligation to make a communal contribution, like it never was. And nothing to anyone. So it's still staying that you have d.o.o. which is called Zenox, so tomorrow it's called Zenox and then the day after tomorrow Zenox b so over the day after tomorrow Zenox d, I mean I'm saying colloquial, you can still go on as if nothing happened even though for years we've been talking about finally agreeing to this legal system to make such malversion impossible. No, we're just going the other way, ma d.o.o. We'll start it for 22 June. More states will pay you to establish it so you can not pay your obligations and then shut it down and open the next d.o.o. And so out of the blue. This story about the tax debt and how it's a disgrace in the Croatian state I don't think I know if we all live in the same Croatia and if we all know people who are taxpayers or who have companies that are liable to pay taxes, and 100% are owned by them, I don't know if any of you know if any of them know that they walk head down and that they claim that they're ashamed of him for not paying taxes or their obligations? Therefore, the HDSSB club certainly supports this proposal for a law supplementing the General Tax Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86167	Thank you, too. We have a replica from your club. Comrade Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Đurović, you spoke about Požega and the write-off of some million kunas, which is 2.5% of your city's original budget. Here I was at a meeting of the County Assembly in Slavonski Brod where the county had to write off or pay bank guarantees for 5 such companies, private firms, worth 10 million kuna. One county which, according to all parameters, is one of the poorest, if not the poorest county in the country is to say in some way a colloquial gift, donated 10 million kunas because neither the bank nor the lawyers could be charged by any of these 5 private entities who could not pay in any way, and the county took over the guarantees and had to pay the banks 10 million kuna, which is when we take that the original budget of the County of Brodo-Posavina is about 70 million kuna is seven or about 7.8% which is an even more drastic example compared to yours from Požega. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86169	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86170	Yeah, well, this example that you've set, and this one that I've listed and that we have from local self-government and those examples that we have from the country where God paid for, knows how many guarantees for various companies where she's been issuing guarantees, and we know that over the past 15 years, 20 state guarantees were issued only as soon as you enter the door, you get a state guarantee for a million kuna. He doesn't even ask you what it is, who you are, and write what it's for, of course, it all comes to a charge later. Recently in the Croatian Parliament, we finally voted on the amendments to the Public Procurement Act where we were almost in a bizarre situation for taxpayers to pay for the ultimate loss. And very often, this loss in public procurement was caused by a variety of malfeasances of those who thus called competitions, these are amazing things. However, in the end, we will never finish such a thing until we send a social message with the rightful judgments that this crime in this country is not worth it. As long as we send powerful court rulings a clear message that crime pays off political corruption is worth it until we have crime and political corruption. And anyone who can read that for 700 thousand kuna embezzlements gets 10 months' work for the common good will, if found on that occasion, do the same. And if he puts a sock on his head and goes to the exchange room and takes a thousand kunas, he'll get four years in prison.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86171	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists-Party Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86172	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Croatian Labourists have proposed amendments to this law in the best interest of the public and transparency for the availability of money to citizens. What my colleagues said before, I see no reason why these data should not be publicly and transparently published and who is in the interest of hiding certain data or possibly very difficult to obtain such data. What is important to say is that this proposal by the Croatian Labourists on the completion of the General Tax Law in Article 8 because of the public interest and the fact that the state in pre-departure deals writes off money, so we believe that citizens have the right to know what debt was written off to the debtors but in what amount their debt was written off in. It would thus ensure greater transparency resulting from greater responsibility by the competent authorities in the conduct of pre-fashion settlements. The current solution in Article 8 shall be governed by the Institute of Tax Secrets referred to in paragraph 1, but shall, at the latest, edit data which are not considered tax secret as well as procedures which will not be considered a breach of the obligation to keep a tax secret. Our proposal is just to expand certain things that these data are transparent and published. Clearly, we all supported certain amendments to the law that came into force two years ago because tax debtors' data were published, and these changes would aim only to improve the tax system, in particular to encourage tax institutions and trust among citizens in the rule of law. The unquestionable fact is that restoring that trust and transparency has been pummeled when it was adopted in Article 8 of the previous amendment was at that time a tax debt of 52 billion. Afterwards, the Croatian public was bombed with data on the amounts and conditions of tax write-offs to individual debtors and an increasingly loud warning of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs about the unequal treatment of their request in the achievement of the pre-departure settlement that was being talked about by large players was indeed going well in these pre-fashion settlements. This proposal to amend the General Tax Code stipulates that the obligation to keep a tax secret is not damaged if the Ministry of Finance of the Tax Administration publishes on its website the amount for which pre-departure agreements are concluded to reduce the demand of the public administration body according to the taxpayer. We therefore consider that the proposed amendments in Article 8. The general tax law is a step forward and they are an important instrument for restoring citizens' trust in the Institute of Pre-departure Arrangements in such a way as to publish tax debt, and thus also the debtors to whom the state has written off part of the tax debt do not consider a breach of tax secret. Of course we think that the data is written off in... the settlements should also be transparent because of the public's insight into the time period of debt of all legal entities to which obligations have been written off in particular with the basis of taxes and contributions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are therefore surprised by the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we do not know what is the motive not to publish these data transparently. In the light of what the Government is saying is that the General Tax Law is a procedural law governing the relationship between taxpayers and tax authorities applying tax regulations and other public duties and that the pre-chasing procedure is a settlement procedure or agreement between all creditors and is carried out by the Financial Agency and that all data is published on the website of the FINA. Clearly, coming to this data is very complicated, research and demand simply does not see any reason that would be contrary to the fact that these data are not publicly and transparently published. And we just feel the opposite that there is no obstacle to this law being regulated. And precisely because of this transparency and because of the data published on the website for example, I will say only the issue of the problem and what broke in public, and this is the issue of the Spačva case and all that data was published and published on the website of FINA, but the precedent was created in the shift of Finance Minister Slavko Linić, although he claimed that everything was by law, that everything was published, and the epilogue was quite different. If the criteria for published data were more clear then probably because of the public's interest and because of what the public wants to know, it would be very easy to have an insight into all the data and clearly in the public, there are other cases of debt write-off and also in some media houses, and it should certainly be published in one place because of the Croatian public. This is not how you know by what criteria someone's debt is written off and not how a settlement is done to remove any doubt from possible malversion we have offered such a proposal. When the state forgives debts through pre-determined settlements, it is necessary to make the whole procedure more transparent and public in order to remove any doubt about the individual's suitability. For example, here we have today's speech and we have published a list of taxpayers, they are also called a pillar of shame. There have been two years, the tax administration audits taxpayers' lists every three months, some debtors disappear from it while others who have accumulated debts appear on the list in the meantime. In this case, taxpayers who owed €8.2 billion were deleted from the list because they entered the pre-determined settlements or shut down companies or died and ceased to exist. According to first-list tax administration data, it included 102,000,370 taxpayers and a total of about 30 billion kuna. On the list published this year were 82 000 and 400 taxpayers with a total tax of 20 billion and 900 million kuna, which means that nearly 20 billion were less than 2 years ago that the tax debt decreased by just over 9 billion kuna. Although the tax debt has fallen by 9 billion kuna, this does not mean that the amount of tax officials are real in the past 2 years and to be paid into the state budget. For example, I will say that tax officials paid 783 million kuna into the budget from July 2012 to September this year. In these two categories are those who have been deleted because they have paid the debt completely, they are about 500 billion and about 290 million kunas of those who have paid part of the debt and have come under that amount and have been deleted from that list. And what happened to the other taxpayers who have been deleted from the list in the last two years and had about 8.2 billion kuna, there's simply no data anywhere. And clearly, the public would like to know and have all the information. In the past two years, the Ministry of Finance has forgiven the amount of tax debt in the pre-profit settlement procedures. And the entire list that this debt was forgiven for. We therefore believe that it is justified to amend this law for reasons of public and transparency but it is about the money of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have the right to know and have the right to see all the forgiven debts that have been made in the pre-departure procedure or in any other procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86173	On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86174	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Who else in Croatia talks about pre-war settlement? In the last few months as if she had simply disappeared from the media, from political speeches, she was simply no longer interesting. One government move boasting that they had fallen, actually saved thousands of jobs, hundreds of businesses. If that's so good, why isn't there any talk about it today? But what is definitely and what is left behind, the administrative way of reducing indifference and reducing the tax debt. Administratively, because if it were different then the Croatian state would not be in trouble with the budget and would not be in excessive deficit measures and would not have a deficit of the state budget as it is and would not have reduced tax revenues. So these are facts that no one can bring down. However, it is very interesting that without a problem, the law can be changed to publish a list or a list of debtors. It is very easy to publish the register of Croatian defenders and the last public publication was so-called. a list of shames for those who don't pay their wages. And when we draw a common line and a common denominator for all together, which is the effect of all this together, Comrade Tušak has now spoken to those 50 billion unpaid taxes. Two years after the publication of the list, only 700 million were charged, 200 of which were written off, and 500 were only charged and probably 500 would be charged without the publication of that list. So it's not particularly good when you're in power to treat things differently, and I'm going to do it a little bit later when I'm just quoting a part of the government's explanation why it doesn't accept this proposal, but simply things have to be treated and called in exactly the same way, no matter who liked it or didn't like it at some point. There was a law that was preceding pre-price settlements, he was passed I think in the 2nd month of 2002, only then was it called the Law on the collection of earnings and unpaid claims and then it was said that there was a debt somewhere around 24 billion. The effect of all this together after a year and a few more days was that not a billion kuna was charged, and probably this 50 billion when you take the tight interest that was between 14 and 18% over the past 10 years is the highest of those 24 billion. When you see in principle how this tax debt was reduced in 2004-2008 and how the revenues of the state budget grew far above the rate of growth and inflation, therefore the real growth of tax revenues was far higher, without increasing taxes. But when it is good for you, then you can publish all things, and when it is not good for you, then suddenly nothing can be revealed. Because if the Government says that a pre-profit settlement is a settlement and that it should not be the subject of the General Tax Law because there are speculations about some other claims, not just tax claims, then it is a logical thing, we will not be intruding into the General Tax Law but we will insert an article in the Bank's Banking Contract Act where we will say that we will publish all those with written-off debts and debt resolutions in exactly the same way as we have published the list of debtors. Because it's impossible between that 100th and how many thousands there are, almost 200 thousand taxpayers, to look for those who are now suddenly gone or those who have reduced their tax debt, and based on it, it counts that so many millions or tens of millions of kunas have been written off, and the conditions under which they will pay the other tax debt are simply impossible to find if you don't go digging or going through the web pages of FINA. So if we're talking about transparency, if we like to say that someone didn't do it that way, then when you need to pass the transparency exam, you fall right in the first step. It's this case of pre-fashion settlement. Remember how this law was passed in this House of Commons. Practically the last Friday of the regular session was voted to amend the 45-seat law after a week Thursday, and we came to where we are. To be honest, I will read only two quotes from the government's argument, saying that the pre-profit settlement procedure is a settlement procedure or an agreed settlement of all creditors, and it is implemented by the Financial Agency, the draft law on the completion of the General Tax Law is not the subject of the General Tax Law. That's what I told you. The subject of the General Tax Code is only one part of the write-off. But if it is not already the subject of the General Tax Code, if we expected that on the list or register of Croatian defenders we would find tens or hundreds of thousands of those who are allegedly false Croatian defenders, so it did not happen, if the budget was expected to be filled with the publication of the list of debtors, then it is not clear to me why those who were on that list of debtors, but suddenly their tax debt disappeared. It's very interesting that an instrument that should have at least revealed a lot if it didn't work out, as far as tax debt and ownership are concerned, a dozen or more companies, the OIB didn't bother to get him to live as soon as possible and use the instruments of the OIB for this. And the logical thing is, I don't think there's anyone in this assembly who's going to say that once the Vartex state was not supposed to help. I don't think there's anyone in this assembly who's going to say that. There's no moral right versus those few thousand, first of all, women who've done hard work for years and created this Vartex. However, competition came, loyal, disloyal from somewhere else, and that Vartex unfortunately could no longer exist. Therefore, it is not disputed that everyone would support the rescue of some companies for the simple reason that their both regional importance and economic significance is far more important than several million kunas in the state budget. So, these people will work, if they earn salaries, if they don't fall on the burden of the state through the Employment Service, the government will benefit from that job multiple times. However, this Vartex or others is not controversial, but much has been said about it. However, it is likely that something else or others is at issue, so it is unlikely that neither is going anywhere nor, accepts this proposal to allow the General Tax Law to publish these data, nor is it proposed to amend the Pre-departure Agreement Act in which only one article would regulate that these data be published. But what I would just say here is clear about this law if adopted, if my colleagues from the ruling coalition accept, then I would suggest to my colleagues in this Article 1 in paragraph 13, there are some things that simply need to be changed because they are not in line with the positive legal rules because there is no longer a parent number. The registration through which both legal and natural persons are registered shall be OIB. So, a unique identification sign with 11 digits and a foundation that everyone regulates, so if someone deals with a craftsman, it's also recorded through the OIB. And I'm not honestly telling you what this date, month, birth, parent name of a natural person who performs the activity is because if you type in his OIB he if he deals with any activity or has any tax debt then you'll get the information you need to get. Therefore, the OIB has just been introduced because, based on a single sign, we can come up with, in fact, one that needs from state institutions can come up with the data that it needs. At the beginning of this paragraph, this first sentence shall be the name and last name of the natural person carrying out the activity or the name of the taxpayer. It's mutually exclusive. If you're doing your job, then you're an automatic taxpayer. Only if you didn't mean a legal person here. So, I don't see any reason why, that the government doesn't accept this law any more than you took it for the right to have other people's incomes. I don't just mean the cut and the part of the income that applies to the local self-government units, but I think it's past that those smallest debtors, actually the believers in pre-priced settlements where practically no one asked them anything but were overvoted, called. They're only told you'll be admitted to 50 or 60% or you'll be recognised the full amount and you can charge it in the next 5 years without interest and without anything. There's also someone who took it as a right practically to make a decision instead of someone. 'Cause look, what a big company means a lot is 10, 15, or 20, or 100 million, so a craftsman means a hell of a lot 10, 20, or 30,000 kuna. The order of size is exactly the same when you take the ratio of total income. So it's just one of the projects that was glamorously announced. But when you take that of the government's representatives on this subject, only one ministerial assistant remains, then I'm perfectly clear why what's going on. So the HDZ Club has no reason not to support this initiative by fellow Labourists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86175	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, here's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86176	Comrade Shuker, I would agree with you in the part where you talked about pre-nuptial deals and you mentioned Vartex. I think it should be mentioned that there are certainly hundreds of other production companies that should be looking for ways in all possible forms that these companies and these activities that have these companies and regardless of their ownership are preserved and retained, and not that they are actually going at all costs into some kind of liquidation, bankruptcy and attempted violent collection of claims where there is usually a very small share of these claims, and what actually represents a vital problem in our opinion today, Croatia, which is a problem of employment. Because shutting down hundreds or thousands of jobs in textiles or processing activity is something that is practically irreparable later on again possible to run or open. Finally, only if we take into account that in these activities every job, the opening of each job is worth or costs at least 100,000 or 150 000 euros is clear how much only and how much investment should be needed to open 100 jobs in the processing business. But also on what you said, and what didn't actually happen in pre-determined settlements to actually see what companies that don't have that capacity and that value for the interests of the Croatian state and where Croatia is, in fact, where space opened up in pre-determined settlements and where perhaps there was really a very strange treatment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86177	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86178	So, my colleague Djurovic thinks that we fully agree and I think that there should be a repeat here of what is certainly a common consideration of all parliamentary representatives, which is that there are companies that simply, if they can in any way try to preserve themselves. Because today Croatia has no production and may not be a problem to produce something but the problem is to place it on the market. But we can't say that Vartex and a series of other companies have some kind of brand, have their own product, and the logical thing is that it's far cheaper if you can save that company than shut down and open up some new one to break into the market. So, for a million and one reason, it just needs to be done. But there are also companies that simply don't deserve to be found because there are others in the competition who are going to do this job and take over these people, only maybe they're better organized and they've better agreed on a story to survive. Maybe that's exactly why he doesn't want that list published. Because there are not many production companies in Croatia today that we can throw ourselves and easily send them into bankruptcy. And maybe this particular Vartex debt and debt to the banks came about because it wanted to protect those first were nearly 5,000 women, and in the end I don't know if there are 1800 today, 2000. Many of them had their eyes on that Vartex industrial plant across from the stadium, but apparently there was some kind of industrial architecture being protected, so that's no longer how it works. But it is obvious that this list is not published exclusively because it should not be seen by some who are helped in some other way, perhaps even by their grandmothers and uncles.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86179	Gold shower, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86180	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Shucker, you're absolutely right when you said it, but it's two times that there's been a change of the Pre-price settlement Act, and on those two occasions it was a completely different law. And it's kind of cynical when the government is now in its argument saying that it shouldn't stand in this law but should stand in this other law and not bother standing in that law. We clearly think as Labourists, and you said there should be absolutely no obstacle to him being in both laws just so there are no different interpretations. And clearly there's something else behind that, which is a matter of transparency that not all the data and all the ones who should be on the debt-forgiving list. I see there's the only reason and I don't see any other reason, and that's why I agree with you in your discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86181	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86182	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague of Tušak, many of the tens of thousands of people on the list of taxpayers, must be extremely unhappy that they are in such a position. Many of them are the owners of respected family crafts that later became businesses. Many have invested everything they have in it. They practically sold everything they had to save it, and eventually they couldn't save it. And you don't have to look at it the same way. There were also those who used holes to set up a company for the company and probably accumulated tax debts, so we did change the Law on the Court Register, but simply when we came into the position that we wanted to help and that it was one of the instruments of government economic policy to save certain companies then if they were able to publish and put on the stage the shame of people who did not get their own fault, many of them were prominent craftsmen, respected entrepreneurs, then I also think there is no reason to announce those to whom the state estimated that they could survive, that they could keep their jobs, that they could hire people and that they could create a new value and that the state, through some write-off or tax debt reprogramme, wanted to help them in such a way. Therefore, I see no reason, however, it is something positive and it is a message to the business partners of the company that the state has chosen them, that their restructuring programme has accepted as something of value and that they need to be dealt with and that they can be dealt with. So I can even say that it could have been some kind of marketing move that the state is sending a message of these values, they've got a good program, we'll give them a chance, let them go to work. What are you hiding if you want to help someone? It's just something that doesn't make sense. And that's why I'm surprised by this government explanation where they're calling for debts to the state, and these are some sort of settlements.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86183	Comrade Dragutin Lesar, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86184	Yes, colleague Shuker, you're right. The state has pre-profit deals and in companies, especially in production, has stood behind them, and has been able to send a message to all potential investors of partners and we stand behind them and believe in them. We do not really accept the government's views that this is not the subject of this law because the Ministry of Finance is a participant in the settlement and I said the teaching move is to publish a list of taxpayers. And if it really isn't the subject of this law, and the government agrees with the intention of why does the Government not propose an amendment or addition to the law governing pre-determined settlements? So it's about the message we don't want to publish, there's the problem. Each first reading of the law ends with the conclusion of all the remarks and the proposals presented in the debate are referred to the Proposer to prepare them for the second reading. That is the conclusion and we accept and thank fellow Shucker for the good warning of his home number, we have indeed made a mistake in that, and that needs to be corrected, and I believe that it has also helped to ensure that the OIB is not forgotten. As well as what my colleague Ingrid said when she warned that some of them had ended up here because the state had not paid their dues and then until the second reading, we will try to propose that the state must publish a list of all its debts over 30 days to the private sector to see which private companies were brought into bankruptcy or before bankruptcy is not serviced by most state-owned companies. And indeed, there are quite a number of those who came on the list of taxpayers or completely disappeared from the economy because they couldn't collect their claims not only on the private market but also on the state. But what makes me particularly sad when we're discussing all this, the little debtor ends up either in business or he's left out of a house where over 50 thousand kunas sell a house worth 200 grand for 100 thousand kuna or in prison. Large debtors, and now we have an old case of three days when the dignitaries, especially local ones, are at stake, then for crime, for making harmful contracts, for not paying taxes, it's about one hospital director, he's been punished for two hours each day for two hours. So I will not call more of that punishment for working for the common good than Croatia has patented the peeling of potatoes as punishment for prominent powerful men when they break the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86185	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86186	Proposal for a law supplementing the General Tax Code, first reading, P.Z. No. 626. Proposer of the law is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists – Party of Work. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. The proposal for a law supplementing the General Tax Law proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers – The Labour Party for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the reports of the working bodies is not accepted. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed conclusion has been accepted by 77 votes to 33 against and four abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86187	We move on to: 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the Income Tax Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 650 Proposer Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourist-Stranke Work. You've received the motion for an act. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The introduction will explain Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86188	Honored vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs. The income tax law of Article 45(2) lays down that the income tax on non-performing labour accounts, suspends and pays on each payment in accordance with the rules applicable on the day of payment. In practice, the application of this provision raises a problem when paying several back-up salaries paid by the employer to its workers. Since income tax is suspended and paid on each payment in the event of payment of several lagging salaries, the basis for the collection of income tax is the sum of all paid salaries, not each pay separately. Therefore, it happens that the minimum wage is taxed at a higher rate than 40% because a worker has been paid several lagging minimum salaries or it is an example but it can also be a higher salary than minimum wage. This lack leads to workers whose salary is taxed at rates of 25 and 40% and if they earn a salary that enters the lower tax class until the rest of their salary only comes by filing tax returns and returning more tax and tax returns. Since tax returns are paid in practice during the period from April to June of the current year, and in certain tax administrations, even later, the worker in some cases should wait one year and more to pay the rest of his salary for that part of the tax and the cut that he received unwarrantedly on a larger amount of paid salaries. Our legislation does not know the solution to pay more back salaries, and the unpaid salaries are particularly taxed according to the rules applicable at the time when that salary was due. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The income tax law of workers who receive back salaries or pay differences is not in the same position, especially if they change their place of residence during the year, means they go to another place or before the change of employer goes to work with another employer. As a result, we believe that the same provisions should be incorporated into the law in order to pay back back salaries or payoffs in the case of pensions. According to the current law, for example, in the event that a larger amount is paid, 20 thousand kunas of late salaries or pay gaps are listed here in one month, the tax liability is 6,506 kuna and 52 June, and in the case of acceptance of our proposal, the tax liability would be 1,274 kuna and 40 limes, which is 5 times less than the actual tax rate or less than 5,232 kuna and 12 liras of the one that is actually accounted for. This proposal proposes that in the event of payment of wages for several months of the same tax period, the rules applicable on the day of payment and the personal deduction for each month for which payment is made are laid down in accordance with the rules applicable in the month in which the salary was to be paid. On the other hand, in the case of payments relating to the past tax period, the calendar year, and the taxpayer demonstrates by confirmation of the tax administration that, for that tax period or more, he did not submit an annual tax application or that he did not apply personal deductions, the rules applicable on the day on which the salary was to be paid and the personal deduction for each month for which payment was made are laid down under the rules applicable in the month in which the salary was to be paid. The proposed solution will avoid the situation that irregularly paid workers are additionally punished by paying taxes per rate applied to above average incomes and must wait for more than a year to return their money. We believe that MPs will support this proposal in the interest of workers who receive irregular pay because in this way they are damaged and currently there are 7 thousand and 900 employers and 31 thousand 324 workers who receive irregular pay and to whom this law applies where they are charged with higher salaries and therefore we believe that this law has a very good justification and no additional financial resources are needed in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86189	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86190	Dear colleagues and colleagues who have us full of halls, you see what a great interest it is in the rights of workers. If someone did not listen carefully or did not know this area only the question, how is the law regulated when it comes to pensions if the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute issues a pension decision after a few months, so it pays back pensions as is regulated tax and contributions. The Croatian Pension Insurance Office has... taxes and contributions shall be accounted for in the manner and at the rate applicable when the pension was to be paid, it shall read in the existing law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, in the existing law, we have clearly prescribed for any defaults in pension payments if the backlogs are paid that taxes and contributions will be accounted for under those rules that were not applicable when paid, but when they should be paid. We're going to the pay area. Not because we invented but because of the growing number of people who were able to get paid after three, four, five, six months or more because employers were lurking. In some because employers simply could not get the money and pay the wages workers agreed to work 6 months without pay because they obviously trusted their employer, they accounted for 6 salaries and fell to tax scissors at the highest tax rate of 40% due to the large amount in that month. It's a month's salary, and if it was charged on a monthly salary, some of them wouldn't pay at least 25 and some wouldn't pay at even 12. And because of the cry and appeal of those people, and there were those who got paid by court rulings, then again, their tax was to be charged by 25% or 40%. Therefore, because of these poor people, we have also suggested that we make it clear in this law that when an employer pays a worker back wages or other material rights which are taxed or to which contributions are paid, they must be accounted according to the rules which were applicable when that payment was to be made. Many of these people are colleagues and colleagues among those 317 thousand blocked citizens. These days, the government is encouraging them and the entire nation to try to resolve the model of how some of these debts will be written off, mentioning up to 10,000 kuna. And when we offer a model here that avoids a major social injustice that these workers practically lend to the state. Because in order to pay back the tax paid at best, they have to wait until the end of the year and if the employer could apply the existing legal provision that, when calculating the last salary in the calendar year, he has to settle employee taxes which a large number of small entrepreneurs do not do, I repeat what a large number of small entrepreneurs do not do. But what about those workers who changed their employer in July and left that employer where that payment came from? They no longer receive the last salary of the year from him, and he cannot make a settlement. They remain subject to tax returns in February of next year and are awaiting any June, July, for the state to pay them back the tax they paid. For a year, these people with five, six, ten thousand kunas are going to borrow the state in no way, and we've seen the problem and we've offered a solution that costs nothing. The state budget has 0 kuna cost to accept this law. The employer has a 0 kuna cost to apply this law because instead of calculating one of the then applicable rates, it is only necessary to look at the tax system since the laggings. It might be a little bit more complicated with courts who are suing, so most often they pass the judgments of the collection obligations unsettled by months and years of back wages, and the workers who file charges don't know how much the tax rate was at the time to calculate the gross amounts and obligations of taxes and contributions themselves, so... and that the payments according to court rulings are the same thing. And what does the government say? Interestingly, it points to the provision that the employer in the last salary of the year must do so. Well, I read it, we saw it, but obviously it's not working. It guides us to have these workers file tax returns and I read that, I know that, but we're talking about that being the weakest paid most often, the most tragic fates they have that have been waiting a few months for pay, they've been paid back and the state is still cutting them off with 40% of taxes. Now, you file a report, and we'll return it in June next year. And of course, the government ends up with the following opinion, and I'm very happy that both before and for this law there are representatives of the Ministry of Finance who the government has authorized to represent the government. I quote: "However, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will consider the same in accordance with the positive tax rules and possibly the proposed amendments will be classified when the following amendments to the Income Tax Act are amended.": So the government is also aware that the problem exists. Apparently, these workers, citizens, have been complaining to someone in the government or the SDP, and even there they know that this is really happening and that this is not about 1, not about 10, not about 100, but about thousands of citizens. But if it's only one thing in this country we have to react, that only one citizen is so damaged we as a Parliament must react. And because they are also aware, they will have to, at least promised, work and repair this model, but they will not accept it now that it is proposed because in their reluctant opinion they do not dispute that the bill is well written. They are called on by the end of the year to make it appear, as if they do not know that workers can change the employer, they are calling for tax returns to be filed as if it were normal for those who did not regularly receive salaries to credit the state and say that even in the case of a judicial procedure in the Law on a litigation procedure that tax obligations are accounted for at a time when debts were incurred, not when they are paid, but subject to conditions. E precisely because of this, but under the most obvious conditions, courts make these judgments in a way that has not been worked out for months or years. And back salaries sometimes are not just for two months or six months, there is a long time when workers seek their obligations. And are people really far away? As long as we're in a situation where we're not going to be able to fix the gaps that everyone's been through, we've all been involved now, either three years or five years ago, or at any time in the process of making those decisions, the law, and we've been through a hole so that it can happen, and life has shown that we've been lying. Such a small effort, such a small intervention in the law, and how much justice we repay to people, how much hope and trust we can give back to people in this country's legal system if such proposals for changes that don't make any extra costs to anyone, especially not to the state. Of course, those who receive salaries on the burden of budgets are not interested in these topics. It can't happen to us representatives because we don't take back salaries, not government members, not in public enterprises, not everyone who creates party policy. Those who do this are nowhere to be able to decide. And that's why I want to encourage you and invite you, support this proposal, bring back these people's hopes of seeing the problems that are coming to us, that we know that we're ready to do that, even though this proposal has waited for six months of debate, and most of the workers I'm talking about, they've been waiting for so much time for their wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86191	On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86192	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Well rightly speaking, I would be happy if I could agree with this proposal by the Labourist, but I here have to warn of some things that are crucial, which is that income tax is paid on the principle of payment over a period not period. And that's the key to this whole problem, because with all this positive stuff that my colleague Lesar said in the law, he's opening up a series of gray holes that can get us through. But if we want to solve it, if the problem is so big, I think it would be far more elegant that we tried to solve it through Article 38 and that we here instead of carrying out the annual tax on income, taxes and income cuts with the last payment. That's the only place we could have installed with a six-month payment and a 12-month payout. And in that way they would reduce that difference to two, three months and that's something that's crucial. And why am I telling you colleagues and colleagues? Maybe those who don't deal with these jobs in a period of time and for a period of time don't mean anything. Look, the payoff for 12 months in the first month. If we stick to what we say here, then in the first month, it would be accounted for by tax laws that were valid at 12 months. But since the basic principle of the Income Tax Act in Croatia is paid over the period then the income is taxed according to tax laws applicable at the time of payment. So it's a key provision. But I repeat if we want to solve this problem then it is far more elegant to solve it through Article 38 in paragraphs 1 and 2. just add that the payers are obliged to do it in 6 and 12 months. Because 12 months doesn't pay the last salary. In 12 months, the salary is paid in 11, possibly 10 months. The last salary for the previous year is paid in the first month, everywhere. It's rare to get paid for 31.12. Therefore, the payment at 12 months is treated for the last payment of the salary in that year and then the arsonist is obliged to change, although in the original text of the law there was no in the first part of it. But precisely because there have been cases like this that people have received two or three back salaries due to their irregular payouts in one month. And precisely why I'm talking about the principle in the period and for the period, because that, if the law defined that the tax is being charged for the period, then you could make three bills of wages, pay in one month and use three personal deductions. However, the basic principle of income tax in the Republic of Croatia to tax payments during the period, and all these three salaries were paid in one month. And that's why I'm saying, maybe it's a good idea, but maybe trying to do it through the wrong article. And I mean, look at the colleagues and colleagues of Article 38, so you'll see that it's far more elegant, far simpler, and it doesn't penetrate the system and there's no room for various manipulations. Why am I saying that? So look at how many companies there are at this point and how many people who don't get regular wages? Someone can abuse it. And to say that something is being taxed under a law that was a year or two ago, we simply tear down the tax system. The question arises, we had another case, which is the payment of capital gains tax or dividend tax where retroactive application has been discussed. Isn't this, the tax billing of the laws that were in place at the time, expropriating you in view of the current legal provisions on retroactive application? So these are all well-intentioned remarks. I think it's far more elegant to try to solve it through Article 38. I even think that the Government would have no argument, that it would be a far stronger argument to accept that provision, to solve this problem through Article 38. Because then the government wouldn't have any argument if it didn't accept it, no argument would have. And speaking in this way through a provision like this that you have proposed and through article 45, it opens up a series of doubts. But I'm saying, the main problem is paying off in the period and paying off for the period. That's it. Comrade Lesar, you can do this, but I'm just suggesting something that regardless of the political government won't be able to refuse and until the second reading we can practically change this and we've basically solved the case. Well, those payments won't be right in the first month or the second month. Make it in the third or fourth month with payment, first payment in the sixth month. That's not 30.6. It's usually between the first and 15 in the sixth month the same thing as between the first and the 15th at 12 months. Unfortunately, there are also companies that pay their wages at the end of the month. Thus, we will reduce that time difference since someone was charged a higher tax, and it should not have been charged. However, I repeat for the period and for the period. It's a key thing. It's a key thing. Because this is what you suggest, then someone could make practically 5 payrolls and pay those 5 salaries in the same month. However, if you look at the basic principles of income tax he speaks of monthly personal deduction. So you can use it monthly in that amount, and cumulatively at the end of the year you can use it times 12, cumulatively. So it's just about that, nothing else. And when all of this, those provisions of the law you look at and try to get into what you've suggested, it's unfortunately inequitable because you're breaking the basic principle, which is a monthly deduction, a monthly non-taxable part and a deduction for dependent family members. He refers to the moon, he refers to the moon. And you if that, if the Proposer accepts this he ruins it. Because I simply can't pay two salaries, so in the third month, I'm going to make three payrolls, and I'm going to charge three times my salary according to those regulations that were actually used three times my personal deduction and I'm going to charge at the rate of the tax that it is. That's a fact. When you look at this law, you'll see that it is. Because this law, which is proposed by colleagues from the Croatian Labour Club, is exactly what he proposes. And that then leads to abuse, but if we go with an amendment to Article 38, then we make it firm that whoever paid the income and the debtor is legally... has to carry out the shootout. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second thing, what you said about changing employers, the tax card closes and a new tax card opens. Therefore, he brings his tax card to the employer, and this one is obliged as the last payer to make a settlement for the reason that this tax return is neutral as regards the payer, that tax return is made out of the state budget, the budget of the units of local self-government. So, with my best wishes, I just tried to explain where these dangers are hiding in article 45 and which is a key problem. So when you look at a personal deduction, it applies to one month and it's cumulative for a whole year or it's cumulative for as many months as you've worked and you haven't had any other income. So, you can do 8 months, 8 months, you get a personal deduction of 2200 kuna, but at the end of the year, but you can't handle this provision of the law that you're proposing, it's exclusively solved by tax returns, you file tax returns for a reason, why? You've been entitled to 12 times 2200 non-taxable, so that's 26 400, and you've only been admitted by someone for 7 months and that's 15 400. And you state up to these 26 400 counts and pay you back more in tax returns. And that can only be solved by tax returns. This is exactly what you're talking about in article 38. So, if it happens that someone in one month pays more wages, and can only use one deduction and unfortunately most of those salaries enter that class that he taxed with 40% and he can, his income payer, settle at 12 months. So no tax returns should be filed. But watch what happens, but that man, so he'll make that settlement for him but regardless of the settlement he can file another tax application if he hasn't received all 12 salaries. And then he's entitled to that return again because he has the right to that personal deduction of 26 400 kuna. That's why I'm saying this getting into article 45 is very complicated, very dangerous and it's not good. But what you want to solve, so what's your intensity can be far better solved through Article 38. Well, at the end of the day, we can put it here to do it both at the end of the third and the end of the sixth and the end of the ninth and the end of the 12th, if that's the case, you understand? But we do come to what we want to get, which is that someone who hasn't paid their wages doesn't credit the state or the city for 12 or 13 months. So if we want to solve what, if the real intention is what you're saying, then it's far more quality through Article 38 because Article 45 is far wider, it's practically universally solving the problem but it doesn't ultimately solve this problem that you're talking about. Because there's no way someone's gonna accept you paying your income tax, no matter what it's about, it goes according to the rules when it's... It could be under regulations from four years ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if it's a court ruling, then there's interest. Interests are punishable and someone for not paying someone something in time for interest. So we can't shake up a regular payment when the employer comes to the money and pays three or four salaries at a time or pays off on the basis of a court ruling. They're different things and we can't treat them equally. So to conclude that I no longer repeat my colleagues from the Croatian Labour Club, I suggest that if we really want to help the workers, if we are not to break up the tax system to try this together or in another proposal to solve this through Article 38, then the Government really has no argument not to accept it. There's just no argument that he doesn't say okay, we'll accept it. Well, after all, there will be an amendment to the Income Tax Act now announced in 15 or 20 days. But I suggest that it be a joint conclusion, the HDZ Club would certainly support you, to solve it through Article 38, that it practically gives up the revision of Article 45, far more quality, far better, and then we really helped the workers. And through the interventions through Article 45, unfortunately, we have opened the grey holes of those who make excellent use of it, unfortunately, and this shows this huge tax debt and something like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86193	Now we've learned, I think it was well explained. Replica, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86194	Comrade Shuker, thank you for this last proposal. The difference between in and for a period is very well known to me, believe me. But you've rightly warned, and that's what I thought, that there are too many people in this country who know how to handle and cheat and that they might abuse the model that was proposed here. That's why we tried to formulate the proposal, so the example when our salary would be paid in January and paid for December. It says in the case of payments for several months. I agree that there is a possibility of abuse to make five payments, five lists and five payments in one month, I agree. Our intensity wasn't to make it possible and allow it. However, the same provision in Article 45 is also for pensions. So if we're talking about the principle of income taxation, then that's where it was violated in that way. And we handled the same reason and the same model to suggest. I accept your suggestion that, in conclusion, if most of us accept it, we intervene in Article 38 and solve it through Article 38. Now that I'm sure most of them will accept it, we could vote on that proposal right now. Yes, three times a year according to Article 38, then we largely avoided the problem we are talking about. ... And are you going to guarantee me the majority's decision? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So we will formally stay with the proposal, wait for the Government's proposal because they announced it as I read that they would suggest something, so if the problem is solved through Article 38, everyone will again please if you agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86195	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86196	Thank you very much. Comrade Lesar, if there was a business possibility, I would have given you an amendment, but since Article 38 doesn't touch, I can't change it to go to it. But I can make a suggestion. However, what I would like to tell you, you must distinguish the difference between taxing pensions and wages. So why do pensions have a larger non-taxable part? Because a large part of the Croatian pensioners were paid in the former state where the pension contribution was gross and the tax was paid on that gross. And today, when you calculate contributions that go to pay or pay, you come to income and then you don't pay taxes on that income, it pays taxes on that income. So most of the non-taxable part of the pension went because sometimes pension payments were taxed on by those municipal republican and state taxes and were practically taxed on it. You contributed to the tax and that's why pensions have a 3600 non-taxable share today. I sincerely hope that if the government increases this, they will raise an untaxable part for the pensioners as well. And why do pensions have special treatment? Why? Well, because they're made out of the state budget. And the big backlog of retirement is nothing more than some kind of bureaucratic or administrative silence or something, and there's no reason to cut someone off for something when you're practically pouring from one to the other. As long as the payoff pays, income is something else entirely. That's why it's not good to mix and compare here like this, right here. We need to know why something is taxed, and that's why the biggest mistake is that the government has now taxed foreign pensions. Foreign pensions are practically paid tax, and sometimes pensions in Croatia were not paid tax at all. 3600 were only for domestic pensions, for pensions in Croatia, not for foreign pensions. So let's not pull a parallel between wages and pensions, that's two different things. You know why this is 2200 and this is 3600.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86197	Drazen Djurovic, on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86198	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. Well, this was a very interesting debate. When it comes to initiative and principle idea, I think it's hard to think that the idea is not good, so the idea in itself simply that those people who are deprived of paid wages to be even more punished, that sometimes even a year and a half have to wait after they get those back salaries through income tax returns is very good. Then we heard in these technical aspects of the law, and then finally we have our problem, and this is our problem, in fact, the functionality and way of functioning of Parliament itself, which actually cannot solve this situation itself because, in fact, Parliament itself, as a rule, Croatia, never brings out a single legal initiative, and I think that this is actually an excellent example of the dysfunction of the Croatian Parliament as the highest legislative body of the Republic, a very real dysfunctionality. So because at this point there is no representative of the government who would be willing and able to show the position of the government in relation to this situation or, let's say, this proposal by Mr Shucker, simply because, in the second reading, the proposer might come up with a completely different proposal, however, there is no guarantee or indication that another reading will be. ... Yeah, that's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And indeed, this situation is very interesting, although of course I suppose the proponent is nevertheless whether it will be in this article or in that article, the goal is actually to solve this problem in a way that those workers who are damaged by payouts are not yet damaged by how the state accounts for tax because there is a relatively simple situation and it would be interesting to see if there is anyone on the ruling side who is willing to take a pay phone and say, take a position or say on behalf of the ruling majority that is at this point, I suppose, and a minority, whether they have any opinion and attitude on this situation. Because in the end we won't all agree with ideology... but I think we can agree, at least I think, with that saying that it doesn't matter if the cat is black or white, but it's important to hunt mice. So, this is a situation where it doesn't matter which article we're going to connect to, but whether through some article we're going to actually make it possible that workers don't have to wait for these few thousand kunas for another year or a year or a half days. In this situation, it would be interesting if the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament who is otherwise a member of the ruling coalition, very competent in the economy, would also express her opinion on this problem because what they take the floor, we have turned that commitment... the ballot, however, takes the floor means simply to engage in the debate, not to slave the ballot and what it says on the display. Therefore, here, certainly, the HDSSB club, if there is a space, will join the initiative to seek any solution, to help workers who are late payout workers in this way, and I personally call on the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament if there is a will to take the floor. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86199	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86200	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Djurović, why did I propose Article 38? In the first Law on Tax on the Income of this provision, it was not in Article 38. So it was installed precisely because this anomaly paid more salaries or more fees in one month could only be corrected by tax returns. And then not to solve it in such a way was incorporated into this provision that this profitability of income must be done in the 12th month. If that provision was first installed for 12. I don't see why we shouldn't do it now with 3rd, 6th and 9th months, but we're basically achieving what we want in the simplest way. But article 45, I'm really warning you colleagues is very dangerous. You open space for some things that unfortunately you in Croatia have people who are willing to pay a smaller tax and they will skim something and that is why workers will eventually get hurt. So we're just working out more what's built into the law, so from practical experiences that some payoffs happen, or let's say someone doesn't get two salaries, they can also happen, so at the end of the year at the end of the 12th month with payouts, the one who pays the wages can settle for someone to account for it in such a way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86201	My final colleague, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86202	Very brief. I thank my colleague Djurovic and my colleague Shuker. The colleagues of Đurovic, because he really rightly warned about the dysfunction of all systems, there is no one here from the government, and that when they wrote the government's opinion, they said that this would be settled in the model of Article 38, as counterpart Schuker suggested, this debate today would not be necessary and could already come with such a proposal. My colleagues to Shuker because he warned with the right to open up through Article 45 of the abuse, I'm only sorry that because of the fear of abuse, they suffer the weakest. But let's deal with it this way, the government has seen the most changes to the Income Tax Act, you said yourself, if they don't intervene in Article 38 let's try to do it all to fix the model in favour of those we're up against here today according to the principle and model of three-year... tax as it would be, can tro, can 4 because the goal must be achieved, justice. And what it means when government doesn't come from government to listen to this debate is evidence that we could hear the opinion today, and they could be made clear about this proposal and article 38, and they would solve the problem. This is why parliamentary debates are served, which is why the Rules of Procedure provide for government representatives to be in the Parliament when the proposals of the law are discussed. Out of shame, all those who had to be and did not come and ruling a coalition that does not offer solutions to the problem the opposition points to but laughs if a mistake is found in one word. The intention, purpose and goal that they want to achieve is not at all important, as if it were not people who are 317 thousand half of them in a blockade because of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86203	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86204	Proposal for a law supplementing the Income Tax Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 650. Proposer of the law is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists – Party of Work. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. The proposal for a law supplementing the Income Tax Act proposed by the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers – The Labour Party for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the reports of the working bodies is not accepted. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed conclusion has been accepted by 75 votes in favour, 33 against and 7 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86205	And now, as agreed between a colleague of Vesna Škara Ozbolt and the HDZ Club, we'll discuss it first: 10. Proposed law on court warlocks, first reading, P.Z. No. 659 Proposer Vesna Škrare Ozbolt. You've received the motion for an act. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. in the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. And colleague Vesna Skara Ozbolt will explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86206	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. And I'd like to thank the HDZ Club for making this switch. For the first time, there is practically a bill that regulates the work of court witches, and through the law. So far, he's regulated, and now he's regulated through the regulations. In the proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights, experts are considered representatives of the state and they are commissioners of the domestic court who exercise judicial power on behalf of the State. They are appointed by the court, given a warrant for their work, the court is authorized to oversee their work. So far, the European Court of Human Rights has passed five rulings dealing with the implementation of the art in proceedings before the Croatian authorities. He found that the way the court warlocks worked in some cases contributed to the violations of the convention. It is the judgments of Bajic against Croatia where the experts were entrusted who were employed by the defendants so that they practically did the art for one side, it is the European Court of Human Rights very poor. Kudra's ruling against Croatia, where the art of art lasted over two years, was lost at all and the Republic of Croatia lost the procedure because of the unwitting work of the witches. The third verdict is oxy against Croatia, there is the injured right to a fair trial and the right to respect for personal and family life. So the expert was supposed to assess the ability of a psychiatric party, he did it on the phone and did it skillfully. Of course, the Republic of Croatia and the costs of compensation for damages, judgments... against Croatia, there is also a violation of respect for personal and family life and there is a process of deprivement of business ability practically the artist has not seen at all the person he should have talked to and spent his art. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So he took the papers of another person and handed them over to the court file and that Croatia is paying huge compensation for the work of a court expert. In addition to these examples that I have cited to you, there are a number of cases against Croatia in which applicants have objected to the excessive length of court proceedings, and these practical cases are ended by a settlement that the Republic of Croatia is paying again. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia also indicated the need for this simple issue of the work of the witches to be regulated. Even regular courts that decide the length of proceedings often face these problems. And that's why it's important that this particular area be clear and precise enough, normatively arranged. Currently, there is an area of art in Croatia that is not regulated by a single regulation at all, so under this default law, and I have practically regulated the work of the experts except the rules of the Law on Courts and specific rules on the appointment of skills, the way in which they are performed and supervised are contained, as I said in the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice, so by means of a sublaw adopted by the Minister of Justice. In Croatia, there is not one roof organisation of court witches that would deal with the issues of the organisation of the work of the witches, their continuous training, although a number of associations act, they are simply not synchronised. No domestic regulation contains general norms on the way of organisation, duties and powers, as well as the functioning and role of structural associations of witches. This rule on permanent court warlocks, which has recently been brought by the Ministry of Justice, gives associations a key role in... witches, however, work control, expert training, a solid organisational form does not exist in Croatia at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And for these reasons, it has just been proposed that this Law on Judicial Witches be thoroughly regulated. First of all, the arguments that we make in this way through this bill and these examples that we have, which I have cited in the introduction, clearly state the need for this issue to be regulated through the law. Therefore, the basic issues which are governed by this law regulates the conditions for the conduct of judicial warlocks' affairs, the conditions for the appointment and resolution of judicial warlocks, the rules of duty and the responsibilities of judicial witches, the supervision of the work and the establishment of the Croatian Chamber of Court and other issues of importance for the work of witches. The appointments and resolutions of court experts have so far been in the power of the president of the county and trade courts, according to this proposal would now be within the jurisdiction of the minister of justice who decides both on enrolment and on the erasure of natural and legal persons. Conditions are being set up that must be met by the court expert, I said the Croatian Chamber of Court Witches is being established which, in cooperation with courts and in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, would implement the provisions of the law. The chamber would be an independent organization that would naturally preserve the reputation and dignity of the witches. And this very bill would allow one more systematic adjustment of the area of this work that has been regulated by sublaws so far. Because it is regulated by sublegal acts as we can see, so far Croatia has lost 5 cases and is paying dangerously high damages. I am sorry that the government rejected this proposal because it is reason to believe that it is sufficient to regulate it by means of a sublegal act. I believe that this is not enough, the argument that there is no chamber of court experts in other European countries I think is a weak argument because in other European countries their associations are practically established by law and are not like this and their work, i.e. the work of witches in other countries is quite legally arranged unlike Croatia. Here's what would be brief in some way describing this proposal and regardless of the government's decision, regardless of the views and committees, I urge you to accept this law because it is really important to regulate this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86207	Thank you very much. Drazen Djurovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86208	Thank you. My colleagues Skare-Ozbolt when you mentioned these five convictions, two of which I remembered one refers to the artist being an expert on the phone, the other that he didn't practice at all but entered it into the file. However, has the expert reached a verdict and has it been ruled by skill or judgment? So I think whose actually, there, I didn't quite understand, so does the Strasbourg court refut judgment or disprove art? And what exactly is at the centre of what the Strasbourg court was dealing with, is it a witch problem or is it a judge problem? So that judge who was making judgments, where he was watching, what he was doing, I think. Here's the thing. I've got something vague left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86209	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86210	My dear colleague, I said that the courts and judges today rely more and more on the work of the court's experts, on their evaluations, on their evaluations. When a psychiatrist talks to an example. one of the parties in the court proceedings then he does not do so before the court but performs the art of either his office or his place of work. So he did a phone call call, and he wrote there a full report that later turned out to be memorized, the judge couldn't assess, he simply trusted himself because he wasn't professional enough to assess what the court expert needed to assess. So a court expert is simply necessary today in the conduct of a court case.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86211	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86212	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill on judicial warlocks. As far as the SDP club is concerned, he will not support this bill, such as not only the Government but neither the Legislative Committee nor the Justice Committee. The fact is that the Law on Courts is a partially regulated issue relating to judicial warlocks, so, with the definition of a permanent court expert, it is normised not only who performs the affairs of a court expert, so whether a legal or physical person, but also norms who appoints and resolves the presidents of a county and trade court for their territory. Of course, these are the presidents of the county and trade court, and according to the proposal, the permanent court expert would be appointed by the minister of justice. Whether this is a more systematic adjustment of the field of work of judicial experts and respect for their independence in the work, as stated in the reasoning of the proposal as its objective, is a major issue. By law on court terms and procedure for the appointment of permanent judicial witches, their rights and duties, and the amount of remuneration and costs for their work, the Minister of Justice rules. The rules on permanent court warlocks are exactly what is resolved, so the conditions and procedure of appointment, their rights and duties, and the amount of rewards and costs for their work are very clear, precise and systematic. The examples we have heard in the opening statement of the Proposer indeed refer to the unwitting work of the experts, but the findings of the experts and the expert opinion are a determination of the facts of the court and of the judge. And whether a psychiatrist did his forensics on the phone is certainly not the first time in a lawsuit before an international court. Therefore, whether a certain finding is qualitative and in accordance with the rules of the profession is assessed by the judge. It does not assess the content, but certainly assesses whether the report is given in the rules of the profession, as well as an assessment of witness statements. We don't think individual unconscious work, no matter how much it costs, has to be regulated by law. There's ignorance in every profession, so they show up in the art class. And given that this issue is normised as I have stated by the Law on Courts and the Rules on Permanent Court Witches in a very precise way that works very well, we do not feel that the above issue needs to be addressed by a special law. The proposal for mandatory association of court experts in Croatia is not acceptable to us. Well, we don't think that if we force the court's experts to necessarily join together, they are now joined in associations where they are also trained professionally, the regulation also states how the court's experts are trained before being appointed by the president of the county and trade courts. Do we really think that if we force them to join in a single chamber, pay for it membership fees and contributions, that's why they'll be more aware of their work? According to the proposal, we see that it is foreseen that a congregation of chambers would have jobs. It adopts statutes and other general acts of the chamber, elects members of its bodies and examines and approves the budget, revenue and expenditure, determines the amount of membership and contribution and decides on other issues. What are the public powers of this predictable Croatian Chamber of Judiciary which is proposed by this bill? Finally, given that this proposal for a law is a good part, which is a fact, it can be seen by comparison, prescribed rules on permanent court warlocks in 2008, other than provisions relating to the establishment of the Croatian Chamber of Permanent Courts, since the adoption of this law would be in conflict with the Law on Courts, let us look at the transitional and final provisions of this proposal, given that this proposal requires the termination of the implementing rules, so the Rules of Procedure on Permanent Court Witches prescribed by the adoption of that regulation of a special law or law on courts, the SDP Club will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86213	On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Davor Milicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86214	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposed Law on Court Witches. I'll look back on just a few provisions of the bill. At the beginning of its presentation, it is necessary to note that in April of this year, we have in force a Regulation on permanent judicial warlocks brought by the Minister of Justice on the basis of Article 126(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Court law. Comparing this text of the draft law to the adopted Regulation on permanent court warlocks published in the National Journal of the European Union No. 38 of 2014 does not see any visible improvement which the provisions of the Rules on Permanent Court Witches, which are converted into legal frameworks, will result in better work of judicial experts. In addition, the current Rules on Permanent Court Witches adopted pursuant to Article 126(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as amended by Article 126(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on Courts lays down the conditions for the conduct of the affairs of permanent judicial experts for both natural and legal persons. Similarly, the current rules on permanent court witches have been set up for citizens of EU member states. Furthermore, the adoption of this law would result in additional and unnecessary costs for court experts, as they must be readapted to a new law and have only yet to be adapted to the current Regulation. In addition to the above, this bill, in particular in the appointment section, proposes a significantly different solution than has been resolved so far. Namely, by draft law, the appointment of experts would be carried out by the minister of justice, not as has been done by the president of the county, i.e. the Trade Court. This raises a higher level of appointment, which we consider unnecessary and even more harmful because it leads to additional centralisation of judicial affairs, and additionally unnecessarily burdens the work of the justice ministry. However, on the other hand, one system of appointments that has worked very well so far has been abolished. Therefore, we do not feel that it is necessary to regulate the work of judicial experts at this time, because their work is already very well-legislatively resolved by legal and sublegal provisions, and by a regulation that has been adopted recently. Finally, it should be pointed out that what is most important is that this bill points to the need for additional burden on the state budget, which seems really unnecessary and excessive, because what is our state of play in the state budget is clear to us, we are very well-known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86215	On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86216	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. In fact, colleagues Fabiančić and colleagues Milicevic presented most of those thesis that we as a HDSSB club also share, and we believe that there is really no need at this time for such a special law, and especially for the formation of any mandatory chamber of judicial warlocks that has none, as far as can be known, of any Western European state. Well, now we're going to have another chamber with another mandatory chamber contribution, with another administration, and so on, I'm not actually coming back. Therefore, in addition to all the above mentioned above, the HDSSB club will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86217	A colleague of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86218	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, I'm extremely sorry that this is how you react. This bill of law and the requirement to regulate this topic was primarily sought by judicial experts. Secondly, the legal solution was also sought by a representative, a Croatian representative before the European Court of Human Rights. The report and the Committee on the Constitution and the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Law has been sent about. There are serious problems in the work of court witches. I'm so sorry you can't see that. I'm very sorry you didn't read this bill well. The chamber is needed, it is needed for the reason that it would carry out the perfecting of the court witches it does not now have. The rule didn't regulate the question of perfecting judicial warlocks, and perfecting is the key to work. The minister who, according to this proposal, would appoint court experts would name on the proposal of a chamber that would best know and do education and first selection. Therefore, I think this proposal would offer one more systematic solution. I'm sorry you didn't get a good look at this law, I'm sorry you had this attitude. The regulation was incorporated most of the way into this bill, but the rulebook, this existing rulebook by the Ministry, doesn't regulate everything, it doesn't regulate life. Today, the rule has no obligation for a court expert to keep an art journal as proposed by the law. The rule doesn't regulate the surveillance of the work of court-laws. This law regulates and I am very sorry that you have practically misunderstood the intention of working, and here is a way of regulating the work of judicial experts themselves, and especially because this is a requirement of the court's own to regulate itself, and you have a backlog of problems coming and warnings coming from the European Court of Human Rights that this issue should be regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86219	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. It's about the bill. Excuse me, my colleague Đurovic had a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86220	Very short. I only wanted to share publicly with my colleague my experience on a chamber called the Croatian Medical Chamber which also conducts permanent education, relicence at certain times and mandatory chamber contributions. They formed an entire structure, established an administrative machinery with a number of employees, with new business spaces that regularly collects big money to all doctors in the Republic of Croatia, and I'm talking about my personal impression, absolutely unnecessary, no benefits of the profession, is a financial burden, and this permanent education that has become mandatory has actually become a potential for congress tourism, for the benefit of various private companies, for the mixing of private and public interest, and in fact has not achieved any of those declared goals except that in fact most of the effects that have arisen are actually negative for the pay of people who pay for both the overall state and education and the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86221	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86222	Proposed law on court warlocks, first reading, P.Z. No. 659. Proposer of the law is representative of Vesna Škare-Ozbolt. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. The proposal for a law on judicial warlocks proposed by the representative Vesna Škare-Ozbolt for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the reports of the working bodies is not accepted. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed conclusion has been accepted by 78 votes in favour, 30 against and 8 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86223	We're going back to debate nine now. Proposal for a Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, first reading, P.Z. No. 657; The Proposer of the Law is the Club of the Representatives of the HDZ. You've received the motion for an act. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session, and the opening proposal will be explained by counterpart Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86224	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, the Honorable Madam Representatives and the Gentlemen Representatives. Well, here I would firstly say that the HDZ Club proposes to the Croatian Assembly of the Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports in first reading in order to better regulate management, management and protection of maritime goods compared to the existing law that was passed in 2003 and later changed on three occasions, on the one hand. On the other hand, the HDZ Club sent this bill to the first reading, given that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Resort Ministry of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure, did not keep its promise just made by the Deputy Minister at the session of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections of the Croatian Parliament when it was stated and spoken at the Parliament's session that the bill of law to be sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia would come to the Croatian Parliament by the end of 2012. In the meantime, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Resort Ministry, sent a draft proposal for a Law on Maritime Good and Maritime Ports at the end of last year and through a presentation of the law itself in this public debate, certainly that the public, and especially the professional public, refused a number of solutions from this draft bill that we cannot accept and do not accept in the HDZ club. And what is indicative of this proposal for a draft law that started in the public debate is not accepted by a large number of officials of the ruling coalition. So, taking into account all that I have mentioned, we have decided at the HDZ Club to propose a proposal of the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports in the first reading, and based on this proposal of law on earlier texts of the Bills of Law which were made in 2008, and in part respecting certain and certain good provisions set out in the draft law by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in particular in the section relating to the concession of maritime goods which is part and in this law is fully in line with the new applicable Law on concessions adopted by the Croatian Parliament. Why is it necessary to adopt a new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports? Therefore, in the 11-year application of the Law on maritime good and seaports, certain standards have been detected which make it difficult to use maritime goods economically for reasons that a very large number of property-legal relations on maritime goods which are an obstacle to the possibility of concessioning and then to the economic use of maritime goods have been resolved because they are not as a previous issue solved property-legislative relations, i.e. on the particles which should be concessioned and which represent maritime well-being, but individual natural or legal persons, respectively. It is clear that this enrolment has not occurred in the past year or over the past 10 years, that the incoherence and insolvency of property-legal relations in the maritime good dates back several decades, but in any case already there since 1950 various different entries of natural or legal persons on the maritime goods begin. It's on one side, so. On the other hand, such a legal solution that determines how the maritime goods borders are defined is in a certain way complicated because one procedure that should be simple, which is professional but should be simple, is... in a way that the same procedure is conducted at the level of the county and through the County Commission for the determination of borders, and then the procedure is repeated in the resolution ministry, which, in view of the ministry's capacitation, is often a narrow throat. And for this reason, it is very difficult to react quickly and determine and establish the limit of maritime good. And on the third hand, as an important reason why a new law should be passed is the fact I mentioned earlier, which is that in the meantime, the Law on concessions imposed on the need to amend this law. And when it started this change, that is to say, the adoption of a new law at the HDZ Club, we also wanted to say our political position on maritime good governance, which is to necessarily require further decentralisation of the management of maritime goods in such a way that as far as possible and as much powers as possible, as well as... descending from the central state level to the local level, i.e. units of the regional, or local self-government. What does this law bring? First of all, this law stipulates that the maritime well-being is generally of interest to the Republic of Croatia, and that it is by its nature good in the general application on which no right of ownership or other real rights can be acquired on any basis. So, this is fundamental... from which we started at the HDZ Club, which is that on the maritime good we cannot acquire ownership on its basis which is contrary to the Government's proposal which was in the public debate, which the proposal prescribed that on the concessioned properties, first of all buildings built on the maritime good, the basis of the concession can acquire the right of ownership during the duration of the concession so that, as the government in its draft bill of law, the concessionary can be more easily in charge and thus build the necessary... on the maritime good. In addition, we are of the opinion that an existing solution establishing the right to concessions is also sufficient guarantee to financial institutions to support and facilitate the credit responsibility of concessionaires after... the concession is based on a contract with the concessionor. Therefore, it is one of the fundamental postulates that cannot acquire the right of ownership on the maritime good and that it is generally good in general use. The second important reason for the adoption of a law which is in a certain way contrary to the existing law is that the width of land space considered to be maritime goods under the law itself is prescribed and is also determined by a solution as... act while the decision to establish the limit of maritime goods as... act is adopted only in the event of subsequent extension or slavery of the border. This is a very important provision of this law because it will ultimately speed up the procedure, reduce the procedure for establishing the maritime goods border, because such a provision will no longer need the Commission to determine maritime goods borders to deal with the overall length of maritime goods in the Republic of Croatia, and that length is 5835 kilometers. So, a very large space and surface area of maritime goods such as this will already be defined as a maritime good that a solution such as... will be adopted by the Borders Committee to sign up in the land book and in the real estate cataster, a seafront plot that borders the sea as a maritime good if it is already listed as a beach, coastal, harbor, hill, reef, etc., which in itself already clearly indicates that it is indeed a maritime good. What is also very important and what this law adopts is, as I mentioned earlier, speeding up the setting of the maritime goods border because the border of maritime goods is now being brought immediately at the level of the county, which was proposed by the County Commission for Borders under the current law and then referred the proposal to the ministry. Under the law, the same county commission will now make a full decision on the setting of the border. An unsatisfactory party, whether it's a state's attorney's office or another party, can file a complaint and then resolve the ministry by appeal only. And in the long-standing practice of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, it can be established and very easily verified that the ministry has rarely changed its borderline of maritime goods with its solution and that it has generally accepted a solution to the maritime goods border established by the County Commission, so often this procedure has been doubled, and I say unnecessary. The best need for what I said was the fact that out of the total, here I mentioned, 5835 kilometers of coast, or maritime goods that include the coast and marine well-being on the islands, so far only 18% of the maritime goods border, or 1050 kilometers, have been established in the past 20 years. What this law also brings, and what we think is very good, is that the obligation is prescribed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to bring to the adoption of the Croatian Assembly a strategic plan of management and management of maritime goods for a 10-year period and a strategic plan for the management and development of seaports for a 10-year period. We keep this very important provision so that the Croatian Parliament as a representative body of citizens can indeed adopt this most important document that determines the conduct and management of maritime goods. What is also very important and what I want to point out is that this law introduces further decentralisation and management of maritime goods through the extension of the powers of counties and by empowering large cities and municipalities. In this law, we have strengthened the position of the county when it comes to maritime good, but there is also the introduction of... powers of large cities in the Republic of Croatia and these powers are almost fully equated with the powers of the counties except in the part of the adoption of the plan for the sudden pollution of the sea, on the one hand, about the establishment of port administrations. In all other jobs, large cities in the Republic of Croatia are fully equal with the counties. It is interesting that, here, after large cities as units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia were established by law 10 years ago, that only this law recognises the role and importance of large cities and was therefore necessary before, but if it is not before and now the adoption of the Law on Maritime Goodness which recognises the importance and role of large cities. I have said many times that if the city of Dubrovnik, Rijeka, Split, Sibenik etc. Great cities on the Croatian coast do not rule their maritime well-being that the law is not affected in any case. In addition to granting powers in the section relating to the concession of maritime goods for the economic use of maritime goods, powers have also been extended as regards the time limits for the concession of maritime goods and these concessions established by both the county and the large cities, from 20 to 30, respectively, to 40. Furthermore, this law, which has not been the case so far, has been made possible by the construction of maritime goods in that part of the maritime goods which is primarily in the general administration in accordance with the spatial planning documents and the annual management plan for cities and municipalities, which is not the result of extraordinary developments. So it is very important that there are certain structures on maritime goods which can now be carried out on the basis of the approval of the city council or municipal council if such construction is consistent with spatial-planning documentation and which, as I said, is not the result of extraordinary events. Furthermore, the counties and large cities under this law can build on maritime good for the purpose of resolving the consequences of extraordinary events. One of the important news that this law adopts and in which we differ from the Government's proposal is the fact that further decentralisation of available resources is being introduced. It seems to us that this is one of the most important features of this law that if the Parliament adopts this law that according to this law of 100 kuna collected for the management of maritime goods according to this proposal at the level of the county or city and the municipality, 75% of the total funds will remain, and if we accept the solution offered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then out of the total 100 kuna of the funds collected from the use of the maritime goods 50% would be the income of the state budget, or the Agency for Integrated Management of Maritime Goods, and 50% of the units of the regional or local self-government. So these are very large funds that this law leaves at the level of regional, regional and local self-government. And not only that, this proposal for a law means the use of maritime goods paid by shipowners or yachts remains still the funds of the county budget, and according to the Government's proposal, they would become the revenue of the Integrated Maritime Good Management Agency, which is about the number of boats and yachts in the Republic of Croatia's extremely large income. For example, for Dubrovnik-Neretva County amounts to a million and 200 thousand kuna, and for Split-Dalmatia somewhere almost 4 million kunas, so it is not small money and with this proposal these money remains at the level of the unit of local self-government. What is also important to point out is that, instead of abolishing concession approvals because many times concessions have been mixed with the concession for the general and special use of maritime goods and the basis of this law, licences issued by the municipal councils or their commissions and which are... based on the request, and in certain cases can also be given through a public tender. What is important to point out is that this law, which I said in my introduction, also established the concession of maritime goods in accordance with the Law on concessions. In this regard, we in the HDZ Club have assessed that the maximum period prescribed in the applicable law for the concession of maritime goods of 99 years is not appropriate and that the maximum time limit that can be prescribed by law or for which the concession of maritime goods can be granted in the Republic of Croatia is maximum of 75 years. Furthermore, what is important to this law is the introduction of a concession institute on request. That's a lot of public talk. This bill allows individual hotel complexes in and outside the settlement, individual camps, individual shipyards can obtain concessions on maritime goods that directly border their properties and on demand, rather than on the basis of a public tender which has so far been the case. It is clear that these are certain restrictions and when it comes to hotel complexes and tourist facilities in and out of the settlement, but given the number of conditions for which concessions may be granted on demand, I do not have enough time, but in any case the Institute of concessions is being introduced on request, which is very, very important. This also facilitates the economic use of both maritime goods and the business of numerous natural and legal persons who will be able to obtain concessions on demand in this way. Sea beaches and anchors are also defined and the issue of concessions and arrangements of sea beaches is resolved whether they are natural or they are decorated sea beaches. This proposal also lays down the jurisdiction of the county assemblies to determine in their respective areas the number of port administrations as well as the port areas of each port administration. Introductoryly, the bill that I have already mentioned several times with which the government has started in public debate can only say that this allows the County Assembly to determine the number of port administrations and their port area, and unlike the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal that only one port administration can be established in the county area. And another important piece of news that this law adopts. to enable municipal or city councils to conduct, through their communal directors, surveillance of the maritime good that is in general used. It is clear that the administrative supervision and maintenance of maritime goods in the port area and ports of special purposes are carried out by inspectors or officials of the Ministry and the competent port captains, but when it comes to the supervision of maritime goods which are not in the concession which is not in the port area, this law allows port authorities to carry out, i.e. cities and municipalities, that they can, through their municipal directors, regulate and monitor order of maritime good and when they prescribe penalties, penalties which they pay by virtue of the offences committed, are the budgets of the local self-government unit. So here's what I'm gonna end up with right now. This bill of law, which the Croatian Democratic Community Club referred to in the first reading, as we heard on the basis of the government's opinion delivered, is not supported because the government intends to deliver a new bill to the Croatian Parliament over the next few months, which should partially resolve the particular indetermination of this law that the Croatian Democratic Community Club has set out in the first reading. We believe that in this way it is possible to resolve through this law certain provisions that may not be best solved and we hold that through this law can indeed address all those issues that will contribute to better governance, management and protection of maritime goods. Here in this sense is this bill, so I invite the representatives of the Croatian Parliament to refer this law to another reading with any suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86225	Damir Rilje, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86226	Dear Vice-President Bačić, here we are today on the committee on this bill and in truth on the trail of what you have told us how and when he came and the way he respects the units of local self-government it is indeed a step. But I'm constantly insolent, and I can't help but think why we're not going into total decentralisation towards local self-government units. So we have the management of maritime goods but we have on the other hand the management of port areas. And I wouldn't mind, in fact, whether we say Vodice or I don't know Bakar or anyone else has their own port administration and their own port area, of course, with the appropriate criteria that the state will prescribe. Of course it's all easier and easier to go through spatial plans because so far we've simply had one part of implementing these requirements through higher order plans. So county versus municipal and also with the development plans of the entire area, let's say the county. And now imagine, we've talked about this today county port administration, I say in a county that has no 55, 60 or I don't know how many units of local self-government, let's say 55 and now development, the concentration of funds and investment. I know there's gotta be a program, but listen, I'd love to develop evenly. Because I think a colleague and a colleague of course, I mean those colleagues who, I don't know who are now in the local self-government unit that I was in or I don't know which one of them is going to be where we were or someone else. In other words, it seems to me that in this context and we already have a devastated coast we might have to work out a little bit if we want to decentralize... Decentralised and prepare units of local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know I can't follow everything because they won't have these inspectors, but some of them will. I'll try again later, but I don't have any more time, maybe in some replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86227	Branko Bacic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86228	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's my colleague Rilje, I can agree with you in part. So this... whether to abolish port administrations and completely maritime well-being and also leave port areas to cities and municipalities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am still at the point of view that there must be port administrations because if the maritime well-being and resources that were of maritime good were entirely the income of local self-government units, I do not believe that they would return to maritime well-being as if by those maritime good lords of port management that was only founded to be, to take care of the maritime good and port areas for which it was established. But we can go one step further and that is to prescribe the conditions that cities could set up port administrations and this can be one of your contributions to the debate on this bill. However, it is indicative that the government is going completely contrary to what you are saying because it is going with a proposal that was in a public debate to establish only one port administration for the county area. This bill aims to ensure that wherever it is justified, whether it is in Vodice, whether it is in Trogir, whether it is in Bakr, whether it is on Rab, whether it is on Preko on the island of Ugljan, so it is in Cavtat that when the representative body of the unit of local self-government submits a request if it meets certain criteria and these criteria speak of the revenues that it generates in the local self-government unit concerned and then has economic justification for establishing a port administration to establish it there. So I support what you said in part, and then it would be good to have such a debate on this law and also on this law that will be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86229	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86230	Thank you very much. Well, I think in your opening statement as a proposer in this first reading, you've given enough arguments that by ruling at least consider whether this is a ruling acceptance for them. Because he promised us the Deputy Minister there last year that the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports would also be referred to the legislative procedure by Christmas 2013, I think you remember some of us that we were, 2013. It was 2012, so in 2013 but it's hunting us a little bit and Christmas 2014, we don't have that legal proposal except that it showed up in a public debate. And yet there have been certain... with the county, with local self-government and caused already a certain dissatisfaction at the beginning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Why did local or regional units rebel? Because they've noticed that they're sort of centralizing the system again and we all want it to sort of go down to the lowest level. I think this is the happiest solution that may not have hit 100% at all, but it's closest to what we might be able to bring down to that level today. Because if something protects the interest of the Republic of Croatia, if it speeds up, if it further decentralises, gives more authority to regional and local self-government, it is clear that this, and in cooperation with some government bodies, should be supported and brought to an end because their proposal did not come under such approval. And I think this story itself is that out of 100 kuna 75, it gives local self-government or regional self-government units, and 25 states, it can be satisfactory for the state because in that process, the state also appears in that last act of some kind in the maritime good. We think it's just... and yet it's all what counterpart Rilje says down in the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86231	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86232	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You're absolutely right, fellow Boric. If the government was already on the move at the end of last year to draft a bill that passed a public debate and if we at the HDZ Club in April this year made this bill and it has been a full five months since then, we expected in the club that, in parallel with the debate on the bill made by the HDZ Club, it will come and then be discussed in parallel and the proposal that the Government will propose in this House. I was surprised to see that the President of the Parliament had put this bill into debate because since it had already been five months I expected it to wait with a bill that the government would refer to. This, on the one hand, was evident in its reading that the law did not support itself, but it did not give any valid reason why the law should not be supported. It would have been better if the government had gone with the bill because only then would you have seen the drastic differences you mentioned earlier, which is this bill going towards decentralisation, and the government's proposal is going towards further centralisation of maritime good governance through the establishment of the State Integrated Maritime Good Management Agency. And that is precisely the fact that in its proposal for legislation, the government has started further centralisedly caused a lot of dissatisfaction amongst the numerous mayors, the mayors and the mayors who are coming, or one mayor who comes from the ranks of the SDP, who did not actually agree with such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86233	Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, colleague Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86234	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Proposer, colleagues and colleagues. I am personally sorry that there are only 10 of us here because I believe that the theme of maritime goods is extremely important, extremely important for all those who deal with tourism and maritime traffic, I would also say for the vast majority of the inhabitants of all our coastal districts and local self-government units. As counterpart Bačić said, this is a debate on one topic that the law defined 11 years ago with some novels and the result of the regulations that are in place at this time, I dare say, is chaos in the maritime good. In fact, there are a whole range of different practices and different models of maritime good governance on the ground. For example. The Primorje-Gorski Kotar County has already implemented a decentralised system of governance in several zones and according to all the data we have the results of the management of maritime goods and responsibility for the management of maritime goods in that county are good. The grades are similar for Istria, but for everyone else they're mostly extremely bad. This is definitely one of the most important laws in the tourism sector. It concerns not only nautical tourism, since it defines a law that regulates the use of maritime goods and seaports, it also regulates many issues that are of great importance to hotelers, campsites, numerous renters, if you want restaurants, because there are beaches, promenades, souvenirs, terraces in the sea belt. That is why it is absolutely incredible that the Government, or the Ministry of Finance, in 2008 produced a hodogram of harmonisation of specific sectoral rules governing concessions with the Law on concessions. In the light of the above, a list of 21 sectoral laws to be complied with by the Law on concessions was set out in this Hodogram, which was to be brought into line from 1 January to 1 June 2009. I remind you, my colleague Bacic was the secretary of state at the time. The only law that is not yet in line with the Law on concessions is the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. The Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament in this term was two years ago, and this was joined by colleagues from the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, analysing the situation in nautical tourism and not in narrow terms but in a broader sense concluded that the need for amendments, i.e. the adoption of a new Law on Maritime Good and Maritime Ports, is urgent, I would say ultimative. The Committee proposed to the ministry that an expert task force be established immediately to prepare a draft new law and address an entire set of open issues that we are now seeing and to introduce new institutes. The ministry accepted the idea, a task force was appointed. She's been working for months without a project assignment, though. It was only in March 2013 that the minister prescribed what he expects of the commission. Despite some doctrinal differences in October 2013, the Commission delivered its draft to the Ministry of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. Those who saw the draft said it contains 30 new institutes, that in many ways it solves problems extremely well, that it provides some alternatives in situations that are questionable and that it is indeed a good basis for public debate. What happened to that proposal? After several months, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Development is going into debate with the interested public so that it is a draft for all coastal counties, and then it turns out that the draft has absolutely nothing to do with what the expert public group has proposed, and then representatives of the ministry both in Split and in Zadar and finally in Rijeka experience a salsa of criticism and demands that such solutions can not be moved forward. It has been several months again, and we now have information from the ministry that, in the fifth month of this year, the ministry has sent a draft amendment proposal and an addition of the law to compliance with other authorities of the state administration and this text, which was allegedly corrected on the basis of remarks and suggestions made at all these zone meetings held by the county. I haven't seen that text and I can't get it. I don't know if you've seen him. But I think that kind of behavior is inadmissible. And that is why I am glad that the representatives of the ministry have finally publicly announced and offered it and I would say that I would be provoked by the HDZ proposal that they will very soon send to the Parliament in the procedure of this law, and then I hope that, in two readings, we will have the opportunity to consider all the elements that the proposal bears including new institutes, assess their validity, the effect possible and agree on it. But there is no doubt that this law will be functional and usable only if a consensus is established in this assembly. When the Croatian Democratic Community has found it appropriate to write a new law, it means that we care about the problem at least in this mandate if you were unable to do so in the mandate of the previous one where you had both scissors and canvas and that's good, because I have no doubt that there were terrible pressures and resistances in trying to pass a new law in the previous term. That's what my colleague Bacic and I were already talking about. He would surely sign the draft and refer it to the Parliament if he could. So the existing model that we have in place is highly anti-enterprise. It is completely against the interest of tourism development. He doesn't know the elemental stuff. So, first of all, it's not even in line with the concession law. He doesn't even know what concessions are in the modern sense, he doesn't know what a subconcession institute is, he doesn't know what a concession institute is on demand, he doesn't know what a public private partnership is. So he doesn't know the elemental stuff. And what's the funniest of all? In the meantime, we have passed regulations, namely one law that regulates this issue of inland river transport in a great way. So we could've brought it in, but this isn't for the sea yet. So now it's time to work it out. There are several circular problems, i.e. issues to be found by consensus. When do you establish the limit of maritime good? There were those who claimed that it should be established immediately and for all purposes and that the state must register for maritime good, i.e. to carry out the maritime goods book, which would mean the automatic authorisation of all those who in the maritime goods zone have their own property at this time. There is no state in Europe at this time that is able to implement neither financially nor organisationally. So that's totally silly. When there is already a possibility that the border is determined where there is an interest and a public need for it. So where something is happening, where there are mutual relations between the state as a public goods representative and a concrete actor in the maritime good. So that's the first thing. The other thing is the question of compensation from the concessionaires. In fact, we now have a situation where a concessionary who's got something for 20 years, say for 20 years, doesn't think of a lip to invest in the last 7, 8 years of his concession because it's not worth it, because no one guarantees that he will continue to enjoy the concession, because no one can guarantee it. But we act silly when you mention the possibility of compensation. A new concessionist who comes to an old concession doesn't come on ice. It comes to a cultured space that is defined according to the spatial plan and knows exactly what is there. So, if the port is nautical or anything else, it can't be a helipad. Therefore, it is our goodwill and smart assessment that we define that investments are made in the last third, fourth, or as experts say concession times must be refunded by the new concessionaires. And that's part of the conditions under which he enters the concession into space. What's the problem? Then we will have quality investment and permanent investment in the concession space. This is a great opportunity to rush the ministry. The existing solutions, i.e. solutions in this law proposed by HDZ, are in many ways good but are also questionable. There's a suggestion here that, say, automatic islands of up to 4,000 squares be defined as a certain maritime well-being. Which would mean that the state has to enter into expropriation immediately. There are many such small islands, private islands, or islands of private property, which serve only for cattle abuse, for example. The question of criteria is, why 4, why not 1,000, why not 10,000 squares? So, but it's something you can talk about. In any case, these solutions that you have suggested, colleagues from HDZ, need a little stronger analysis and a little stronger arguments. It would be ideal for your enthusiasm to resolve this issue by law to save for a public debate on the law that we are promised will soon come here. And then that the law behind which the ruling majority will stand will be passed in agreement and consensus, and we will strengthen it so that it will bring new solutions, to be modern, to be a guarantee of sustainable development and not to be wilder in space and to be more lasting, not to be a regulation that we will have to change again relatively soon. I think we have the capacity to do that, I think we can find the will to do that, and if this is September, it would be good to define the final bill by the end of this year. We have no more to wait for, the ministry can come to the Parliament with its proposal and let's talk about it then and bring it to the end of this year. Because if we do so now and within that time period, we will do a great service to all those who will rule the maritime good, or work within it, we will have development plans in the next season. In this regard, the HNS Club will not accept your proposal but will call on you to work together on a joint proposal and the ruling majority and HDZ, or opposition to the law we are promised. Who, by all accounts, carries the institutes that you dropped from your proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86235	Now we'll move on to the replicas. Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86236	Comrade Beus, here I have to say first we know about the draft that was in the public debate. The parliamentary procedure didn't come up, but the draft that was going around, we know that he wasn't actually offering solutions, and in that sense, here's the proposal, it's really not bad. He is more liberal and heading towards local self-government units, but indirectly. I would like them to manage the resources of the local self-government units right now because it's their wealth and they have to bring their budgets to work. We now have a devastated coast. And you said something about it earlier. And in the tourism sense and in terms of maritime traffic, you now have in units of local self-government such a situation, you have a ferry that drives passengers from one city, it has to build loads and trucks in another city and then travels to those islands and then you know it's so little going around and it's actually happening in public space. You know, that's what we call a rival, right? But there's basically no consent. Now, you have a request from the x local self-government, we don't, there's no reform of local self-government. Maybe that would be a prerequisite, and maybe not, why? He doesn't have to. Units of local self-government that can carry out port activities why not join them all who cannot perform. Because the fact is, they have to have the ability and ability not only in the communal order but also in the means. But like this, this is how it's proven so far that it can't. They don't give me guarantees that any county will continue equally and evenly because the funds never know much. And private endeavors and watch the event become drowsy, illegal construction takes place in the maritime good zone, all sorts of things happening. I'm not saying a lot of it's bad, why not? But you couldn't have units of local self-government more about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86237	Thank you. Replication response, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86238	My colleague Rilja generally takes the idea of decentralisation, but we need to be careful. In fact, we need to establish criteria that are clear, procedures that are firm and simply procedures that must not be violated, which can be sanctioned. We've got situations like this to stop you from thinking. Therefore, the large marina whose owner enjoys the concession is paid neatly and represents one of the concepts of even nautical tourism in the Adriatic in its first neighborhood has a sports port and a communal port that turns local self-government into a nautical port. Irregular but public to actually compete with a business entity that most subscribes to its own budget. So that's, say, one situation. The second is the situation, at this time many units of local self-government which, through their municipal societies, are actually doing the tasks of port administrations in their own area. The port administrations must immediately give me 55%, and what's their cost, of course, when they pay, they're left with 10.15% and they're doing the whole job. So it doesn't make sense that someone does it without someone else reading the cream. It's no decentralisation whatsoever. That's if you're asking me to take advantage of local power plants. So that needs to be changed. Local self-government, especially in this situation should be allowed to have more income than what is happening in its space, but under clear criteria. Let's just say you have a fixed concession fee in one marina one, and in another 18. Why? Because... there was a discretionary right to say take it or leave it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86239	Thank you. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86240	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Beus, we're a little weird about your closing sentence like we're against 'cause we should wait for some other law. So you're not even assessing the law, but we need to wait for the government's proposal, so let's see what it's gonna be. And then you started in your debate quite fiercely so as an example of Istrian and Primorje-Gorski County, so there it is quite decentralised because they have, I don't know, 8 or 7 port administrations and then you end up ending up with all the islands up to 4000 immediately declaring it a maritime good and... These days we hear about selling the island, the Goli Island, and that government doesn't know it's forbidden by the Island Act. So someone who runs DUDI, a state office that manages state property, doesn't know that the State Islands Act says that the island can't be sold. And in vain all sorts of activities, looking for these some investors, some ideas, etc. What's the problem, why did you name the Primorian-Gorski County, Istria? Because there's SDP, there's IDS, there's decentralised management in a way that has more port administrations. But when you gather what they all collect together, they have the same, almost the same amount as Zadar County that has only one port administration, to build something with it. They can't have ten times as many now. Maybe they're working a little more efficiently somewhere, maybe they have this joint fund that helps to make something, so every port administration gets something out of it. But this law is not contrary to that. We're going further towards decentralisation. We clearly said, if there is an economic justification and it is possible to establish a port administration, so let it have it and, I don't know, Trogir or I don't know which other place, some island, Vis, let's say. We didn't say it couldn't, but your law, this is written in 188 articles, I looked at all the agendas backwards, none of them...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86241	Thank you. Replication response, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86242	So I made myself clear. Since your proposal does not bring all solutions well explained and analysed, like this, that land in terms of maritime goods is considered islands of 4,000 square meters... What? ... All right, all right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And let's also say there are some institutes in there that I wish were in that law. So that we wouldn't argue about it, I'd like to actually approach making a joint proposal. And secondly, I think you've mixed up the pots. The state can't sell the Goli Island or announce the sale of the Golog Island. Take a good look at what it says there. So the state announced that for a certain number of state properties it invites interested people with ideas about their possible use. So he's not selling. Sales in some cases when it comes to a building, when it comes to some kind of military facility, but it certainly isn't. So the state doesn't necessarily have to sell to bring something of its own state purpose to another purpose than it's ever been before, which was mostly abandoned. So the Goli Island is not sold and cannot be sold but is asked for a new purpose that will have a head and tail, have an economic justification, have one new content that may not be on one side killing the memory of events on that island, but will certainly allow some life to happen there, not this mockery that exists now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86243	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86244	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's fellow Richembergh, I figured out your argument well-intentioned, but I'm not the club's position not to support myself. So, I'm holding that on the trail of what you've been saying and what I've largely held is that in order to improve the text of this law, if we could, and that's where I'd estimate that your club has also supported and released the law into another reading, so let's wait for that proposal of the government and then maybe we can discuss it then. Why did we mention the islands to go all the way into the marine well-being? It wasn't done, as it was said, from an eye or arbitrary. In fact, the government, i.e. the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism and Transport and Infrastructure, brought a state programme to the disposal of small uninhabited and occasionally populated islands. Then we analyzed 667 small islands by property, by surface, by culture... and we found that just the islands of up to 4000 meters, or 0.4 hectares, almost none of them have private property, that they are usually rocks, prunes, reefs, etc., etc. where the maritime well is anyway, it's just not marked in land books or in the cataster as a maritime good, but as an island with some pasture and general folk property. So, this bill of law states that such small islands, so that it doesn't ever occur to anyone that such islands sell, that we automatically put them from general folk property into the general marine well-being, the general good and can never again become the subject of purchase. And as for the maritime good line, I don't have time, so I'll probably be late, now I'm not opening that topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86245	Replication response, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86246	Comrade Bačić, we've talked more than once. I think we got along very well. And yours and my interest is not to be about a legal proposal that will address matters of maritime good and seaport... political battles, but to finally pass the law. And you know very well under what conditions the law can be passed, and in that sense we will support the law that will be more complete. So I can tell you now. Your law is probably not going to pass right now, so it's going to fall out of the process because it's not going to go into another reading. But if the government doesn't deliver its legislative procedure by the end of this year to the end of this year, then make sure that the CNS is going to refer the law to the procedure, even if it's very similar to yours because we won't allow this mandate to end without being qualified to discuss it and not between us 14 here but among many more people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86247	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86248	You mentioned the word circus, the mess in space, and the law that's in effect with the 2003 corrections. The fact is, there's a gentleman... witness that from that time in 2003 to here many things in space have changed, primarily in terms of imposing spatial planning on all units of local self-government that haven't done so. So this mess is limited to that space that was happening until that time, and spatial plans have also defined the purposes of the whole part of the space. I'm glad you said you supported our initiative to pass quality law as soon as possible. Today, however, we witnessed the committee when our assistant minister, who is not here because they are not interested in what we are going to say, said that this proposal is unacceptable for the reason that he is greatly decentralisation of the powers of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to manage maritime goods. We who live down at sea, who deal with these problems daily, and precisely my example of the town of Bakar is the best witness that happens when central decision-making is what's going to happen in that space so it's devastated and destroyed everything. So what the 2008 law, which was presented by Mr Bačić, the Association of Cities organized by expert teams, made observations and proposals largely embedded in our bill, not everyone. But the key to everything is that those who live next to the sea, from him and for him who kept him in these bays of ours in the form of what they are that we can present him to tourists, both to foreigners and to the state to make some income to these cities, and to the municipalities to manage that space and to enable them to decentralised ways of managing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86249	Thank you. The answer to the replica Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86250	I'd be happy if I could agree with this finding of yours that all the cities and municipalities have really preserved, unfortunately they haven't. Unfortunately, there are locations where it is evident that even those who lived downstairs, we are not talking about the authorities or any companies, but very people who lived in that belt were treating them very, very arrogantly. The space-plan documentation will definitely have to be harmonised in many of its criteria when a spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia is adopted. I hope that very soon we will be witnesses of this, that is I think a revolutionary step forward that will facilitate many things because it will define what the general interests are, which are regional, which are local. On the other hand, I think we underestimate the fact that when a representative of the state comes to you whether they're an assistant minister or any state official he naturally represents the idea of expanding the space of power of the state government itself. Well, look how the officers of the same ministry behave to you. So who actually butchered the proposal that the expert task force gave to the ministry rather than the officers of the third echelon. And what are we here for? We've led ourselves to talk now about someone's interests that have been ruling for years. That's gonna change. Maybe Mr. Butorac hasn't been told yet, but he's going to go into decentralisation. It's just a question of how. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86251	Ante Jerolimov, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86252	Well, my esteemed colleague, here I was thinking, and I listened to you very carefully, and I wanted to sign from A to Z that there wasn't a first and last sentence. And with the first and last sentence, I don't know whether you're knowingly or unconsciously texted in the last sentence when you said that you should wait a little while longer to coordinate that other laws need to be harmonised to wait for a proposal of a new law which you claim neither you saw it nor you know the correction of those texts that I believe because no one has seen alive because one is presented in the second river in Dubrovnik, the third in Zadar, and that changes in the walk, these experts above in walking change. The third echelon to mention. Well, that should be your first echelon when it comes to marine good and seaports. And the third echelon of those who suggest it, I don't mean the assistant Butorac, but some others. You don't know if you're aware that you've ordered people who live on the marine good, who live in seaports, means in coastal cities, municipalities, places where the blood vessel is the house of that, where daily life takes place to wait a little bit. It's like we're telling you, you know, wait, don't have dinner tonight. You'll have dinner for Christmas. Don't eat till Christmas. Or that first finding that the model of management of maritime goods was not good, with which we agree in all counties except in the Primorje-Gorski and Istrian County. I cannot agree with your findings because I believe that in Zadar County it was managed and managed perfectly, given how much this bad law allows, or this law. So let me remind you that over the past seven, eight years we've restored almost all the ports, all the ports, all the port infrastructure that hasn't been restored by Austria-Hungarian.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86253	You have your word later, so you'll proceed. The answer to the replica Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86254	My colleague Jerolimov, I did not say that their experiences were best than that they had decentralised their system which proved to be good. Secondly, when you from the height of the HDZ MPs are trying to disqualify me and say that I order people to have lunch or dinner at Christmas, my dear Mr. Jerolimov, in 2008 you told them to have dinner for Christmas to ask God what year because in 2008 until 2011 when you had scissors and canvas you failed to solve this problem and now you are wise about my first sentence and last sentence being only controversial. Yours were four years controversial in which you failed to do elementary things, you fought different interests you failed to break them, admit it, and everything is fine. Well, if it were up to you, we wouldn't be talking about this today. So I invite you to do this thing together, we couldn't, obviously, and this government has problems, but if the time has come to break these resistances, to finally get rid of it and make a good solution, so don't argue about it now, so we both know what the problem is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86255	On behalf of the HDZ club, colleague of Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86256	I'd like to thank the vice president, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. This is before I move to just, to take advantage of this moment so that I may say that for the southern part of Croatia, the four years where we have been wandering, and we have restored all the waterfronts of the Austro-Hungarian they have not been restored, since the Austro-Hungarian Francis Josip Emperor, Francis Joseph has last restored them. But now it's not the subject. And I agree that we need to reach one consensus to find because people don't lead to anything. Here is the proposal for a law on maritime good and seaports, three of our representatives and representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, and I must say that here we have often witnessed here in this House that HDZ has been nominated by the rulings as an unstructured opposition that only criticises and does not offer solutions. So here's exactly this bill of law from colleagues and confirming that it's not like that, but that how some individuals want to show it. First of all, I think that from today's discussion that we will all agree that the existing law has become obsolete, that it is exhausted, that it is in many ways inapplicable and that it causes more uncertainty and problems on the ground and practice than it solves the issue of maritime goods and seaports. Therefore, it was our duty and our duty to offer exactly one such bill. Unfortunately, even in the beginning, we found a typical misunderstanding of the government that gave a negative opinion without a legitimate law. And here in Parliament it took nearly five months for the point to come to the agenda. However, in view of the fact that this is the first reading, some are predicting us, I guess, the last hope, and I call on everyone to be constructive, to make our proposals together to crystallize as best possible the law. Because the maritime well represents one of the most important economic resources of the state and for coastal towns, the municipalities of cities, especially those on the islands, it is the breadth of the housewives. Life is practically taking place on the marine good and at seaports. Non-functioning of the existing legal solution is not only a hindrance to the economy but also to everyday life, so we would dare to say that for all coastal cities and municipalities this is one of the most important laws. As a proposing colleague, one of the promoters spoke and elaborated the whole law, we will in the name of the club only highlight the more important provisions. And what we care about and what we should clearly point out is that this law clearly defines that maritime good, is generally good for the Republic of Croatia and that it cannot acquire ownership on any basis. This law also prescribes the breadth of land space considered a maritime good, and therefore it is a good solution to this law that everything that is not in building, tourist and similar zones is measured by a minimum of 6 metres away, or by a line of medium, higher, high waters. In other cases that are economically active, the limit of maritime goods should be determined. Mr Bačić recalled that it had a length of 5835km of maritime goods and that so far only 1050 and 18% were measured. In order to speed up this process, because if at this rate we continue to go all the way, it would take several decades, this law also changes the way in which the maritime goods border is defined so that the maritime goods borders are determined by the County Commission for the maritime goods borders that have 7 members. Because the current law needlessly wastes time and double work because after the work and proposal of the county commission, it is necessary to obtain the consent of certain ministries that we consider unnecessary because the proposal for maritime goods borders has been proposed, developed by the most professional persons, geodetics, port captains, representatives of the court, representatives of the state administration, maritime offices in the county and representatives of units of local self-government. And we don't see the need for someone from the first echelon to bless it. Furthermore, this law also stipulates that the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government, adopts a strategic plan for the management and management of maritime goods for the 10-year period as well as a strategic plan for the management and development of seaports for the 10-year period. It is also proposed to set up advice on maritime good and seaports as an inter-resorial expert advisory body. What we see as an important feature of this law is that it contributes to the decentralisation of economic governance of maritime goods. So, with the extension of powers, the redistribution of funds from concessions is also proposed, so as you heard from Mr. Bačić, it would go to the counties 40%, the cities of 35% and the state 25%, but apart from the procedure and the award of concessions and the rights and obligations of the concessionaires, it would also be detailedly arranged by the Institute of Publishing Rights, which is very important for investors who invest through a business bank. This law in the concessions chapter paid particular attention to the deadlines for the economic use of maritime goods when it advocates a reduction in the years of concession and for those years given by the Croatian Parliament to 75 years, the Government to 50 years, and is proposed to increase to those concessions given by the county to 30 years. Why should it not be elaborated because these larger investments are likely to return in 25, 30 years and we believe that it is enough 75 years for them to return and that the investor is earning, and it is happening vice versa in the local area, or those concessions given by the county where the return is somewhere between 10 and 15 years for the construction of some marines, and the concession takes a total of 20 years to detimise the investor to even invest in such buildings. This law would address both the issue and the definition of sea beaches and anchors. And here is one of my personal suggestions, to edit or prescribe the possibility and method of feeding existing beaches that are damaged by the action of natural and marine processes. It is now simply not working in practice and for example a small sandy beach that this winter sea will send out sand, existing sand, natural sand, can't be fed because no one in this country, no institution wants to issue any consent or confirmation that you can feed that beach with the same sand. In the context of decentralisation, I do not want to forget... this law establishes the jurisdiction of the county assemblies to determine in their areas the number of port administrations, as well as the port areas of each port administration. Out of our 7 coastal counties each has its specificities, its needs and logically, the counties themselves know best how many port administrations they need. I agree with today's discussion that if it comes to second reading, it is considered that the county port administrations can give for a symbolic price on the management of a municipal link in certain public transport ports, communal societies, units of local self-government, and not for reasons to bring or take away any more significant financial resources, but in the first place to introduce order. Because there are cases that the domicile population often runs out of connections in its own harbor for riots that exist on the ground and the lawlessness that governs those ports. And when we add that the law stipulates that surveillance tasks for the exercise of permits and control of the general use of maritime goods can be carried out by local self-government units through their public directors, the effect would be even better, and this method has also proved successful in the case of the Construction Inspectorate Act. To conclude, maritime good and port management, anchors and berths is of exceptional economic importance which can achieve its potential for the proper legislative regulation for the development of the Republic of Croatia. We are not only using the existing law but we are losing hundreds of millions of kuna a year because of the lack of compliance with real life and needs, and we are also lagging behind the necessary investments due to the short deadlines of county concessions, unsettled maritime goods and general discrepancies and the application of laws with today's state and need. Once again, I appeal to all those parliamentary deputies and I call on them to get involved, to make their remarks and criticisms and suggestions, and to do on these grounds a law that is at the service of people because it does not matter to them, as is important to our government or to certain parliamentary representatives, who has proposed or passed the law, but rather matters to them what it is and whether it serves the purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86257	Peja Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86258	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague, I certainly would not boast of what you did in the eight years you were in power in the reconstruction of maritime goods, investing in marine goods, and especially not with what you did building ports, renovating ports because we will deal with it for many years, as we can see today, for example in Gagenica. But that's not why I answered. When I listen to these thank-yous, I can say that someone really tried to write this bill, but it certainly wasn't someone from the HDZ club, it was the experts from the ministry who wrote it during your term, and you took it out of the drawer and took it with you. So I ask you, fellow Boric, you were the Secretary of State in the Resort Ministry, why didn't you do it in those years when you had some moments and an absolute majority in this home. But okay, it doesn't matter. What is important is that this law has no answer to the key problem of maritime goods in the Republic of Croatia, and this key problem relates to the period of conversion and privatisation, concerns the handling of properties that were introduced into social capital and later on into the underlying capital of companies that were enrolled in maritime goods, for which companies issued shares or business shares, paid them, people bought those shares and you do not have one word in your law on social property, you do not have one word on conversion. This is a co-worker's half-product, and that's what he was when you worked it while you were in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86259	The answer to the replica of Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86260	Well, it seems to me that my colleague Pedja didn't even replicate it to me, but he was replicating it to the experts, and I'm very glad that you finally admitted that there were assistants, state secretaries and ministers working in the ministry, which I wouldn't be able to say for all of you right now, for some I might say. Listen, then we built and worked, we've been preparing the law since 2008, it was presented in 2009. A comprehensive public debate has been held. The municipalities and cities were consulted, and it was a three-year job. In 2011, you came to power in the ministry and instead of continuing the job, that you had eventually completed if you had any objections to that law you had not brought it in for three years. And now you're telling us why we write the laws for you. We're not going to ask you about the minister or anyone else's compensation, because we don't need it. We work to make our people in the coast and islands better, and we're proud of everything that's been done in the harbor, communal, social and any infrastructure in recent years. Because for 60 years, your government has done nothing, at least in Zadar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86261	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86262	So here's to your decentralisation issue in the part where you mentioned food for the beaches. A draft bill, one of those who walk here between our units of local self-government, although none has been completed nor is it said to be the one that the government allegedly has. I don't know if there are or no more speeches to commit self-government units to both regular and extraordinary maintenance of maritime goods. Regular maintenance is considered to care for the protection and maintenance of maritime goods in general, and then we come to the key issue of what we are all talking about all the time about this unfortunate centralisation, or decentralisation. It is unacceptable to accept any solution that requires the units of local self-government, and we are all aware of these obligations, you and I, who have spent large amounts of budgets practically unintendedly on maritime well-being because the laws that have been in force so far and in this part of the county's port administrations, someone here mentioned the Primorje-Gorski County that couldn't do it, so you did it there in Zadar County hundreds of meters, that I don't speak miles of shore. With me 980 m of coast, the city has invested more than 10 million kuna from its resources, and there is no jurisdiction over the management of this maritime goods, unlike the county and the county port administration, which participated with a small percentage. And that's exactly what we're talking about and what I'm sure I'm going to agree with Mr. Rilje, who lived and worked on that part, and that's how it worked. I don't know why this government is afraid of local self-government units, and it's obviously afraid of them when they impose solutions like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86263	Replication response, Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86264	Well, this topic has turned a little bit into politicization, and on this particular subject there should be no politicisation and all common and those who have sea and coastal connections and those who have no connection should be unique, make a good law that will be at their service, to help people who live down there in the front row, and then to all other investors. Unfortunately, all these years, no one's gonna worry about your end of your colleague, Klaric, if you don't worry about yourself. No one in the ministry, no one in the state. And there are also a number of places in my municipality that no one in Croatia has ever heard of, let alone that he set foot on the coast and that all falls on the units of local self-government, on their own finding that there will be local, construction, UPU, DPU, environmental impact studies, labs, this, what to then pray for someone on their knees that this piece of waterfront or promenade or beach in his place or place that belongs to his municipality is solved and arranged. The famous 310 Law, which says the Law of the Sea, says the unit of local self-government is a regular maintenance. Today to ask someone what regular maintenance is, which is a recovery, which is a reconstruction when it comes to maritime well-being. Of the 100 experts, you'll get 100 different interpretations and no one will ever sign you alive that it doesn't require all of what I've listed from the UPU, the labs, the studies, even if it's a support wall or a bank that's right here in this law and the tendency is that these things are being solved in a spotless manner because there's no time for it. And given the fact, I didn't mention unscrupulous Austro-Hungarian. I mentioned them because it took old edges. When are you going to undermine such a waterfront? To anchor it, it collapses all over. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86265	Thank you. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86266	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerolimov, we wanted here with this bill of law to reach some kind of agreement. However, this thesis will not be because you suggested it or some experts wrote it or you didn't bring it back then, and you could actually lead to the government's justification that she doesn't want this, because there's a proposal waiting for her, so you don't have to be too angry about it because these people are too short or too close to looking to not see far enough. And for three years we waited and we just reacted when we saw someone making false promises, until Christmas this year, until Christmas. I guess this year we might get a Christmas Marine Good Law directed by this government. And this is really the 188th article. I've looked at the agendas in two final convocations. There were all sorts of suggestions from the opposition led by the current prime minister, but there was everything there. Remember the Value Added Tax Act. They were planning a reduction, and when they came, they immediately raised 2% up, etc. There were such political laws to make an impression. This is not political law, this is a professional law that clearly offers first and perhaps the only real reform in the 188th article, a start for the next government, so let it continue. He speeds up the process because they want me to admit it or not today at the ministry you have three employees in the department who care about maritime goods boundaries so go to their office and you'll see what the number of items are in them. It stops at the last level. Everybody down there, get over there. Even though the state only has losses. The government is moving along with this proposal one big job and leaving it to some others, the county to determine. What else is she supposed to do? She has a strategy left, and the strategy is brought by the Parliament. No level means in the law from local self-government to the Croatian Parliament has been avoided.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86267	Thank you. Ante Jerolimov, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86268	Well, my colleague Boric, you're right about everything you said and in some way since it's 20.10, that there's a little bit of us in the Assembly but probably someone in Croatia is looking at this, mostly our people down there, and I'm glad that all this was said here is just doing these Croatian public and our people who have heard what's important. It doesn't matter what's proposed, whether it's good for them, but it matters who suggested it, and even within the ruling coalition, it doesn't matter if they don't come, not that they'll support what's good, but we'll go out with our law. So I don't think we're doing well, not working in the right direction as a whole. Because the concern of the man who suggested, who voted, who brought it, is that man wants to live and make his life easier because this law depends on a large number of people who are sentenced to life on the coast and on the islands. And I agree that this isn't any political law, it's supposed to be a professional law. And it was he who was written on the basis of experience in the Ministry of Transport, Communications and Infrastructure of Mr. Bačić and Secretary of State Mr. Boric, our colleagues here today. And that law was only to be completed, to achieve one consensus in general political terms, because it is not a political issue, but a matter of professional life on the coast and on the islands and bringing it. And on the belief from 2012 that it will be passed, that it will be passed by the end of 2013, we now hear that it will be by the end of 2014, only we down in Dalmatia pray that they will really pass the law, but the law as God commands and that it will not again be some radical law as it has been.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86269	Damir Rilje, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86270	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague of Jerolimov, here's something you said that I could quite agree with, actually, I agree. You said here at the pay phone that there are specificities and aspirations of certain areas. I couldn't agree more. That's what we're going back to what actually, here's my colleague, Boric, mentioned earlier, there should be some kind of reform. Then let's decentralize the story to the end, that's all. Because look, semi-products really shouldn't exist. Why? To fit in half. Finally decentralisation resources and management but also responsibility. And that jurisdiction in any case has a state in terms of prescribing conditions and ways in which certain areas may be port areas and areas which can manage maritime goods. What would the county congregation do, not the municipal or city council that has the potential for it? I'm not going to decide who they are, someone's going to decide, right? In any case, this will eventually come before the Parliament, but some experts will calculate and decide. Look, the dikes, the beaches, the anchors, the moorings, the communal circuits, nothing new is even made up. Many have received a large portion of the cake so far, and in fact the local self-government unit has done everything. We can't have inspectors or anyone else overnight, and in fact all state institutions and catastries and land and state inspectorates would have to prevent right now, someone mentioned those wild marinas, the ports that are unfair competition. But we all know that. But I wouldn't waste my time on that. I would actually like the initiative to be really that of someone who needs to be managed, who feels exactly the problem on his back and where he will best valorize and try to correct himself, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86271	Ante Jerolimov, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86272	I thank my colleague Rilje. In large part you're right and in large part I agree and anyone who feels the sea, anyone who feels the coast, anyone who feels the islands thinks, if he thinks honestly, honestly, unbiasedly, supraly because this is a professional issue, and not a political question, he thinks like you do. We can differ in some shades, in some small ways, and decentralisation is the mother of all mothers. Without decentralisation, we have nothing to talk about. But we already know in advance, and you know it, and you probably at least heard that this new proposal that changes like this goes towards greater centralised rather than decentralisation. And here, I invite you, I'm glad and we said that even under this law in the second reading, if he were to go to county port administrations, we would allow for a symbolic price on governance to give a communal bond in certain ports open to public transport to municipal societies units of local self-government. Is there more decentralisation? Is there more surveillance than knowing what's in his harbor? That the communal director can check whether he has a contract, that the Slovenians, Germans, Austrians, or I don't know who has no connection. And that's why we're going to get organized, there's enough of us in the Parliament. Let's push this into another reading, and we'll reach a consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86273	We're moving on to an individual debate. Comrade Tomislav Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86274	Dear Vice President, fellow MPs. There, 8 and 13, we here, as many of us as there are here in the Parliament and those who discuss the most about this bill, are the ones who live by the sea and are operationally dealing with these problems. So someone mentioned here, it seems to me Mr. Grbin, bound to have been doing some professional services in the ministry, so someone pulled it out of the drawer. In 2008, it seems to me that Branko was then a secretary of state who was making a proposal for a new law. In 2009, all of us who are deeply interested in this problem were in Plitvice at the presentation, after which a broad and large expert debate was held. My city, like most towns and municipalities, is located in the Association of Cities of the Republic of Croatia, we even hired an expert assembly, a group that gathered prominent experts and gave our suggestions, our remarks, our opinions on the proposal of the law. A large part of these remarks and these opinions have been incorporated into this bill. It refers to the part that's just talking about the legalization of something that was built by '68, when there's the last video, it's about what can be legalized, and it's been built on the sea's good with project documentation,... building permits. This isn't about legalizing something that's been done out of the wild. Those remarks were just us association and city. I don't see any reason why municipalities and cities couldn't manage, and even this proposal of ours is trying to find some kind of compromise here, so it lowers to the level of big cities, why not small cities and municipalities. The fact is that in this country, at this point in time, the investments that are in place, which are in a phase of realization or are being implemented, are being carried out by cities and municipalities, regardless of size. They're not run by the state. The State, or the Ministry, is now doing this, must be giving this party key, someone more, someone less, but the fact is, regardless of the party's membership, that these cities and municipalities are preparing project documentation, resulting in building permits, local permits and even funding and collecting documentation for European funds, far more than the ministries and states. And that's the key to solving this problem. The fact is, the 2003 law is out of date. The fact is, it needs to be changed. And what HDZ has started in this way is this particular engine that needs to be run by this government, we all finally go along and pass that law, but not in this way to get by the political key because someone in the coalition has a majority in the House, a vote so that such a law can raise hands and Mr. Rilje because that's what the party told him but just like you discussed here and how you discussed on the board because you know the problem very well and how it is done on the ground. The fact is that by 2003, when we left Yugoslavia, during the war, there was a verse in space. The fact is that since 2003, 2004, 5, 6 has been imposed on local self-government units that have not developed spatial plans, set deadlines for them to work out their spatial plans and define... which one will be. And that lasts, now that part of the job is done and can no longer happen, in the sense of lawlessness on the ground, without seeing it from, not from the plane, but right down from the first part of the river. I like to talk about giving some examples. Someone here mentioned, it seems to me to be a colleague of Beus, like... an example of the coastal-goran county. Here's an example of centralised and politicization and decentralisation. The Primorje-Gorski County appoints the director of some county port administration and appoints the board of directors and county port administrations, exclusively by some political party key, at all... the local self-government unit... is not in the coalition in the county assembly and it is not good. The fact is that the city that adopts a spatial plan is also accepted by the ministry, which is accepted by the county, which is in effect when a request for a change of the maritime good line begins, that the county will not accept such a thing and... You interrupted me? The county won't accept it, nor will it, as it has already given its consent... they haven't followed, set out to change the borders of the maritime goods. Now we're going back to communal ports, ports that aren't in this law in that form that I would personally like and what the proposal of the Association of Cities is. So, I see no reason why the county for space that is spatially within the aquariums and areas of the settlement, or local self-government of the city would be designed for some kind of sports port, a municipal port and, as a lineage transport, which would make it impossible to manage the city, the municipalities, whether, through the way Mr. Jerolimov said, through his municipal company, through his department, but to discuss competitions. And then there's a contest, if it's a sports port, some kind of sports fishing company that can register who knows where, and not... The primary concern of all that, and that's why I said earlier, our cities in the old parts of the settlement wouldn't look like what it looks like now... the population wasn't skating that rock, rebuilding that waterfront, taking care of it all the time because these people live there from the sea, for the sea and for the sea and for us living downstairs, no one can say that we won't take better care of it, and that we're going to devast the space than it could happen in this case. We have the Strategic Investments Act that we've made. When we said he wasn't good at making changes, they refused the same way they're refusing now and this law. Now they're going to change that law, for exactly the reason why the state is itself or the ministry and some minister put it in his head that he's going to bring some kind of strategic investment, that he's going to negotiate with some investor and put it somewhere in some kind of forest, and that's what makes it possible for him. In the same way they try, and this is what the Deputy Minister today told us not to accept this proposal because they want to centralise maritime good governance as much as possible. That's not good, that's all of us who are on the beach, by the sea, who do these jobs, we know it's not good. This area must be managed by local self-governments, in that section of the settlement area, in these municipal ports, in the old parts of the city. And it must precisely distinguish the jurisdiction of the county port administrations, the state port administrations and the operation of the area, and the spatial plans have long been defined because we have all brought them. And the county has come up with its own spatial plan, we've come up with spatial plans of municipalities and cities, and the state spatial plan can only be in that section that refers to these very capital investments that are of energy, traffic or not know what importance. See on the website you have these suggestions, conclusions from the Association of Cities. It's crucial to resolve property issues in space. It tried to give this bill a model in what way. It should be said that the Parliament must adopt a development strategy. We haven't discussed it, and now we're discussing some kind of law that has already suffered a dozen forms that everyone and everyone where some big cities, counties, states, centralization is all mentioned, and no one has seen that paper. I personally did not see their final proposal, and this proposal is visible he was as final as the one from 20008, 2009, the one we discussed in 2010. Large cities in the part of economic use of management are even with the county, however it is unacceptable that the system of port, local, municipal ports, ports of special purpose, sports ports and tourist ports are not transferred to the management of cities and municipalities. That's what we've been saying all along, it could be read from both discussion and Mr. Jerolim's debate, Beus Richembergh also came up with that question, about him was Bačić, Boric, all of us Mr. Rilje who we know because we do it and we live with it. A whole series of proposals are guidelines that have been done so far, experiences that we know how they work and the fact that only in microlocations through and in cooperation of the local self-government unit, the county, and then as Ante said, the first echelon can run this in the right direction and achieve income and a better life for our people.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86275	Thank you. Damir Rilje, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86276	Madam Vice President. My colleague Klaric, in principle you mentioned who votes at one point. Look, we all vote as we vote, you have instructions, these have instructions, we all have some guidance. But we now have the demands of the local self-government unit and the need for decentralisation. And the fact is that a strategy should first come, and then behind that one law that I claim and I personally think and I am such a belief, must be decentralised to the extent that the municipal or city council can manage without intervening anyone. In other words, I'm just saying this, the county port administration has existed, or there doesn't have to be an expression of desire or opportunity, but where there's will and possibility of a unit of local self-government, it must legally be approved, enabled and the funds must be decentralised together with the management rights. And to me, it seems only correct and honest. In order to be able to bring that Riva you know to a function or anything else that is in economic function, it was either a sports port or not, you must not wait to see a rash if you have received documentation and a building permit to wait for a catastre or a grounder for 100 years to come into office. Also here, just before he spoke to his colleague, Jerolimov, look where the funds were going like this. Maybe it went to Zadar, I congratulate them on what they did, but look, I'd like it to go to the other side, you know. Not only in Trogir, not only in Bakar, not only in Vodice, but to go as far as you can here if we stick to honesty the same should be an even development. So by rejecting all those politicizations that were like, who, who ordered the fact is that this is also one proposal that has its own history that we also heard today on the board and which was when it was, so it came now because it fits, but let's let it go stick to citizens' interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86277	Thank you. The reply to the replica Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86278	The two of us agree to agree. When I talk about decentralisation and about this law and in general about decentralisation, I don't just think about these questions, I'm talking about everything. You could have heard these days, I don't know Minister Jovanovic when he was a minister introduced preschool education and put in charge of the local self-government unit that they had to organise it. They have to organize it and they have to pay for it, the state will give 20 kuna per child per month. And the rest on whose cargo? Local self-government units. It's just one example. You could have heard this second minister of the new one who came in connection with this transport or the assistants in the teaching, and he'll try to work it out in cooperation with the local self-government unit. In what way? That units of local self-government from a budget that is constantly being torn apart by their failures are financing and stopping their investments. That's what's going on, that's the problem of this country. And that's the centralization I'm talking about. And it's also about the maritime goods, it's about the sociale because they're back on our hump, that's about the Hill and Mountain Area Act that ended because Mr. Grcic calculated that it was statistically developed because they were... of some kind of Crikvenica because they have 700 inhabitants, so the budget when they split into its head comes out a lot, so they took down a third of their budget and imposed all these obligations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we're talking about. We are talking about having to move more, turn that record and start looking at units of local self-government regardless of what size, whether they are in Gorski Kotar, Slavonia, Istria or in some developed Zagreb on the engine of their development and state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86279	Thank you. And Josip Boric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86280	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Klaric, I'm going to look back at one part of your debate, the part where you said there was no new bureaucracy, and really if it's worth something and there's a huge flaw in this law that was in the public debate from the current government, that's the agency. We don't need a new bureaucracy. We don't need it. So to get... financed by some kind of means that would be collected from that maritime goods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And all the time here we are democratically trying to convince most of us that it would be good to let us into the second round, i.e. The second reading, and we hope that our esteemed vice president has the strength to tell the club president that this would be a good transfer. Let the second reading cross those proposals that need to come with the one that's here in the debate. And we're doing it in public, nowhere on the side. And we're looking, because we think this is good and that maybe if we met with the state's attorney's office and their opinion would certainly have found some of their objections here too. But then let's do it together. And to demystify that story about the Landlady. The port of Rijeka, the Rijeka Gateway project, was the first to be built to dock for a large along the coastal ferry. When he came in, he barely agreed to make a mounting ramp out of it, and it's still there. Whoever it is, it's the city of Rijeka, so it doesn't bother anyone. But why let go of the story of the Landlady? Well, because there's another problem, not a ramp, so that's where they brought the 50-year-old ferry to land on the ramp, low. Okay, it'll adapt, it's the least of the problems, it'll be solved. The problem is the terminal, so it does not carry money to Zagreb Airport that runway the planes land on. She's needed but the money's in the terminal building. That's right in that port, there's money in the terminal building and the government doesn't want to make it, they're offering some containers for passengers. So if it's a project to support, then it's not right. Make a terminal and you'll see you'll be fine and the ramps will be great. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86281	Thank you very much. And look at the screen and the time. Tomislav Klaric, reply to the replica. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86282	Here's what you mentioned to the agencies if we need another agency. So here we are today discussing the report of an agency with 10 employees with 2 million and what, 700 thousand kuna spent which is ultimately our... The transport minister said he didn't need it, but he put it together, but he didn't shut it down, so I guess those ten employees are still left. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the projects, especially those mentioned by you, the question here is often whether some minister from Zadar invested more in Zadar and too little in Rijeka because Rijeka was SDP when you mentioned the agreement. More than ever, more than ever now when there were most ministers from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, so the port of Rijeka Gateway you're talking about is the Rijeka detour of the road from the St. Kuzm do to the island of Krk which was recently opened, a tunnel under the Vežice complete infrastructure corridor was built just at the time. Whether it's half a meter higher or half a meter lower, the projectors projected on the basis of some standards. And Croatia's standards, unfortunately, at this point we know well, let's just look at the ferry that's sailing from Valbisca there to you on Lopar, where all our states are, are our ships. And it is normal that a project that was built by 21st century standards will not satisfy any ship or every ferry built before or immediately after World War II but should look to the future and I fully support you there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86283	She's a colleague of Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86284	Thank you, well-respected vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. Well, after 11 years, we have a proposal for a law on marine good and seaports on benches in the Parliament. It is sad to say that we are not even 10% of Parliamentarians today and I believe that there is hardly any representative who did not stay at sea this summer and saw places where a necessary recovery is needed, where there has been a devastation, where a reconstruction of the maritime goods is needed. Not to say it's unfortunate that there are no colleagues coming from the island and the coast. Maybe that's something else he's saying, maybe it's very little that can be resented by this law, so they don't have any objections, so I can't say, and there's a party discipline that doesn't allow them to say anything good about it. We know that there is no interested investor in tourist facilities, landowners by the sea, concessionaires, unit leader of local self-government, island or coastal land which has not been expected for many years by new law. If this could have happened sooner, it could have, but there's nothing we can do to get it back. If today we have a law and a proposal on benches, why don't we discuss it? And here I would like to invite all parliamentary representatives, of course, to accept this bill and give us suggestions for a second reading, to give us the opportunity because we all need a new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports together, and we have concluded this today. Can you do better, probably can do better, but we know for sure he can't do it before. Now we have 47 more points on the agenda that we have to discuss, so we know there's a budget rebalance coming up and then a budget for 2015. That's why it's hard to believe when a colleague Beus says that we can talk about the final bill, that we can have him on the benches by New Year's Eve. And now I'd like something more concrete that I think is well governed by this law. Here is the beginning when it comes to the notion of maritime good, it is said that it should be removed from the maritime good building and other land buildings that serve the regular use of buildings that were neither now functionally connected to the sea, which were built before February 15th, '68. Although lying within a six-metre belt is about buildings in the old city's cores. The same applies to buildings with the belonging land of cultural, religious, historical, traditional, traffic-public character and officially classified as such, as well as buildings that have a fenced protective character and function. We know that many of our citizens, especially on the islands, have their facilities by the sea itself, far closer than it is 6 meters away, and we know that on the maritime good, property rights cannot be acquired or other real rights on any basis, so neither inheritance nor purchases are possible. Furthermore, the land that was created by the overfishing of the sea, and the border is not covered by the maritime goods belt under this law, will be owned by the Republic of Croatia. The truth is that so far everything that's been built on the embankment and the rash has been defined by maritime well-being, but this has not been exactly as demarcated. That's why I think an article like this should necessarily be in the new law, even if it comes from the other side. We have heard from colleagues, Beus, criticising this declarative institutional act, and I personally think that it is very good and only 18% of the established maritime borders are good evidence that, in essence, a solution to the setting of maritime goods limits as a constitutional act, we should work only in case of subsequent enlargement or constraint of borders. The obligations of municipalities of cities, large cities and counties have been said by many colleagues, and I would once again point out that it is very good because many leaders have been punished both infraction and punishment for the maritime goods store. As a matter of fact, it was only necessary rehabilitations, construction of supporting and protective walls, and now it is possible to even walkways to work outside the concession and port areas, with the approval granted by the representative body of the unit of local self-government, of course, on the basis of the annual management plan. We have further control, it would be carried out by the municipal redistribution of local self-government units. In fact, we know that port captains are missing on the coast, and they too, by their laws and their free time, can be dealt with in the first order of safety at sea, and then the maritime well remains unsupervised. Another provision that is very good and will surely be welcomed by all the leaders of the local self-government units, that, at the request of the municipality or the city, the County Assembly may, at the mayor's proposal, authorise the granting of concessions within their territorial jurisdiction, also to the municipality, or the city. The newspapers are also concessions on demand and these concessions on first row requirements on roads, railways, bridges, sewerage, energy telecommunications network, solars, service facilities, but something that will certainly delight the owners of tourist facilities so that the concession on request can be given for the economic use of the beach and the berths of the nautical anchor which, in their position, make up a functional infrastructure and spatial unit with only one catering, tourist or accommodation facility. However, it is important to point out that it is not a question of where the tourist zone is in the village but only in tourist areas outside the settlement or if it is the accommodation facilities of the most category, which means 5 stars. This is repeated once more specifically in this section regarding sea beaches, hotels, camps and tourist resorts. However, it is again specified and states that the concessionary is obliged to provide a smooth passage, promenade, swimming, or use, because the concession provider cannot exclude the general use of the beach and is obliged to ensure and protect the public interest of using the beach and the needs of a wide circle of users should be met. This law also distinguishes a natural sea anchor from a nautical, then a service anchor. In this law I also think it is a good port area and the docking docks of the port are divided into the operational part, the municipal part of the port and if there is room and needs of the nautical part of the port. So you take care of the owners of water facilities that have residence in the area of the unit of local self-government or are mostly staying in the area. Furthermore, when it comes to order at the port it is also a newspaper that port administrations and concessionaries are obliged to determine the costs of equipping ports with devices and equipment for the reception and disposal of waste from ships. Of course, it excludes or excludes water facilities in public, coastal and liner shipping and waterway facilities on a permanent basis. So all of these will have to pay and bear the costs of taking care of and accepting waste from ships. Finally, in the transitional and final provisions, it deals in detail with almost all categories, from those where concession contracts are signed, those in the concession process to for example. in the event that legal persons have exercised the right of first purchase as well as in the event that legal persons have bought from those legal persons the right to use the facilities in which they receive the funds. In the end, all the illegal constructions on maritime goods built in the period of February 15th means after that famous February 15th, '68. By the day of entry into force of this law, it becomes a part of the maritime goods, and their owners have no right to compensation for the damage to the building. And here's another call for all MPs to support this proposal until the second reading and to suggest to us and, of course, through the amendments, I can make amendments, but to adopt this law more urgently so that we can enter the next tourist season with at least a little less problems than we have so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86285	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86286	Here, Mrs. Juričev, you said it was hard for you to believe that before the new year as promised, this law would be passed. I don't believe it at all. Congratulations on your optimism. And what I fear after all the information I have, but also the experience here that by force as many laws so far will be brought there at the beginning of the next year, and then a little pre-election campaign begins. And I'm afraid that this law, as well as many laws so far, will be passed by emergency procedure here when they failed to respect our amendments and arguments, not to mention the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, on Strategic Investments, and this new one, where as well, as an increase of wages to units of local self-government that are changing. They don't know what they're doing, and they're definitely showing up on the standard of human beings, all of us, and here we are on the marine good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86287	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86288	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Klaric, we know very well that this was just an excuse why not support our proposal. But they're not much of an argument. We know that none of this during this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86289	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86290	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Juričev-Martinchev, I answered the line for the introduction of a very important provision of this law which so far seems to have not been mentioned in the whole debate, and it is extremely important. In the first place, I spoke on behalf of the promoter on behalf of the club about the fact that the maritime good is of general interest to the Republic of Croatia where property and other real rights cannot be acquired on any basis other than what you pointed out and well to be mentioned in the debate, except for the buildings that were built before 15 February 1968 and which are not functionally connected to the sea. This means, therefore, that all those facilities that are built by the sea in a belt closer than 6 meters from the sea which do not serve to exploit the sea and are not functionally connected to the sea, which are primarily residential buildings, these are churches, they are hospitals, so these are buildings that do not serve the use of the sea. They are subject to the provisions of this law on the inability to acquire ownership on the maritime good. And it should be pointed out primarily because of many citizens whose facilities are by the sea, in order not to understand practically, that the adoption of such a law would practically result in the granting of housing or... Objects I mentioned earlier. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why it is very important to note. And in this part, we're different from the bill that was in the public debate. It's not good to plimise about a law that didn't come to Parliament, but what we heard and saw in the public debate of the law made by the government, the government with this new bill of law written by it wants to legalise everything that was built by 21 June... A year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not good. This is contrary to the Law on Legalisation which says that on the maritime good you cannot legalise the illegal objects that were built after 15 February... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86291	Replication response, Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86292	Well, my colleague Bačić, just the owners of these facilities, mostly the elderly, is looking for and looks forward to a new law, and it's heartless to put this back on the agenda, to delay another year when we know I can't inherit their children, I can't do anything about it. If we're going to look at those investors for marine good as someone who's going to build something on the marine good and earn, resell and so forth. But this is mostly an old, island population that can't do anything with its facilities, because it's not legally regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86293	Damir Rilje, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86294	Dear Vice President, colleague Juričev-Martinchev. Here I am not going to show myself to the part that you were telling each other when it's who and how it's about the political story, but it is. And it bothers me, because when we talk about life's problems, then we go back to politicizing, and that's not necessary. I'm just gonna go back to just the taste of the story and it's this law, you know. And among other things, you spoke here and mentioned municipal redistribution. You're going to change the story, too. Many units of local self-government that are organised will have no potential for this, but may belong to those who will. 'Cause look, my city's been cut off, they've built three municipalities and a city. I don't know, maybe everybody can if they have money, if they don't have to belong to someone and do these jobs. That would be correct. Of course, the same means must be attached. On the other hand, do you know what it meant to run a traffic service? Do you know what this redistribution will mean? So the communal director will no longer be the communal director. He'll have to be an inspector. And that's okay. Why wouldn't they have local self-government units? It's okay. And on the other hand, not getting into who he is when, how he's tied to. Nothing started yesterday. And I don't want to do anything to anyone, but if we really did have the will, then we wouldn't mention it, but we would really do a story about the development of the port area management. So to you in the Guides, and to all those who are around you and cannot have a port administration, and therefore you can do such services for them, you know what? Why wouldn't you do that? You'll understand better, because everything happens in the city or the municipality. I don't mind having some sort of spatial planning intelligence as a strategy for the county. Of course, the state certainly because there must be conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86295	Thank you very much. Replication response, Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86296	Thank you. Well, my colleague Rilje, I owe you an apology, given that you are the only one from your club so constructively involved in today's debate. As for communal order, they've already become our building inspector and they control not only illegal construction, they control noise, so it can't really be an employee of some medium professional equipment anymore. And just as the riots in the maritime good get all the applications, they don't care what they pass on to the port captain, nothing further is done, and again the criticism gets municipal redistribution and the city, or the municipality where they are located. As far as this establishment of the port administration is concerned, if such a law were passed, I believe that Vodice would be one of the cities that would very soon apply to the county council with a request to form its port administration. So this law allows it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86297	Comrade Branko Bačić, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86298	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I will conclude a few things concerning the law itself, which are highlighted in this debate as a question of the creation and writing of the law itself. So, no doubt about this Law on Maritime Goods and Seaports in one part is based on certain settings written in 2008 which were already discussed in the debate itself. However, these items taken from the 2008 Law relate to two things. The first thing is solving property-legal relations. So, I believe that this law is about resolving unsettled property-legal relations on the maritime best that has been written so far on the resolution of deliosis in property-legal relations on the maritime good. That part of the law was written by the professors of the Faculty of Law so that we would know that with a large and certain amount of respect it is necessary to appreciate exactly the transitional and final provisions relating to all outstanding property-legal relations on the ground. Well, Mr. Grbin, and at the time of conversion and privatisation, this article seems to me to be 166 in which it is precisely prescribed that the resolution of property-legislative relations refers to the whole time in which a number of dubiosiss were created on the maritime good, and in particular certain decisions made by the former assembly of municipalities under the Law on Maritime Goods and Waters, Ports and Ports of 1974. And that law that allowed the acquisition of property rights on the maritime good here is particularly isolated. Why? In view of the fact that the time of conversion and privatisation did not allow for the acquisition of ownership of maritime goods, however, the solutions to the conversion of former state-owned enterprises were granted certain rights to maritime goods which were resolved by this law in the transitional provisions. The second part of this law, which is based on the law written in 2008 is decentralisation. Only with this law did we do a small reduction in decentralisation from 2008 and it is rightly said by counterpart Klaric, that at that time the association of cities and associations of municipalities supported the law, she took a step further. And we've done a little reduction with this law in a way that we've left still the formation of port administrations at the county level and we haven't left it to cities and municipalities. Why? Because we hold that, and we expected that we might be through this debate and perhaps in the second reading we will go a step further and return to the settings of the 2008 Law, which we still hold that all cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia are not at the level of one Trogir Mr. Rilje, one Guide, I don't know Omis, let's say Korčula, I don't know Krk, Rab. Therefore, there is still a unit of local self-government which objectively neither at fiscal capacity nor at management capacity, professional capacity cannot be managed by maritime good to the end. And so it remained still at the county level, with the law allowing where there are all these potentials that I mentioned earlier that, on the basis of the request of a certain city and municipality council, the County Assembly left the establishment of the county port administrations as it was done in the Primorje-Goran County and as it was done in Istria, as it was done in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. To go to that step where there is a political interest. If there is no political interest, there is no reason to oblige a small municipality to form port administrations. And that's why we didn't go to this maximum decentralisation, but my God, we're leaving the possibility that through this debate that wasn't, or was only at the level of the HDZ club, and perhaps in the second reading that the law had passed, it could have gone to total decentralisation. But it's not a small job. Secondly, this proposal for a law in first reading is partly based on the government's proposal. We don't run away from it. In the part where he is good, and he is good at the part of the concession because he is based on the Law on concessions adopted in the Parliament. And we're not running away from the HDZ club taking over certain provisions that the government has written well. And I agree with all those who say that this law is not a matter of political bickering, this is exclusively a professional law on which a consensus should be reached. I wouldn't mind, and I probably wouldn't have a HDZ club to take over this law and go with it to another reading. So much for bickering and partying in one law that solves the most important economic resources in the Republic of Croatia, which is a maritime well-being which, apart from the land part, includes the territorial sea. This is what we forgot today, or tonight. So we're saying that this law is also taking over certain solutions that the government has put forward. However, we have taken a step further in relation to the government and in relation to this bill from..., which is that we have introduced two new, one important institute that is primarily in favour of the tourism sector, which is the introduction of concessions on demand, which will allow tourist facilities, tourist complexes, hotels, camps, etc., and also shipyards that can be managed by the maritime good foundation of the concession on demand, and this concession can belong only to them and to no one else, and this is a novelty in the legislation governing maritime well-being. And another important, new institute that wasn't even mentioned in 2008, which wasn't even mentioned in the government's request, which is that until the end, and I agree with Mr. Richembergh, we have simplified the setting of maritime goods limits. Not only do we simplify it to the end, but reduce the volume of maritime goods that we need to establish in the first place because we have said that the law, that maritime good is within the law, that where it can be seen from the air, it is a white line by the sea, as we call it..., that by a solution that is a declaratory act, it is entered in the land book and there is nothing to measure but to realize that it is a maritime good and thus we have solved it, and almost 60% of the total maritime goods in the Republic, and where certain economic activities are, in cities, in ports, in special purposes, there we will establish the border and wherever that border is less than 6 metres or more than 6 meters. So higher than what is prescribed, higher or smaller than what is prescribed by law itself. Here, I'll finish with that. So we believe that this law really respects everything that has appeared as a bad solution in the long-standing practice of implementing the existing law, to be critical of this law that was passed in 2003. Although it was passed at a time when the Croatian Parliament, called on in 1999, or 2000 to 2003, practically in the last night, and therefore the law in a number of amendments that last night, the adoption in a certain way annulled the good... which was then imagined, but still the law of 2003 on maritime good and seaports has exceptional quality solutions, in the first place, in the port sector. Well, on that trail, we estimate that this law was indeed to be left by the ruling coalition in another reading, waiting for the government to come with its own solutions, and then, in this joint debate, to accept the best of what this law offers, and what, here I hope that the government will probably by its law, so promised, be above the solutions that this law offers. At the HDZ club, we would not mind the new proposal being more quality than this and in terms of decentralisation, power and availability of resources that are being made available on the marine good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86299	Peja Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86300	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Bacic, everyone talks about what they know. I'm never going to get into things about sailing, but actually about ownership, and especially social-to-private conversion, that's what I want. Article 166 of the proposed law does not speak of ownership. He's talking about other real rights. About everything, except about the property. The moment something was converted into social capital and it was later found in the decision of the competent authority, it was ultimately a privatisation fund. On this basis, people have registered in land books as owners, and today we have a whole series of those enrolled in land books as owners of maritime goods and enrolled there on the basis of a list of real estates in conversion. The law that was passed in 2003, all the lawyers hoped to solve this issue, did not resolve it, and today we have a whole series of legal entities in the Republic of Croatia that are derived from the conversion that in their core capital have properties that they cannot own. You're here now talking about the damages. You know what damages means? Compensation of real damage and get away with it. If it survives like this and if you say it is applicable, the Republic of Croatia will have to compensate the owners of these properties for the real damage, that is, what is in the Constitution for the extradition defined as the market value of the property and that is fine, but if there is no compensation, then you have to make up for the loss of profits that I would make using that property for the next 50 years. For example. Using the port to overload the cargo. This article, if applied in the way you suggested, would lead to bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86301	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86302	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I also dropped Article 165. We at the HDZ Club argue, and knowing that through the privatisation process, the right of ownership is truly recognised to, not only... but also to the infrastructure of the maritime good, that the Republic of Croatia through the eradication of ownership rights for these companies, the companies that have passed the conversion, can pass in a way that does not need to be compensated but to extend that concession company to the maritime good until it has exhausted this investment that was recognised to it on the maritime good. Therefore, that funding from the state budget should not be allocated in order to compensate the companies that are now exempt from maritime goods but to enable the company to benefit from maritime well-being for a period of time of concession instead of 5, 25 years without paying the concession. The moment the level of concessions paid equalises with its level of investment ceases its concession and after that can receive a concession on demand but will then start to pay the concession. Thus, it should not provide additional resources to the state budget but, over a longer period of time, allow it to deplete what has been invested on maritime goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86303	Obviously, you two don't understand each other, you're talking about two different things. Damir Rilje, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86304	Dear Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you mentioned two things, one is new property law relations and mostly a large part of it solves just the units of local self-government in a large part. You also mentioned the fiscal capacity of the local self-government unit. The fact is that some units I am now not going to enter into their justification for existence because it doesn't occur to me, but if they don't have fiscal capacity I can decide, but therefore the competent neighbouring units of local self-government, which, by some inertly, has that possibility, so do services for it. And what the county does than that. And do you know that the problem of the county is precisely in terms of spatial planning and that often you can't get the status of the port and a lot of things and that these procedures are going on just because we haven't brought it down, for example? The competences of many responsibilities on city and municipal councils, even if those are fiscally... or possibly capable of performing tasks under such jurisdiction. So I don't see any problem in this matter, and I'm telling you that a lot of these and these first things I said, I'm telling you it does, provided that units of local self-government should have more jurisdiction in that sense, but of course we still have limiting factors so catastre, land and all the other things that must be involved in solving those where life is happening and where the income from which we all live is ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86305	Branko Bacic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86306	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Rilje, based on this law when we accept it. The town of Trogir, if we are going to come about the city of Trogir, is now talking about the town of Trogir can fully manage maritime well-being. How? In a way that the port area in Trogir, which is now managed by the County port administration of Split-Dalmatia County, can be established on the basis of the request of the city of Trogir, the county port administration of Trogir can be established where the county is the founder, and the town of Trogir co-founder, it writes to you in the law. And all other areas of maritime goods that are in the city of Trogir are governed by this law by the city of Trogir. Thus, the maritime good in general use which is not concentrated and which is not a port area managed by the city of Trogir. Therefore, this law allows the city of Trogir and its city council to be absolutely and clearly managed by the mayor of the sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86307	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86308	Proposal for a law on maritime good and seaports, first reading, P.Z. No. 657. The legislator is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. The proposal for a law on maritime good and seaports proposed by the HDZ Representatives Club is not adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the reports of the working bodies. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed conclusion has been accepted by 78 votes in favour, 31 against and four abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86309	We'll discuss it later: 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on State Attorney's Office, first reading, P.Z. No. 255 Proposer of the Law is the HDSSB Representatives' Club. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. Introductoryly, it will explain the law of a colleague but you are not listed as a representative of the applicant. Josip Salapic and Dinko Buric, but please welcome colleague Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86310	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. It is my great honor and pleasure to present to you the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the State Attorney's Office of January 2013, then it is submitted to the procedure. Here's my thanks to Madam Vice President for putting me on behalf of the promoter, and the circumstances have changed, and even the president of the club has changed us, and everything has happened. It is mainly a legislative initiative that we propose to limit the mandate of the main state attorney to a maximum of two consecutive mandates of 4 years. Therefore, the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia may be exposed to indirect political pressures by political authorities in the exercise of the main duty of the procedure, which is to prosecute the perpetrators of criminal offences, or to enter a position in which he cannot perform his post because of political pressures and the fact that his choice and work depend indirectly on that political elite. The restriction of the term of office of the attorney general shall, as a basis, prevent the concentration of power which is subject to pressures, day-to-day political events and procedures suggesting arbitral, selective or exceptional discretion in respect of the prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences. Moreover, limiting the mandate to a maximum of two consecutive mandates and at psychological level requires appointed persons to carry out their mandate in a manner which implies operational and unlawfully justified action deprived of political and other influences as success is observed and assessed over a clearly defined period of one and a maximum of two consecutive mandates. We think that such a solution makes sense and that it is good and for the role of chief state attorney is more or less all officials, all persons who are named or elected in the Republic of Croatia are more or less in terms of mandates than 4 years. Most of the mandates are both limited and limited in other countries. Thus, the practice has finally shown that for the quality of the work of the state's attorney and for the success of his work it is actually more than 8 years of the term of office of one state attorney. With immediate reference to the fact that we believe that a solution of two consecutive mandates is much better than possibly an 8-year term, which is also mentioned in the initiatives in this regard. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86311	Thank you very much. Does he want a representative of the board? He's gone. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Damir Cain, who he does not have, has lost his right to debate. On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists-Stranke work colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86312	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, and all in the last rows. The Croatian Labour Party will support this proposal and we agree with all these arguments brought here by reminding that it was already in the debate when the state lawyer's report said that there was just a comment on whether or not it would be necessary that what is right now on behalf of fellow Djurovic would be able to extend the mandate against what we are also against. With all of us aware that this position itself simply brings people into a position to be exposed to pressures, which is difficult to expect that someone after two mandates, or longer than two mandates, may not be able to say under a glass bell and refrain from potentially questionable, I will not say any other expression but at least questionable procedures. The latter, before the second paragraph, which becomes paragraph 3 so far, states that if the main state attorney is not re-appointed to the same duty or is resolved to continue to work as a deputy state attorney at the State Attorney's Office because, realistically speaking, these people have a situation that through consciously doing their job, the State's Attorney will surely resent and create an atmosphere that is difficult to expect some sort of care for themselves not to say incarceration that it would not be misunderstood because it is not in this context. And yet we can't let people stay on the street after that. But speaking of which, this institution of the State's Attorney's Office, I have to admit that some decisions are really questionable, so we support it, that's why we support this idea of limiting the mandate. Lately, we've been increasingly witnessing that there are some settlements that I don't know about, okay, maybe the public doesn't have to know what these deals are about, but they open up suspicion to citizens and frankly send maybe the wrong messages and even bitterness are causing. The last case that came from my midst, that's why I'm so troubled is the case of the director of the hospital in Sisak who, today, heard himself resign along the way, but watch out for a man who's under investigation and comes to a deal and is appointed as a bankruptcy director. Really, however you look at the message that's being sent to the citizens, it means some of them are highly privileged. You're under investigation for economic crime and you're named by the government as a bankruptcy manager in that same facility that you're under investigation for damageing it by 663 thousand kuna. That's why I think the HDSSB's proposal should be supported in any case and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86313	On behalf of the SDP club, colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86314	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The law in question refers to the restriction of the term of office of the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. to certain changes in the institution of the choice of that person. However, although the choice of the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia is governed by the law of the primary legal choice and the one to be led in determining how and under what conditions we can choose the main state attorney is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and this Article 125(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The provision clearly found that the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia was elected by the Parliament to a term of four years without restrictions. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, as a fundamental legal act with which all laws must be harmonised, has established that there are no restrictions on the choice of the attorney general in respect of the term of office. We can talk today about whether someone should be elected attorney general more than twice, so for 12, 16 or more years. I believe that even everyone will agree that at this point in time after the state of the State Attorney's Office has been settled, after the State's Attorney's Office has become respectable, a respected institution in Croatian society no longer needs to ensure such a long continuity. However, as I have already noted, and given the provision of Article 125(2), The Constitution, more than doubtful whether the Croatian Parliament can impose restrictions by law which are not provided for in the Constitution in this way, which is why the SDP Representatives' Club will not be able to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86315	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86316	Thank you very much. My colleague, I have just cited an example that in no case can be determined that the state of the State's attorney's office has been arranged and that it has become something that is a respectable institution for which citizens do not even show a dose of doubt. I think it's amazing that a man who was obviously in a conflict of interest with his own firm is signing a 600-dollar contract, and I don't know how many thousands of kunas, and there's no proof that this job was really done, so deal with the USOK, with the State's Attorney's office, first the government has called him insanely a bankruptcy director. Although the process is under way, he is agreeing with the DORH, resigns and returns to his doctor's post. So where else is it? Everyone else would get fired. It's certainly not something to respect, that it's respectable as an orderly institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86317	Peja Grbin, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86318	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'm obviously on my way tonight, so I'm going to... and the other one is in... Dear fellow Members, I have spoken of constitutional restrictions and constitutional foundations for the selection of a state lawyer and the regulation of Article 125(2). A constitution that says the state's attorney is elected for a term of four years. It does not say that a state lawyer is elected to a term of four that can be restored once or could not be restored or that could be restored twice. And I doubt if it's such a restriction when the constitutional creator has not put it into the Constitution we can enter into the law. Next thing you know, it's what you're saying. The issue of settlements in the State's Attorney's Office is not a question of whether the attorney general, i.e. the attorney general, will have the mandate of a year, two, four, six, how many. The issue of the settlement is the question of the Criminal Procedure Act, which we introduced into the Criminal Procedure Act, because it was necessary, because the practice showed that all the countries that introduced the settlement led through this institute to a more frequent punishment of the perpetrator of the criminal offence, while at the same time reducing the costs of conducting criminal proceedings for the system. If we have a situation where the defendant confesses to the act, that he is willing to bear responsibility, for God's sakes, is it not better to settle this in front of a state attorney where he will confess, he will get the proper sanction, than to bring it to court. And if you consider the conduct of the State's Attorney's Office illegal in this case, in law you have methods to sanction. Use them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86319	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86320	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The rest of us, this hall seems to me to be a maritime good for these medium, high and high waters. I must introduce this law to an impression from the debate on the previous law. In fact, in the Assembly, we have already been able to hear things in different arguments. Today we went one step further so we were able to hear that the law proposed by our colleagues, and we were often called by the ruling coalition not to offer our solutions, the ruling majority refuses by reason that they will wait for a better proposal that will one day be referred to by the Croatian Government in the parliamentary procedure. This is the most pathetic argument I have ever heard in support of refusing to argue or agree with the provisions of a law. Now that we've started talking about this law that's on the agenda, that I don't paint around, I thought that on behalf of the SDP, on behalf of the SDP, an interpreting article of the Constitution would say that the Constitution says that the state's attorney can only have one mandate, because that's what the Constitution says, to be appointed in time of four years. And I'm afraid by interpreting regulations like this, we can't go very far. I must also say that I congratulate my colleagues from the HDSSB who have sent this short but important law if I remember correctly in January 2013 and you have already entered the plenary session. This is because we have sent the discussion on the transport connection of the Republic of Croatia, short-circuited Pelješki bridge, even earlier and managed to reach the 58th agenda for this session. And I wonder when you already have these arguments, like, We'll wait until the government writes the law, why don't you at least let us get on the agenda a little closer to the day when we can discuss our proposals at the plenary session. But here is because of the Croatian public who, of course, is no longer watching and has no opportunity to hear us say, and this is one of the laws that opposition does while ruling travel. And instead of us being in the United States, California, to gather investors who are about to get to know the great opportunities in the Republic of Croatia that will be passed on to them by the Prime Minister, we have decided specifically to offer your calls another law on the agenda and now it is already stopped by the majority's opinion that it is counter-constitutional due to the provision of the Constitution that we had the opportunity to hear. On the other hand, there are only a few duties in the Republic of Croatia, governor of the National Bank, President of the Supreme Court, unlike others and these concrete state attorneys who have unlimited, the possibility of an unlimited number of mandates. What HDSSB colleagues have said in the light of the law, we hold that it is necessary, which is to restrict all duties due to the belief of better conduct of duty when this mandate will be firmly reduced to a maximum of two consecutive ones and when it may be at least one small element in the mosaic of the understanding of responsible duties in the country and how they behave. Because as a party, we would have reason to doubt the quality of the conduct of these duties, given the possibility of their direct influence on political flows in the country. Therefore, here is congratulating you that you are much faster on the agenda than HDZ, the HDZ Club will support your bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86321	Comrade Drazen Djurovic, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86322	Here, thank you. Also very short. So, indeed, the constitutional definition in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as counterpart Grbin said, speaks of the main state's attorney being elected for four years and nothing more. So if you really choose for four years as your colleague Mlakar said then you could say or that it's only for four years and that's it. So, if we had unconstitutional then, if we had an unconstitutional state attorney in other periods, which of course wouldn't fit. It's our opinion and our club's opinion. We have consulted, therefore, that, with the constitutional definition that the term of office of the attorney general takes four years, the addition to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, and that the same person cannot be elected as the Chief State's Attorney more than twice in parallel in any way does not encollect with the Constitution, nor does that Article of the Constitution. So if that's the only reason, then I don't think the reason really stands. And here I call on all of us as many as there are six of us, to vote this proposal on Friday or when it comes to voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86323	I think you have to count me too, I'm here. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. Congratulations to the most persistent. Tomorrow we will begin at 9.30 p.m. with a report on the work of the European Affairs Committee. And we will still be doing the Annual Report on the Agency's work on the Protection of Competition for 2013 so you can prepare yourself. Good night! Session adjourned at 21.26 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-18-0.u86324	We move on to the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. I'd beg a little more peace in the hall if I could hear what we're voting on. Thank you. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on State Attorney's Office, first reading, P.Z. No. 255. The legislator is the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the State Attorney's Office proposed by the HDSB Representatives Club for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the reports of the working bodies shall not be adopted. Please let us vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. The proposed conclusion was accepted by 79 votes to 33 against and four abstentions.
