ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83195	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. Before we get to the first point, we'll make a deal for today's work. Today we should do the first seven points, so please prepare yourself. We'll work until we've exhausted the agenda planned for today. We will start with: - Final proposal of the Law establishing an institutional framework for the implementation of European Structural and Investment Funds in the Republic of Croatia in the financial period 2014-2020, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 678. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU funds Dr. Jaksa Puljiz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83196	I thank the esteemed vice president. Honorable MPs, respected MPs. The purpose of this law is to establish an institutional framework for the use of the European Structural Investment Funds in the Republic of Croatia in the financial period 2014-2020. With this EU financial perspective, the rules on the use of European structural instruments have also changed. General rules of use... funds are prescribed by Parliament and Council Regulation No 1303/2013. The same regulation as the regulations governing the use of each individual fund are directly applicable in the Member States. However, in certain parts of that Regulation, Member States shall leave a choice relating to the detailed implementation of the system of use and control of funds that Member States may regulate in accordance with their legal practice. For example, it concerns the selection of each Member State with regard to the identification of the number of operational programmes, i.e. the number of management bodies and the number of certification bodies, as well as the establishment of the number of intermediate bodies for the implementation of individual funds or individual operational programmes on the basis of which the funds of a particular fund are used. Member States shall also leave a choice on the basis of Regulation 1303/2013 in respect of the establishment of a function so-called ‘T’. the coordination bodies as well as the selection with regard to the allocation of individual functions of each of these types of bodies. We propose to the Croatian Parliament this law, which will establish an institutional framework for the use of European Structural Investment Funds in the Republic of Croatia in the period from 2014 to 2020. The establishment of an institutional framework which constitutes one of the preconditions for the use of financial allocations allocated to the Republic of Croatia during the financial period 2014-2020. In particular, this law lays down in Article 4(1) of the Funds implemented in the Republic of Croatia, with the order of the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. In addition, the law lays down strategic and programming documents on the basis of which European funds are used, which are in Article 2(2) of the Partnership Agreement and in Article 3(3) and Article 4(2) of the Operational Programmes, respectively, in a total of 17 programmes supporting the investment objective for growth and jobs, namely the Operational Programme, Competitiveness and Cohesion, and the Operational Programme of Effective Human Potentials. Then programmes supporting the European objective, European territorial cooperation including programmes under the Union's external financial instruments. It is the following IPA Programmes of cross-border cooperation Croatia-BiH-Montenegro, IPA Programme of cross-border cooperation Croatia-Serbia, Cross-border Cooperation Programme Hungary-Croatia, Cross-Croatian Cooperation Programme of Slovenia-Croatian, Italian-Croatian Cross-border Cooperation Programme, Central Europe Transnational Cooperation Programme, Mediterranean Transnational Cooperation Programme, Danube Transnational Cooperation Programme, then the Adriatic-Ionian Programme of Trans-Ionian Cooperation, Interregional Cooperation Programme INTERREG Europe, the Inter-regional Cooperation Programme INTERACT, the URBACT programme, the EspON inter-regional cooperation programme, the Operational Programme for Fisheries, which supports the objectives of the common fisheries policy and integrated maritime policy, and the Rural Development Programme supporting the EU's rural development objectives. These are all the programs to which this law applies. You can't hear the speaker because of the technical disturbances. Therefore, the Law further lays down, in Article 5, the management and control system and the bodies which form the management and control system. They shall be set up for the purposes of implementing individual programming documents or funds to which programmes or operational programmes are co-financed. These are the following systems: the management and control system for the implementation of the operational programme of competitiveness of cohesion within which the competent managing authority, the competent authority for the verification and the competent authority for the audit is established. The management and control system for the implementation of the operational programme shall then be effective human resources, which shall be established by the competent managing authority, again by the competent authority for the assurance and again by the competent authority for the audit. Then the control system for the implementation of the IPA cross-border cooperation programme Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and the IPA cross-border cooperation programme Croatia, Serbia, which re-establishs these three bodies. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. And in the programmes in which the Republic of Croatia has taken over the management powers of the competent governing body, the convincing authority and the audit body. The management and control system for the implementation of an operational fisheries programme which also establishes these three bodies, the managing body, the certification body and the audit body. and the completion of the management and control system in the rural development programme, which shall be established by the managing body, the certifying body, the accredited paying agency and the body responsible for the accreditation of the paying agency. At the same time, the law stipulates that institutions to perform the functions of the mentioned bodies as their detailed functions will be designated by sublaws, so by regulations within 30 days of the entry into force of the law. Furthermore, the law lays down, the body of the state administration which is outside the management and control system performs the function of the so-called so-called ‘supervisory’. coordination bodies as well as functions of the coordination body itself. The coordination body shall be defined as the body of the national administration responsible for regional development and European Union funds. A legal person with public powers shall also be established who, outside all management and control systems, performs the functions of an independent audit authority and the functions of that body. Therefore, the co-ordination body mentioned and the independent audit body, bodies from earlier numbers in the management and control system, constitute an institutional system for the management and implementation of European structural instruments in the Republic of Croatia. The functions of the coordination bodies shall include roof coordination activities related to the preparation, implementation and monitoring of the implementation of all European Union funds at the level of the Partnership Agreement and including the tasks of setting up a National Coordination Committee. The National Coordination Committee shall be composed of representatives of the Authority of State Administration and legal persons with public authority involved in the implementation of all programmes. A competence which is to ensure overall coordination and monitoring of the implementation of the European Union funds and the consistency between the funds and other financial instruments of the Union and national financial instruments, as well as compliance with the financing from the European Investment Bank. Also in management and control systems for the implementation of programmes financed by the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund, the coordination body shall determine the managing body and the certification body. Before submitting the first request for inter-payment to the European Commission, the Commission shall inform the Commission thereof. For those management and control systems, the functions of an independent audit authority shall include the implementation of the conformity assessment process, the management and control system and the development of a report on the results of that system conformity assessment. Before submitting a request to the European Commission for the first time between payment and the location of ESI Funds 2014-2020. The Republic of Croatia must receive a positive assessment of the compliance of the system, management and control, etc. accreditation. In this respect, the law constitutes a legal basis for allocating functions within all management and control systems of the use of ESI funds to a particular state body, i.e. the body of a state administration. Following the law, it constitutes a legal basis for all further actions that the same authorities must carry out as a prerequisite in order to request a conformity assessment or to initiate an accreditation procedure. It is also necessary, in accordance with rule N+3 which dictates the dynamics of spending or the availability of funds from the European Funds, to adopt an appropriate legislative framework in order to allow the allocation funds to start spending as early as possible for the financial period in question. That is why it is proposed to pass laws by emergency procedure. The implementation of the law itself will not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83197	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83198	Thank you very much. Well, it's Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, just your last sentence is something that I'm actually worried about because saying that implementing this institutional framework and setting it up won't require additional funds, that it won't need additional employment, that it won't need additional technical equipment is not angry but unserious. Well, we've only been late for one software this year for five or six months. And it is not true that the Republic of Croatia has everything established that can work and that we can withdraw these funds, it is simply not true. And we're going to get a chance again to say that we don't need anything, that we have everything, that we don't need new funds, that in a very demanding business, we're going to make mistakes in the steps and we're not going to withdraw the funds. First of all, control and control systems may be the most important thing in all of this because certain institutions that intend to apply according to the European Union's means may not be taught the rules of the games that are there. One mistake in the footsteps, we saw what happened to our neighbours of the Slovenes, how much for certain projects... of state interest they had to pay back the money. Therefore, this finding in point 3 that is so easy to write does not stand. And the other thing, Madam Vice President, this is another law that does not adhere to the provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility Act where simply one such provision concerning many budgetary users, and also others, must contain some kind of fiscal effect and fiscal effect. That's what I mean by Article 5. The fiscal responsibility law. However, this government has passed a law but unfortunately does not stick to it and I am responsible for saying that if you want to withdraw the funds you will need to form new services and technically equip them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83199	The answer to the replica of Yaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83200	As far as the system is concerned, the system works and is set up for 27213. What we're doing, what we're presenting in the Parliament today, and what's going to be discussed is a 14-20 system. So this is the beginning of a formal part, and for this formal part of the establishment of the system, a number of advances have been set by a large number of state bodies and a large number of employees. So this is the process that is being worked intensively, and what comes before you is the conclusion of this process as far as the Croatian side is concerned. As far as the software itself is concerned, I won't comment much, there's been a lot of talk about it. So the European Commission had one... we had another. What is important is that no project was delayed because accreditation was not obtained in the first attempt, but what I can determine at this time that Croatia has one of the best software to monitor the management and control systems, much better than many Member States.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83201	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83202	Dear Madam Vice President, representatives of the government, gentlemen of the MPs. It's clear that this law is costing and there's no dilemma and we'll be able to do the same for the software, but I'm going to go to the law itself. When we talk about these European Structural Investment Funds, then this is about the European Regional Development Fund, the Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Maritime Fund, fisheries, the Agricultural Fund, rural development. Then the funds... or the European Structural Investment Funds are used as operational programmes of competitiveness, cohesion, effective human potential, investment for growth, jobs and what is particularly important for us because we are a country bordering several kilometers with all the countries in the environment or there is no end that does not border 50 km with a neighbouring country they are IPA programmes of cross-border cooperation Croatia-BiH, Croatia-Serbia, Slovenia-Croatia, Italy-Croatia etc. But this, too, should be said, that in the first year, it can be said that from Europe and we haven't had as much benefit as we hoped for. I clearly don't mean European MPs who spend a month on nothing so much as 30 000 euros, 300,000 kunas a year. And some of them came in with 20 thousand votes, which is a joke, but let's let it go now. Croatia certainly needs Europe, but Europe also needs Croatia. We are small, we are who we are, but from Croatia it is far more dared to say I got in these and last year and before Europe than we got from Europe. For example. who privatised our telecommunications system, banking system, tourist system, not to mention the credit or dependence of the Republic of Croatia on credit debt, that we are not talking about imports, that we are not talking about the fact that we have granted our market to their chains, etc., etc. In 2013, we paid some billions and 800 million kuna to the European Union funds last year. We threw up slightly above that money. What bothers me most is that when we talk about Europe that Croatia can withdraw by 2020, let's say, twice as much money as it will pay, but also when that happens and if that happens, our priorities will clearly determine the European Union and through those funds that come back to us, we are in some way their market. Who gives us the priorities of those billions of $800 million last year, and this year we're paying close to $4 billion. So they set out these priorities of the administrations in Brussels or Strasbourg. And in every job, 50% is goods imported from the European Union. And what are we doing? We indirectly and through such one form are shutting down our own industry. In 1980, whatever state it was but there were 700,000 people in the industry and the industry was 30% of the gross social product. Today, under 200,000 people work in the Republic of Croatia's industry and industry is somewhere 10% of the country's gross social product. It's a Croatian reality. Yes, and what has always been said since the entry into the European Union that it has cost us that roaming. What's the difference between new and old members? Europe has come to them and Europe is taking care of it and is acting under quotes. I won't say as a guest in their house, and we've entered Europe and clearly we have to follow their rules. Croatia is certainly not ideal as a country, it is not impeccable, but God forbid it is not even this Brussels administration as much as we try to glorify I do not know the same in Brussels, or Strasbourg. Far from Europe having met its goal. On their territory since '45. There's been no war for years, and that's certainly the most important thing. God forbid Croatia stayed outside the EU on the other hand. So we're all for Europe, but we're always listening to that mantra that we just have to get along with someone. But I assure you that is not how it is in the old EU member states. I don't mind that, but sometimes we should know how to stress our own policy. Croatia could theoretically count somewhere a billion euros annually. We will be paying in that period by 2020 or we will pay 50% of that amount. I said the first year we paid about a billion and eight hundred million kunas and we got back the circus slightly above these billions and eight hundred million kunas, but in a way that set priorities in Brussels or Strasbourg, and I say that we have distributed ourselves with these billions and eight hundred million kunas or this year with 4 billion to some opportunities when it comes to the Croatian economy, perhaps something different. Here's my town got about 100,000 kuna for some fitness in the open. Imagine what Europe has given us? 100,000 kunas for fitness, instead of people relaxing in the campaign. Here's what we pulled for fitness. Okay. But I think it would be far better or more desirable if 100,000 kunas were given to some little caterer or some craftsman or something else I know. Did a Kuna come from Brussels to the Republic of Croatia for the preservation of jobs. That's what interests me most. I'd even dare say that in this first year, it's not. This does not mean that if a water supply system or a disposal system is built in a city that does not employ people. But as a rule of fact, the devices are from Western Europe, the workforce is about ours. Of course, it helps to hire people, but a single kuna went directly to preserve a job I doubt. In these as many as six, seven months or as many as one kuna for the floods that were in eastern Slavonia literally Bible proportions. We didn't! Why did I mention six months? Because before that, we had similar cataclysm in the Gorski Kotar when the forest freeze occurred. I doubt we even got one kuna from Brussels to eliminate the adverse consequences of that elemental accident. I understand that Europe is not a bank of pigs. Europe is neither a supermarket, but Europe is not exactly the light at the end of the tunnel we were hoping for. For Europeans, we'll probably see that, for the other citizens. All in all, we will see how much Croatia will be able to recover in the coming period. What may be the best we could be participating about is the funds I find almost 8 billion euros meant to fight youth unemployment across the EU. This should allow unemployed people under the age of 25 to receive employment, first job or traineeship within 4 months of unemployment. I want to believe that at least these funds will be used and that they won't be the only good thing that's happened to be lower roaming.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83203	On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83204	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Deputy. After reading this law, what I first noticed is that this law is not complete until the end, i.e. that it is quite superficial which makes it questionable in some way and puts its whole meaning into question. But I'm going to try to elaborate on that, and now I'd like to do something content on the elements. So what Mr. Puliz was saying. As indicated in the proposal itself, the entry into the new financial perspective 2014/20. the possibility of using financial resources from the European Structural and Investment Funds is opened. It is, therefore, five funds, the Regional Development Fund, the Social, Cohesion, the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Regional Development. Article 2 states that documents for the use of funds are made by the Republic of Croatia and adopted by the European Commission. And this is a partnership agreement, so it sets out strategic areas of investment, priorities and mechanisms for the use of funds and operational programmes. For the programmes, the proposal says these are the documents implemented by the European Structural and Investment Funds. It's an interesting formulation, not so important, but I don't think the documents carry anything out, maybe they determine how to implement it, but I'm saying it's a detail that's not so important, but here you can think about it. Furthermore, the proposal in Article 4 states that funds are used on the basis of programmes shared in 4 groups, I am not going to list them now. Everything is mostly correct and clearly described by the proposal. However, this bill speaks of the establishment of an institutional framework for the implementation of European funds and it speaks, in fact, of what the framework does. From the coordinating authority to all bodies in the control system through all operational programmes to an independent audit body. It then defines that the coordination body will actually be responsible for regional development and fund affairs, so we are talking about the ministry, its functions are listed, and all of which are referred to in Regulation 1303 of 2013 which lays down common provisions on all those funds and which, in the assessment of the situation, states that direct application of that Regulation is not possible in certain parts. And those very parts were actually meant to be defined by this law. Furthermore, the law states that in each of these bodies, the management and control systems shall be established by the governing bodies, the convincing bodies, the audit bodies and, somewhere, the control bodies. In any case, a lot of bodies of which are the only bodies for the Ministry of Regional Development, the Agricultural Payment Agency and how to read the Audit Agency in the system of European Funds are clear and concrete to the institutions. All other bodies and their duties will be defined by government regulations within 30 days of the entry into force of this law. The law states that all these undefined bodies have an obligation to develop an organisational development strategy containing a demonstration of their administrative capacities or a simpler statement of how many people they have and how much longer they need to carry out further undefined duties, so, if necessary, the co-ordination body will send a proposal to the Government for simple terms of new employment. And that would be a summary of the proposal. Why are regulations allowed to regulate institutions in the fund management system? Except, of course, for these three we listed? Why could they not be mentioned in this proposal, what are the arguments? In this context, it is entirely illogical that the regulations are to be adopted within 30 days of the entry into force of the law, and in the law itself, to determine that these bodies also have a strategy for organisational development and administrative capacity, in accordance with the tasks which will be given to them by further indeterminate regulations. In other words, it turns out that it is the purpose of everything that the law defines how some unspecified bodies will be able to employ more people if the need for the law is not defined. However, according to one article, the authorities should already be in the public administration system because it is therefore estimated that no additional resources will be needed. And we will see that, or we will hold that government by the word that new employment, or the establishment of new bodies, will not be. The next question is why is the law passed by emergency procedure? None of the reasons for urgency, even the one who cited the deputy, should have affected the fact that this law goes according to emergency procedures. This law should have come into the procedure much earlier, so early this year, in a regular procedure so that all interested entities could be included in a timely manner, since all relevant European regulations were already published at the end of last year. Also, we expected the government with the greatest ferocity to work on doing all the jobs necessary for Croatia in 2014 as soon as possible to reach the Croatian economy. One of these jobs is to identify and define the institutions involved in fund management, but this has not proved to be correct. In this way, the urgency of the adoption is transferred to the Assembly, the declared urgency is even the opposite of the spirit and the letter of governance of European funds that require partnership and involvement of all interested in the general public debate from the one on the Ministry's website within 30 days so who sees, sees. Especially since it is content and terminology that is known as the very narrow circle of people, so experts, and much less for all interested people who want to participate and apply in EU funds. What are hundreds of millions of euros waiting for and what makes the Croatian government enter the Croatian financial system? According to the government, she is in no hurry because she has waited six months for the Parliament to propose a law that determines the affairs and competences of Croatian institutions and I say this in incomplete terms. How long will it wait for all other jobs to be done and for these funds to move towards more concrete projects, so that Croatia can start using the funding for 2014? The following years should be concluded with the European Commission, the so-called a partnership agreement and it is necessary for the European Commission to approve the programmes set out in this law. We expected Croatia to be in a group of countries that would quickly overcome this procedure because Croatia is the only country that has been in crisis for 6 years and taking advantage of this developmental chance is one of the ways out of the crisis. However, Croatia submitted its partnership agreement among the last, 22 April 2014, so the last day set by the European Commission as a possible date for the submission of the Partnership Agreement. Unlike Croatia's Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania and some other countries whose European funds have submitted their agreement at the beginning of the year as soon as possible, as soon as the financial perspective has begun. And as a result today, they have signed and approved partnership agreements and are awaiting the approval of their operational programmes. And Croatia is awaiting the approval of the partnership agreement as it turned it over among the last ones, it is likely to receive approval among the last. The operational programme Croatia has not yet submitted. It's the last day waiting again, which means it's going to be approved amongst the last. The final deadline set by the Commission itself for the approval of operational programmes is January 2015. This simply means that during this year there will be no invitation to tender for the allocation of funds from the funds reserved for Croatia in 2014, because the call for tenders is not possible before the Commission approves operational programmes. In order to be able to sign contracts, payouts need to be overcome, the European Commission must check the work of institutions that will manage European funds, i.e. The European Commission must accredit the Croatian institutions precisely on which we are today passing a law which has not yet been stated which institutions are, but we will do so with government regulations. And the Croatian government intends to ask for accreditation only in November of this year, which stands proudly on the Ministry of Regional Development's website. Which means that the start of the inflow of funds reserved for Croatia in 2014, so just over 800m euros can be expected only in the summer of next year, so somewhere at this time, a year and a half after this seven-year financial development, and if everything goes well, if there are no more significant accreditation problems than we had opportunities to see before. And here's what was said earlier, so I wouldn't say it again. The start of using EU funds for the period 2011-2020 is something that was completely under control, and is the influence of this government. So, the rapid start of using the funds is an example on which she could prove her own ability and efficiency, where no one bothered her, there no one left a bad legacy except the legacy in the form of completed membership negotiations which is why we have to do this job at all. This is, however, just a continuation of the trends we saw at the speed that began using the funds intended for Croatia in 2013, the withdrawal of these funds began only in April this year because of the reasons we mentioned earlier and we are probably the only country in the world that has such reasons that slow us down and stop us from realizing what we need so badly. The results are what we see. Major delays in creating conditions for the inflow of funds from the European Union. So not effective enough, not ambitious enough, away from what should be done for the state and the economy that has made it impossible for the long and difficult economic crisis. But the European Commission is not interested in our delays, it adheres to the rules as the deputy said M+3 which says the funds are reserved for 2014 must be spent by the end of 2017. So, everything that was booked this year and not spent until the end of 2017 will be taken away from Croatia and returned to the budget and the commission absolutely does not care when we started spending these funds, which is why we didn't start spending them on time and why we didn't spend them. So here I appeal to the government, to the ministry to do everything to avoid remaining funds that we will have to return to the budget because it is necessary for Croatia and for our economy, at all, for the development of the entire, whole country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83205	Thank you. Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83206	Thank you very much. Comrade Miles, you spoke of the urgency of passing this law. The promoter did not explain at all why the urgency of this law is neither, and in order to explain it well, it would be best if the minister were here, but he's never here. Otherwise, and any, especially the law is passed in situations where a reaction to an unknown situation is needed, or possibly when a necessary reaction to a sudden situation is needed. There's no unknown or sudden situation here. It's all been known here for a long time, but the ministry works in a dormant fashion. It is only justified that we had this law with the date of entry into the European Union and there is no reason why it is not so and that at least from 1.7 last year until today the ministry worked. And now it's three days to bring in an emergency procedure. If, here recently, the graduates had passed the prom, if it had been from politics and economics, what was the task of the Ministry of Regional Development, I am convinced that no student would possibly know the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83207	Tinker Millas, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83208	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Maric, you're right, although the deputy said one sentence about the urgency of passing the law. This law really should not have gone into an emergency procedure, although the procedure should have started long ago, it should have been regular so that all interested, therefore all those who wish to apply, who want, all interested entities who intend to participate in the withdrawal of funds from the European and Investment and Structural Funds could be included in time and that this topic that is really difficult to understand, a professional, full time that we did not have the opportunity to meet with them yesterday, or work on such topics, so that people could be helped. And the urgency of the law in this case is just being transferred to the Croatian Parliament, here it is, urgent, although I say such a peeled law will hardly contribute anything to the Croatian economy in an emergency procedure that is really going deeper and deeper and we do not know where it will end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83209	On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83210	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputies, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will therefore support the proposal of the Law establishing an institutional framework for the implementation of the European Structural and Investment Funds in the Republic of Croatia in the financial period 2014-2020. In the opening presentation of the deputies and in some discussions, a succession of this bill has already been presented. I would just like to repeat and highlight on behalf of the HNS Club that the very fact that it is brought by emergency procedure, but on the other hand, the fact that this is one, on the other hand, and a simple law which can open the question why an emergency procedure for something that is quite simple when we read it. So, for one thing, it is extremely good that the laws and other laws are simple, readable and clearly directed in that segment and implementation and certain controls. It is quite clear that it has not been stated so far, which is that this law could not have been passed last year, but because of the very procedure of implementing and delegated acts and guidelines to which the conditions of implementation of those Regulations and the functions of the body in the management and control system of use of the European Commission represent Member States only in March 2014 and adopted those in May 2014. So there are clear and thorough reasons why this law could not have been done before. It is also quite clear when discussing a partnership agreement which is not, of course, part of the debate, but is related to the law, it is clear that most of them, all EU members went with the partnership agreement in 2014 and that these procedures and the adoption of partnership agreements are individually related to each country by country, programmes and needs, as well as operational programmes which are primarily related to the adoption of the partnership agreement in that segment. Therefore, Croatia, if someone handed over in January and we in April or May partnership agreement, would not and will not be late on this issue, it must be quite clear to the public because all EU countries are in a similar or similar procedure. Also, what is crucial under this law is that he came before the Croatian Parliament in that time when he could come, when the frameworks within the EU were adopted and recommended, and what is crucial for all of us here, both Croatian citizens and the economy, given that both European funds and our EU membership are essentially social economic development, economic growth, competitiveness, higher unemployment and innovation rates, so these objectives are achieved by this law, will also be achieved through operational programmes, i.e. using funds. We're not late in that segment anyway. What is important in this first phase, how Croatia as the payer of its own, its participations in the EU budget that funds in the first years, i.e. last year and this year are in any case greater than we pay, that quality preparation of all programmes and that the tender already there are, certain advances and withdrawn, be adequate to those needs of economic development, that all institutions, and management and control bodies are set as the basis because it is not said n+3 just so that we should say by 2017, we have 3 years to withdraw from 2014. No, it is crucial that we set up quality all management and withdrawal bodies, that what has not been said so far, and we talk a lot in the debates, to ensure that the space that is connected to local self-government units, that administratively they are prepared to prepare projects, as well as to prepare them so that they can have co-financing or lending through HABOR, they can. That they can withdraw funds, that they can provide citizens with this progress or find the reason why these funds exist, and these are the same key capacities that are not defined by this law, but are essentially extremely linked to this law and are worked intensively to ensure that units of local self-government can prepare quality projects to withdraw funds from structural funds. What I would like to stress, of course, on this point, is that all bodies will be set up by regulations because it is much simpler and more pragmatic, that the situation and the moment can be adapted and improved with certain regulations if needs are observed, and that is to be taken into account in the context of control and management of all these procedures, takes account of the effectiveness of the withdrawal of funds. We have not only invested in the budget x, but we are withdrawing y, but we are withdrawing the efficiency that is related to economic development, right for employment, for the social and social progress of Croatia because when the funds are withdrawn, the projects are realised, it is extremely important that we know if we are 100, 100 kuna, 100 million withdraw funds, if through a particular project invested either in infrastructure or economic or social development, that the effect of these 100 million times is a certain coefficient. And there will be a key to the success of withdrawing funds. We can pay 4 billion kuna to the EU budget this year, withdrawing 5 billion from European funds, of course, different entities, but what is crucial after that, means other than this simple mathematics we have paid this much, we have withdrawn so much the key result of whether in 2014 the expected five billion are doing that effect that has triggered an additional economy, that there is a certain coefficient that has shown that certain consumption has increased twice, that so many and so many citizens are employed. These are segments that are much more important, although it seems that the basic thing we paid is 4 we pulled 5, but the key situation is that this efficiency of the project has a factor that multiplys usefulness for the Republic of Croatia. So two are important elements, to withdraw more funds than it is being paid, which is quite clear that it will be, and the second is that all projects that make the funds withdraw have that efficiency coefficient which strengthens the importance and role of European funds in strengthening and economic development, but what is important and social programmes. And I repeat once again, the HNS club supports this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83211	On behalf of SDP representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83212	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. To begin with, of course, it should be said that the SDP Club will support the Proposal for a Law establishing an institutional framework for the implementation of the European Structural Investment Funds in the Republic of Croatia in the financial period 2014-2020. I would say here, first of all, it is a technical law aimed at regulating those areas which, by EU regulation, have a choice in Member States with regard to entities for which they create rights and obligations or the detailed content of those rights or obligations. There is a somewhat interesting situation specific situation here to develop matter for... regulations because, of course, when EU regulations... the legal system is, as a rule, not the implementing regulations but the directives alone. Here, however, it is proposed to adopt appropriate regulations to implement an EU regulation into the Croatian legal system. This is because, as the introduction put forward, it is not possible to make more of a choice at the level of each country in relation to the institutional framework body and institutions performing the functions of the coordinating body and the independent audit authority. These are as stated by the central authorities and public authorities and I agree with a colleague from the CNS that it is good that a broader framework may be created if, during the next period or years to come, there are certain changes in the structure of the administrative bodies that this law does not have to be amended but can be applied in an appropriate manner. This is why the institutional framework for the management and implementation of the European Structural Investment Funds in the Republic of Croatia is set up during this financial period. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with points (a) and (b) of Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. In short, it is defined which bodies cover the institutional framework for the management and implementation of the European Structural Investment Funds that the coordinating body is the central authority of the state administration responsible for the tasks of regional development and EU funds and the functions it performs, so it is clearly the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, and when we talk about an independent... the Authority is talking about the Agency for the Audit of the EU Programme Implementation System of the ARPA. Furthermore, the closer bodies in the management and control system within that institutional framework for each programme supporting the objectives set out in this Act shall be determined when the management body of a programme can delegate part of its functions to one or more of the ownership bodies. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall be empowered to develop the duties of the individual bodies referred to in the article where, within the framework of a particular management and control system, the institutions carry out certain functions as set out in the law. Therefore, in order to implement this EU Regulation, the types of bodies in the institutional framework for the use of the European Structural Investment Funds must be established and this constitutes a basic prerequisite for the use of allocations allocated to the Republic of Croatia during that financial period of 6 years. Therefore, in a simple dictionary, the adoption of this law is a prerequisite for the use of funds from these funds during that subsequent period. From what is presented, we find that this law well and precisely defines all of these and establishes I would say a clear and efficient framework for the implementation of that regulation and creates preconditions for the use of EU money that is allocated in Croatia through European funds. It is clear and precise I say, but also broad enough that there will be no need to amend this law if there is any change in the system of state administration or in changes in the bodies responsible for the implementation of these objectives and programmes if there is a need. Therefore, we at the SDP club support the adoption of this law as well as its adoption by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83213	On behalf of the Club of Representatives DC-New Wave and Natalija Martinčević, a colleague of Vesna Škara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83214	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Your Honor, Your Honor, By entering the new financial perspective of the European Union for the period 2014-2020 The Republic of Croatia shall open up the possibility of the use of financial resources from the European Structural and Investment Funds and in accordance with Regulation No. 1303 of the '13th European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 Croatia will therefore be available for about 11.7 billion euros from the European Union's Regional Development Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the Common Agricultural Policy Funds in a 7-year period. Given our economic crisis, the amount of grants can indeed be considered rather high. However, a legitimate question arises whether Croatia, units of local self-government, natural, legal person or domestic enterprises will have enough power to withdraw and enough capacity to withdraw these funds. Let us remember that when we join the European Union, we are one of the main political mantras that we all said that one euro paid into the European bank would pull three back from it. But now we've come to a situation that wishes and reality don't always go in the same direction. To turn our desires into reality, we need good organization and an extremely great ability to withdraw funds. However, the government recently announced that it intends to target most European funds towards improving transport infrastructure primarily for the renovation of rail infrastructure, a waste management system. This publication could practically mean the government's definitive commitment to continue to encourage investment in large infrastructure projects and, apparently, to invest in that part of the thought alone until in some other parts obviously not. Well, that definitely won't have that economic impact and economic growth and employment that we could expect. Namely, I'll point to one illogicality here. Although the number of funds withdrawn from European funds is growing at the same time, unemployment in Croatia is growing. So the more money we withdraw from European funds, the more unemployment and less money in the state budget. How is that possible? So it's obvious that the funds we get don't invest in production, they don't invest in opening new jobs. Looking at these 10 projects that have so far drawn the most money from the EU's accession funds, it is clear that these projects have not contributed to the competitiveness of our economy or to the creation of new jobs. Therefore, these problems of the Croatian economy, the high level of public and private debt, are indeed a major obstacle to economic recovery and in the structure of the domestic economy are simply lacking those small and medium-sized private enterprises that would base their business on innovation, human capital and modern production information technologies that would be competitive on the international market. So far, economic policies and the overall economic model have not been focused on the development of this sector, and in recent years life for such businesses has been almost unbearable. And it is precisely the availability for Croatian European funds that could be a great opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises that could launch investment cycles and create new jobs in the short term and thousands of new jobs. Our club's position is that unless the government encourages private companies in those sectors where Croatia has certain comparative advantages that we will not benefit from these structural funds and that our economic crisis will continue to continue. The countries when we compare our neighbouring countries or countries that have recently entered, which have entered the European Union before us, can then be seen that in the last seven-year period, a package of subsidies from the European, Structural and Cohesion Funds amounting to as much as 208 billion euros was available to those countries. The team, too, can be seen that the most funds from the European Funds practically pulled the Baltic countries, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Poland and very low levels of fund absorption had Bulgaria and Romania and Slovenia. Experiences from new Member States of the European Union in the use of EU funds are different. However, three key levers of successful use of the funds available to these countries are recognised, which is clearly defined by the Government's industrial policy, the developed institutional framework and the determination to use funds through market-based asset-location instruments. Furthermore, what we want to warn you about here when this bill is passed is the weak preparation of state bureaucracy and the lack of information of potential users of the funds that will be available to them. About 1,000 people work in Croatia to prepare projects in the public sector, perhaps a little more or less who can write projects. But a good part of these projects written by public sector employees is pretty bad. Therefore, in this area we need to work seriously because practically Croatia currently looks like a steam locomotive, it is still heating up on movements towards European funds. We witnessed some kind of waste project. We remember that Minister Grcic also announced that there are over 200 projects worth more than 20 billion kuna to be financed from structural funds in the portfolio. It's about 1/3 of the money available to us over the next seven years, so the question is where are these projects, where they can be seen, what are these projects? It was logical for the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds to publish them, but this obviously did not happen. So what we particularly want to draw attention to is that Croatia, and I especially think about local and regional self-government units, must bring a clear strategy in which they want to develop. Unfortunately, this is still a problem and this is still not clear and unambiguously visible because without a clear strategy it will be difficult to withdraw funds. There are a number of problems still in place when you get some funds or when you have the potential to get some funds there are serious problems that are related to the lack of structural reforms or the lack of structural reforms in our country. Thus, with the withdrawal of funds, the application of projects must go far faster in the dynamics of structural reforms in Croatia. Because you're worth being a great economic potential, looking for certain or applying for specific projects in your area if you, for example, you can't offer a property paper for the reason that the renovation of land books lasts for 10 years and is not finished yet. So your deadlines are going down, your project is going down, your development is going down just because Croatia has not implemented its structural reform in the field of land books. That's what I think Mr. Jaksha Puljiz knows very well, and he's very well aware. In this area, too, we need to work really quickly if the means of quality are to be withdrawn. So 7 years of great opportunities and great opportunities are ahead of us, the question is how we will make use of it, and indeed our club will support this bill, but also ask that every 6 months this Parliament is informed in which direction they are retreating and withdrawing and at what speed they are withdrawing funds from European funds and where the problems are in withdrawal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83215	Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83216	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in your speech, you pointed out that one of the indicators is that not enough funds are being used to increase the number of unemployed. Although the number of unemployed truths is high, it seems, however, that there is no growth of the unemployed in the last observed period, but rather on the contrary. The last 4 months unemployment has reduced the truth at the seasonal level by 80,000 people, but it is still for 20,000 people more than last year, and 30,000 more than before. The number of legal persons employed has increased by 22,500 people this year. Furthermore, it should be said that when the period of 2.5 years ago was observed that at the start of the government's mandate there were 315 000 unemployed and a month after the start of the 340 000 unemployed. One and the other numbers are higher than the current number of unemployed. And as for your observations on the fact that local self-government units may be unprepared or entrepreneurs unprepared and that they will not be able to adequately participate in competitions for European funds, it should be said that there are a number of private advisory agencies that will provide services and which will be charged from the European Union's funds. And it is also a fact that many units of local self-government do not take advantage of funds, although they have great resources and great opportunities. For example. The city of Zagreb has only 20-30 million used funds from the European Union funds, and there are numerous projects such as the Sesvema sewer project or the waste burning plant that were born to exploit funds from the European Union. So it's a lot of things, and leadership, and talent, and visions of people who should start these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83217	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83218	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, as he approaches the end of the term of office, you will more and more highlight the numbers and statistical indicators of the number of employees or unemployed. I just pointed to one absurdity. So far, the money Croatia has withdrawn from the European funds has shown that there is no echo or reflection on the number of unemployed in Croatia. As we withdrew funds and received more money, so the number of unemployed grew. I asked the question, and where did the money go? So they didn't go to the job opening, they didn't go to a job reduction. That's the problem, and I pointed that out. As for the ability to withdraw funds from local administration and self-government units, that's the problem, so that's exactly what I'm talking about. So it's not enough to train employees or units of local self-government not often able, and they don't even have the means to train, now I'm not talking about the City of Zagreb, I'm talking about some smaller environments, to train my employees to withdraw money, write projects and withdraw money. It's a long trip, and we don't have time because unfortunately we haven't prepared ourselves in that previous period, and now we're practically opening up the possibility of applying to funds. Most likely, during this period of the first year, we will spend time on the method of trying and making mistakes, which is unfortunately very bad, and we are alone because we have not prepared enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83219	We move on to an individual debate, colleague Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83220	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor. So here's something I want to say about this Law on an institutional framework for the implementation of EU funds. I want to speak from the perspective of an ordinary citizen in their sights because when we talk about EU funds, I think that Croatian citizens always feel the story that the leaders of the government are always spinning, which is ahead of us some five billion euros, some seven years, and we should get that money and all of us will be better when we get that money and in our own way we will somehow live better because it was also the reason why we joined the EU. And then from that perspective comes this law that we have already found to be incomplete today, and secondly, they try to convince us that it's not too late, and the seventh month, and the perspective started in 2014 I think from 1.12014, and it takes us seven months just to determine through some institution's law, and then we're waiting for a partnership agreement to approve us and the operational programs so we'll catch what it says on the website of the Ministry of Regional Development and the 12th month. and perhaps it is right then that this law should not provide for financial resources which would then cost that would require the cost of this law. Because we won't do anything about EU funds in 2014. It is lost to us because the story is constantly here hundreds of millions of euros, 800m euros waiting, but it is not possible to enter our financial circulation, the financial system of the Republic of Croatia because the government is simply not in a hurry. So why wait six months for the bill? Don't you think we're a little late? Because we all know that besides this, we need to make a deal with the commission and the partnership agreement. I said we need to be approved by the operational programs that are listed in this law. And we expected to be in that group of countries because we're the most interested, we're in recession for six years, we need some free money, some extra money compared to what we pay to create such a surplus. I expected that we would be in a group of countries I did not know with Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Slovenia, which had submitted their request already in the first month because they were ready, they knew what was waiting for them. They didn't wait six months or seven to start talking about it. Have their demands been granted? They did. When he'll be ours, does anyone know? I don't think he knows. Their partnership agreements are approved, and we'll wait. We haven't even given up the operational agreements yet. And to say that, we submitted our request for a partnership agreement the last day that was set on 22 April 2014, the last day. For what? I guess we didn't make it. It was a lot of work, then we were dealing with maybe that famous software, it was supposed to sort of balance bad relations from 2013. Here these days, this story about EU funds in Croatia has been reduced to some pluses compared to what we paid for and gloriously for 2013 we are 20 million euros, 139 million kuna in plus. So imagine in 2014 being 20 million euros, so that saves us, that brings us out of this recession under such a solution. And what we're missing doesn't matter because it's late. We are late because I don't know why the EU we dreamed about is constantly experiencing itself from the perspective of an ordinary man in one wrong way. What has happened to us over the past year since we joined the EU? 35,000 jobs have gone missing, people receiving, have we felt not all of them in the Republic of Croatia that this entry into the EU is what it offers us is security, peace, the market, that it has brought us into our own pockets a little more money? No, it either stagnates or it's even less. The only thing that grows is the number of executions and the public debt of the Republic of Croatia that flies into the sky. Is our credit rating better? It's not. What did the citizens of the EU expect? They expected that at least here they would have cheaper interest when they were already raising loans to raise them on at least similar or equal terms that they have in the same banks in EU countries. It's not that. What did we get? Excessive deficit procedure. And then the minister, the vice-president of the government, says that there is no EU, would grow GDP, there. And in this and such atmosphere, we celebrated the 1.7th and the entry of a year of EU entry and then the story is moving that awaits us all in the next six years because we should always leave the citizens to hope that it will be better and that something will happen at least if not only of ourselves, because if we know that the 2014 funding can be used by 2017, are we with this delay of this law and the behaviour of the Ministry of Regional Development which is late and in other procedures, those N+3 reduced to N+2 is what we should have done in 2014. That's what it looks like to me, and I don't think it's a good idea for it to get in this easily, so it's going to happen a little bit with the whole EU fund story. Where are those people who've been dealing with it, are they even there at their jobs, or have they all had their share of private water and now they're selling the knowledge they've acquired in the state administration, and have those new ones that have entered been properly replaced? Unfortunately, we do not see it except that we are listening to stories that we are constantly getting here through reports on the use of European funds, etc. And then we boast. We're better than the ones before, because we don't know how to make 100 million more than those before, no matter what the preparation. And now, I don't know where those stories will take us. We have made our fundamental shortcomings on this law. I believe that he is very late and that the Ministry of Regional Development did not justify that function, given that he is almost late in every step, and show that other countries' experience is possible before those who are interested and want to benefit from this possibility. Unfortunately, in this way, I say when we are only seven months away, we are passing a law on what are the institutions that will deal with EU funds. I'm saying, the last day we're handing over the partnership agreement, we haven't given up any operational programmes yet. The question is when are we going to catch the first euro in 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83221	Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83222	Thank you. Here's a respected colleague, an unlisted observer from your debate, who could conclude that now because we're passing this law today, that we won't be able to withdraw the funds, or that we're not getting any funding in 2014. This year we're in plus 740 million kuna. That should be made clear. So this year the funds are coming in. As of 1.1, the funds agreed and implemented, agreed in previous years and implemented in this year, are coming in. So you mentioned yourself we have this N+3 rule, so the projects are being prepared. There are no obstacles to not preparing projects for 2014, and therefore this is a prerequisite for using funds over the next six years. So, you said in 2014, that these 120 and something million kuna were withdrawn. So that's plus from 2013. This year will be far, far larger plus as regards this net effect, i.e. invested and received from EU funds. So this year we're already in plus over 740 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83223	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83224	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Pandek, I don't think you've been listening to me very well. I think I've got it all right and I said we're boasting about it, let's say these 20 million euros that's plus compared to 2013. But I'm saying, the story of EU funds, an interesting story to everyone because there's a lot to talk about, and unfortunately those who need to feel the benefit of it all don't have it too much and it's being noticed. So you can tell us as much as you want to have you withdraw this much money, that much money. Because of all the numbers, huge funds, powerful programs, no one knows alive what's going on inside or how much of it is being pulled out, and especially not just a small citizen. That's why I was a little critical, because they show experience and other countries that have joined the EU before us and we have been in the same time in the European Union together with them. So we had some time behind us, too, that we were late with the law, that we were late with the partnership agreement, that we gave it the last day. Okay. We may not be as late as the others, but the fact is that they're doing a much faster formal part of the institutional part while we're late. Now, if that's okay with you. who forbids you from doing so. We claim that it is not good and that it is not for the benefit of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83225	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83226	Thank you very much. A colleague, Boric, one of the most common reasons in the government's view and their explanation of why the deficit of the state budget last year increased by over 60%, why the deficit of the state budget this year is as large and why... is Croatia's EU membership. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We had to pay the membership. In no explanation, nor macroeconomic projections, nor did you see a single letter saying that the individual position of the spending party was reduced because Croatia took advantage of the possibility and withdrew funds from both structural and cohesion funds. You couldn't see that. And why couldn't you have seen it? Well, it's because this law was supposed to be under discussion maybe in the first month, maybe in the 12th month. Because watch what Croatia has today? Another big reason why the budget in the problems is the withdrawal of VAT collection, because now Croatia has a second move. There is a withdrawal from VAT collection which definitely, although we warned them that it would cost about a billion kunas, 2 billion kunas, now we have a withdrawal of funds from the EU funds. So, what we should have withdrawn, which we should withdraw in 2014 may happen in 2015, perhaps never and this distance can be terribly expensive. Therefore, Croatia as a new EU member with good experience from pre-accession funds because the use of pre-accession funds was over 90% of the day, the concept of pre-accession funds and structural and cohesion funds has been marred. Let's split it up, so let's see how successfully this government has withdrawn these funds from the EU funds. Until the moment in the Croatian Waters Financial Plan, while in the Annual Report of the Croatian Railways, we do not see that much of the expenditure so far financed from the state budget and from the revenues of these institutions is financed from EU funds until then Croatia will have problems with the excessive deficit. Therefore, Croatia's membership in the EU must also be seen in the financial plans of non-financial users, in the financial plans of public enterprises must be seen on the spending side of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83227	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83228	Comrade Shucker, I agree with everything you've said. But you didn't say what was most important and what was used by this government. So, anything we miss through the EU funds can be compensated by a credit debt. So you go somewhere, I don't know America, you take 2 billion euros, you want the kuna right when you have to, and you make up for everything you've missed through the EU funds. So we have the biggest debt growth in the last two and a half years since this government is in Croatia. So we're growing at a rate of nearly 30 billion a year in external debt. And now why would we need these European funds? Well, it's a complicated procedure. And when you ask the mayors, the mayors what they have from the European funds, ask them, they're the right thing to do. What is the communication with the Ministry of Regional Affairs? What are the competitions? Can they come in at all? Why is everything late, why doesn't anyone ask them anything? What are any communication in all directions in order to have any important relations within these funds and the use of these funds? You have a wall of silence. You have a website so you choose to inform yourself and engage those private consultants and all you need to consult to get here says a colleague from Istria 100 thousand kuna for external fitness, for example. Now, that's what we've brought down the story of European funds, and they're much more valuable than that, and they can compensate for these deficits if we're capable and if we want to do something, and in particular they can run a construction operation. However, this has not happened a year since EU accession. And it's somebody else's fault again. But I'm saying, it's going to show time who's telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83229	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83230	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you've made a good point, you've got the impression that, here's a bunch of money, and now you're very welcome, take it from that pile as much as you want, and there's the story over. But when it comes to realisation and what you've made very clear is how small it is and how little it's realized. I especially care about how many times it's been said here in this High House how many opportunities there are in agriculture. 380m euros of direct payments, 330m for rural development, and here under the end of the year are expected first competitions from rural development measures. But as far as speed is concerned, here last week we had a thematic session in some way of the Committee on Agriculture where there was talk of support in agriculture. Today it is July 8th, and by 1,08th, it must be handed over to the European Commission in order to know what the rules of the game are and how to implement it. So is this a serious approach to such a serious thing? It still shrinks there, in that part it tried to reduce but thank God that it was understood that the 50 million euros simply did not fall because it would be deadly, simply deadly and unbearable. And if the farm sinks it, it's gone down already. The only drug there, the diagnosis is clear, is the only cure to try to get something out of this area and do something, and now it's July 8th, and by August 1st, this job has to be done. Well, that's inadmissible and simply irresponsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83231	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83232	Thank you very much. Our colleague Milinkovic recently, last week we had a debate on the implementation of the 2013 budget and what do we have to see in this execution? That the Ministry of Regional Development after 2 rebalancing, after losing first funds for the management of the exiles, means where a new office was founded, so after he was twice reduced in the end or what was twice reduced was not realised in full amount but of 675 million was spent 600, and 75 million was left to the Ministry of Finance to dispose of them. And how to connect it to the practice that the Ministry of Regional Development should have, as far as all users and those involved in agriculture, livestock, etc. are concerned.? Since I joined the EU, I said we lost over a thousand dairy farms. How do you even make up for it in this country using these funds? No one has a solution. Well, here you go. You're on your own. If you need to ask someone and ask them again, you're on your own, and there's no clear instructions. And we talk all the time about that number that's spinning, 5 billion euros by 2020. And everyone expects it to come somehow, I guess. But unfortunately, they won't do it by themselves. And that is why we claim to be late, that we are the last person to hand over the partnership agreement, that the operational programmes are not even close at all, that we are, among the latter, creating an institutional framework and that we are obviously not interested in this topic the way a country wants to use it. It means to be quick, to be in front of everyone because she needs it so much. Unfortunately, we see that it goes differently and there's always time. And it could always be some kind of software that didn't happen, right? I think that's clear to everyone. Who's to blame? And there can always be software, at least that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83233	And Josip Djakic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83234	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's my colleague, Boric, you well defined that this law was supposed to be in the debate long ago, at least in the 9th month of last year, so that in autumn time it could be brought and applied throughout the year, especially in this 2014 as a use and as an application of already completed projects. I agree that most of the projects stand because they did not respond in time. There is a project here and there to be summed up and turned back, but of those hundreds that exist in local environments and in regional self-government there are few who have come to life because there are not enough professional and quality personnel in the ministry. Does he get software or not? This is a difficult issue that will certainly take us back for a year and will not allow applications to happen, that projects are launched and that the GDP is stabilised or even going to plus. So these are all the things that are for the simple reasons of human trafficking in the ministries of professional and quality people, bringing those as paratroopers who went down without knowing where they came from or what they should do. And so when they learners have come to what they really are and what their function is here a year is lost, a year we'll have less and we'll probably never live to make the most of what we should have and who we could have. The law must be passed, yes, but he was only a year late.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83235	Josip Boric, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83236	Thank you very much. Col. Djakić, perhaps 9 months last year is too soon but the EU regulation was known at the end of 2013 and nothing prevented us, although many knowledge is known and a year before the end of 2013, but if we had given it in the 1st month, that we were faster than some others would probably have already had in hand certain documents and certain approvals so that we could use what is available to us. But I'm saying, it's not that important to this government because there's always some reason why someone's guilty. So when I say GDP falls then the Deputy Prime Minister, otherwise the Minister of Regional Development says it's the European Union's fault because he wants us to cut the deficit, you understand? Then when we did not withdraw funds in time for 2013, because we were late in everything, we were surprised by the entry into the European Union, he surprised us even though he was in the middle of the year, and by the end of the year we disagreed somehow, so we were surprised by the software, but at one point for software or for certain accreditations of that software we failed to say to pull out in time, what we were meant for 2013. Now, we pulled that off in 2014 so now we hear it's a big surplus compared to the contracts, I guess, before, because we don't really get what's going on here. I think the whole story, the whole story about EU funds needs to be demystified, that the government needs to be simpler towards users, that it needs to give them some information in time and that unfortunately, as soon as possible, it needs to put together a complete infrastructure so that we can use it properly, not to drag ourselves out of the month to month and wait for what the next European Commission or the Union will tell us that we are not doing well, so that we are repairing and losing enormous resources and energy as we deal with such problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83237	Lastly, on behalf of the proposer, Deputy Minister Dr. Jaksha Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83238	Thank you. Here, just a few words. We ended up discussing technical and... There has been this broad debate on the use of EU funds, which is more appropriate for agenda points such as the report on the use of funds that we submit every 6 months to this high body and when we look forward to this parliamentary debate, and the comments and proposals of parliamentary representatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law is really very simple, very short and someone mentioned very precise. It is because the Croatian government has been waiting to complete a full debate on legislation, a legislative framework at EU level. And you heard very well today when that debate was over and I think I really need to stick to the facts in every debate and in this one, that debate ended in May 2014. Years. In May 2014, the last acts, so-called delegated acts, about like our sublegal acts which specify the provisions relating to the work of the body in the management and control system. And we have been waiting for these last acts to go out with laws that will then be fully concise, which will be made quite clear and that we do not need to come back to the Croatian Assembly in some short time with amendments and additions to that law. So that there is no delay, absolutely the Croatian government reacted as much as possible in view of the conclusion of the debate on the legislative framework at EU level. As such, the law is one, only one segment, one part of this total in terms of the use of EU funds, it gives the Croatian government the opportunity to continue to work on determining the responsibilities and functions of individual state bodies. Of course, it is already known what state bodies will be in charge of, and through the very regulations it will be confirmed. Croatia is in a specific position, let us never forget that when we talk about European funds. Croatia is the first year of membership in 2014, so it is like Bulgaria and Romania in 2008, it is like Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia in 2005. The difference between Poland in 2005 and Croatia 2014 is huge because in the meantime the system, the complete management system and the use of the European Funds are much more complex, much more complex. Some of the rules that were valid in 2004, 2005, are not valid today, are much stricter than they were then. In this respect, Croatia certainly does the best it can, Croatia will certainly not be in the category of those member states that are often mentioned as less successful member states, but let us never forget that the use of EU funds is a long-term process and that it will take us years and years to reach that level... capacity and what we are talking about today, the efficiency of the use of EU funds as we now wish. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It doesn't exist overnight, pre-accession funds were a completely different level of use of structural instruments, now we have something completely different, completely different both in terms of use and in terms of the volume available. But what you've had a chance to hear and discuss today, and hopefully you will and will support it is one step on that entire road, one piece of mosaic that is slowly closing, and this year you will already see the first results. The first competition will not take place in 2015, the first competition will take place in 2014. For all those who want to know what these projects are, which are tenders, you have two government decisions, one adopted in 2013, 13.6., setting deadlines for implementation, preparation and implementation of tenders so-called a grand scheme and individual large infrastructure projects, and you have a decision of June, 8.6.4. where the deadlines for preparation and implementation for the new project group relating to the 2014-20 perspective are also established. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83239	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83240	Dear colleagues and respected fellow MPs, we finished on time last night, so we can start on time this morning. We begin of course by voting on the points of the agenda, materials, bill proposals and other acts. Can we check the quorum? How's the quorum situation? We can go. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let's get this straight. Final draft law establishing an institutional framework for the implementation of the European Structural and Investment Funds in the Republic of Croatia in the financial period from 2014/20. years, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 678. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the representative of the Commissioner-in-Office, Mr Jakshu Puliz, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and European Funds, to show about the amendment of the Committee on Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83241	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83242	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please let us plead with your hand. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most of the votes are 85 for, 14 votes against and 2 abstentions are passed by P.Z. No. In 678, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the adopted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83243	We move on to: - Final proposal of the Act amending the Law on Medicinal Products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 679. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Emergency Procedure shall unite the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received their reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by the Minister of Health, Privileges Sinisha Varga. Here you go, Minister. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83244	Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, MPs and MPs, I thank you for the opportunity to speak for the first time after this speaker. Here, I'll present you with a proposal to amend and supplement the Drug Act. Since 01.07.2013, therefore, on the day of the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia, all approvals for the placing on the EU of medicinal products authorised in a centralised procedure by the European Commission have become automatically valid in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of 02.07.2013 adopted a solution to the abolition of all national authorisations for the placing on the market of medicinal products authorised in the EU in a centralised procedure. Following this, Croatian legal persons, the presidents of the drug manufacturer ceased to be authorisation holders for all medicinal products authorised in the EU in a centralised procedure on 02.07.2013 and the new marketing authorisation holders became foreign producers associated with foreign producers of these medicinal products. Article 234, paragraph 1 of the applicable Medicinal Products Act, provides that on the date of entry into force of this Act, the Agency will initiate the procedure for the withdrawal of the marketing authorisation of medicinal products on the basis of the Act on Medicinal Products approved in the EU by a centralised procedure while paragraph 2 of that Article provides that the batch of that medicinal product is to be manufactured in accordance with the marketing authorisation given before the entry into force of this Act may enter and be placed on the market in the Republic of Croatia until the expiry of the period of validity or for a maximum period of 12 months from the date of entry into force of this Act. This legislative proposal proposes to ensure the proper and continuous supply of Croatian medicinal products and to prevent the shortage of medicinal products, as amended by Article 234(2) of the Medicinal Products Act. Given that the data obtained from the marketing authorisation holder of those medicinal products are still available, there are still significant quantities of these medicinal products which are manufactured and equipped in accordance with the national marketing authorisation of this legislative proposal to ensure the supply of the Croatian market for the necessary medicinal products for the treatment of severe diseases, that those medicinal products may be on the market in the Republic of Croatia until the expiry of those medicinal products, i.e. until 01 July 2015. For the purpose of removing the risk of shortages of medicinal products for the treatment of severe diseases on the market, as well as ensuring availability of the necessary medicinal products to patients and ensuring adequate and continuous supply of Croatian medicinal products, in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are proposed to pass this law by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83245	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83246	... We have another law that does not explain in accordance with the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, I ask the Minister what is the debt for HZZO medicines in the Republic of Croatia on 01.07.2014? [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83247	How would you like to respond? The Minister of Health's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83248	Since it is not the subject of this law, if you wish, I can give you a written reply to the exact debt with the date you requested. ... It's written down the way. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Croatian, it's not my native language, I grew up in Canada, so here and there I'll say a grammatical mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83249	Thank you very much. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83250	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Minister... What? Vice President. [[Intruder: Vice President.]] Mr. Minister, and welcome. So, as Croatia enters the EU when we look at the Drug Act, it is, we have also taken over the directives and regulations of the Council, the European Parliament, the European Commission, which concerns medicines for human use. I must stress here that the Union is otherwise always in favour of universal availability of health care and health insurance, and when we look in the field of health care, it is then relevant for public health, while all that concerns the protection and improvement of human health, of course, is a competent Member State, which means that we always have the right to decide independently in the health care system. Under the Act on Medicinal Products for Transport, only the medicinal product which has been authorised to be placed on the market or which is authorised for parallel imports or for parallel marketing. The concept of centralised procedure, drug assessments was also mentioned, was carried out by the European Commission for Medicinal Products, and this procedure is only for certain medicinal products, those that are for the treatment of diabetes, cancer, neurodegerative diseases,... diseases, HIV and for medicinal products obtained by biotechnology. On behalf of the SDP club, we support the amendments to the Law on Medicinal Products with the final draft law precisely because of the need to eliminate the risk of drug shortages, to treat these serious diseases, as well as to ensure the availability of the necessary medicines. We also support the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. When you look at the situation, it is only after the approval of the harmonised, requested EU packaging by the European Commission that the production of new batches of medicines that have been approved by a precisely centralised procedure and which are intended to be placed on the market on the Croatian market can be launched. Since most of the medicines are not actually in line with the packaging of medicines and documentation in the Croatian language, it has not actually started producing new batches for the Croatian market, and that there are significant quantities of these medicines that have been produced and are also equipped in accordance with the national plan for placing on the market, that is why these changes have actually been accessed. This legislative proposal regulates this change with a view to ensuring the supply of the Croatian market of the necessary medicines for the treatment of serious diseases. The amendments that have been made relate only to one article and this Article 234. So for another time on behalf of the SDP, we support these changes precisely because of the availability of the necessary medicines, i.e. appropriate and uninterrupted supplies on our market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83251	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83252	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support this law because now, in these circumstances, when waiting lists are so long, so large, when doctors leave us and now there is still a shortage of medicines, a defect as is said, and such significant medicines as she said and said about it by a colleague of Šimac-Bonačić, anti-diabetes medicines, cancer, HIV, immune and viral diseases, this would indeed cause unspeakable consequences. And we know that medicines are of particular importance in the protection of health and health care. So let's say a few words about medications. According to the Medicinal Products Act, any substance or combination of substances is shown with the properties of treatment or disease prevention in humans or any substance or combination of substances that can be used or used in humans for the purpose of restoring, correcting or adapting physiological functions to pharmacological, immunological or metabolic activity or with a medical diagnosis. So the definition itself says a lot about what width and what area it's about. And the substance can therefore be of human origin, i.e. Human blood, human blood product, animal origin, animal microorganisms, parts of the organ, animal toxins, extracts from blood. For example, plant origin. microorganisms of plants, plant parts, plant secretions, plant extract. And chemical origin, for example. chemical elements, chemical substances of natural origin and chemical products obtained by synthesis. So both the definition and what I have cited is how important and wide the area is and of course it is and it is certain that both harmful and adverse reactions are not so rare and it is necessary to have it under legal control. And there's the 2013 law. The Law on Medicinal Products, which applied almost all the directives that were important at that time, regulates all these areas from marketing, production, labelling, pharmacovigilance, quality checks, but also an important area of supply to the Croatian market for medicinal products. And this is precisely the subject of this amendment in order not to come, so it is undeniable that continued supply of Croatian drug markets is needed. And as we have heard from this law now, on 1 July 2014, there would simply be a interruption in supplying such important medicines as these. And in this sense, it is going to this change, this Article 234 which is very short, is very small but very important, so that all of those medicines, because we must also indicate that medicines are being obtained and put into use by us which have the Agency’s approval, but also by this centralised procedure within the EU, are important and simply they would have to be out of use, and in order to have a major disturbance on the market of medicines and, of course, the resulting and availability of healthcare in this respect is going to go into this change which will result in the expiry of the supplies of medicines that have been put on our market or by 1 July 2015 simply to prevent this major problem in some way. And until then, we believe that simply these packages and these moments that are indicated will be harmonised so that those carriers who put these medicines into use can be found. And in that sense, we will wait for it to happen, and the market not to lose its drugs, we, in that sense, are in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83253	Thank you very much. Do you want to say final, Minister? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83254	Final bill amending the Law on Medicinal Products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 679. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 101 votes, seven abstentions, six abstentions, I apologize. 6 abstentions passed by Law P.Z. No. In 679, in the text proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83255	- Final proposal of the Provisional Maintenance Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 656. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received reports at the session. Introduction will explain the proposal of the Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs. Maja Sporish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83256	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. For the first time, the proposed Act on Temporary Restraint is governed by the entire private regulation by the area of temporary child restraint, as the Institute for the Protection of Child's Legal Rights for Maintenance in accordance with modern European legislative practice. Subject matter is currently regulated in several articles of the current Family Law. In view of the indeterminate nature of those provisions, insufficiently clearly defined assumptions for the exercise of the right to temporary detention, unclear provisions on the duration and height of that right, and an insufficiently defined recovery procedure by the abstention obligor has been approached by the making of a completely new law which will regulate that area in detail. The proposed law regulates the Institute of Temporary Restraint more systematically, more clearly and fully, while respecting the problems that have arisen in practice in the application of the Institute. The non-determination of the provisions which determine temporary abstention in the current Family Law has enabled the manipulation by the abstention officers who, in part, have been able to deny the child the right to temporary detention by partial payments of only several kunas. In that case, the child was forced to wait again for a period of time determined by law to request temporary restraint again. The law that lies before you will prevent these manipulations. In accordance with this law, a child is granted the right to temporary restraint and, in part, to pay the maintenance or maintenance obligation, he will no longer be able to prevent a child from exercising his right to temporary restraint through one partial payment of restraint. The law also shortens the time limit which must elapse from the decision of power to abstain until the application for temporary abstention is made from 7 months to 3 months, with the mandatory initiation of the executive procedure. Furthermore, this law addresses another burning problem related to the Institute of Temporary Restraint, the inability to repay paid funds to the state budget. In accordance with the applicable Family Law, after the centre paid for the temporary maintenance of the State Attorney's Office, it was duty to initiate a court case against abstention holders to repay the funds paid. These procedures have been slow and long-term and when the ruling adopted in such a procedure becomes final only then, in the executive procedure, the Republic of Croatia is charged on the property of the abstention payee. In order to address this problem of the long-term and inefficient return procedures, this law for the first time clearly and in detail defines the procedure for returning the paid amount of temporary maintenance in such a way that the Republic of Croatia, by paying itself for the temporary maintenance of the child's legal position and passing on to it the maintenance claims at the level of the amount paid with all secondary rights. In accordance with the proposed law, instead of the long-term court proceedings, the Social Care Centre makes a solution every year that requires the abstentionary to return the funds paid to the Republic of Croatia on the basis of temporary restraint. This solution is an executive document based on the responsibility of the State Attorney's Office to conduct an executive procedure for the payment of the payment of temporary maintenance funds in favour of the State budget. It should be pointed out that the budget of the Republic of Croatia annually spends around 29 million kuna on temporary child restraint and the right of the Republic of Croatia to charge the assets in question from real abstentions remains unfulfilled precisely for the purpose of insufficiently defined recovery proceedings. The law in question also defines for the first time the supervision of law enforcement, the keeping of eyewitnesses of all decisions on the recognition of the right to temporary abstention, the obligation to comply with the amount of temporary abstention in the event of a change in the basis for its determination, compensation for damages and infringements in the event of non-compliance with the law. It is important to further note that the provisions of the Social Care Centre's obligation to initiate criminal proceedings against the abstention debtors who do not pay for abstention in accordance with the power of judgment remain an integral part of the Family Law. The final proposal contains several amendments to the proposal for a law on temporary abstention and is common to all of them by focusing on achieving an even greater level of protection of the rights and interests of the child. Thus, in the final proposal for a law of a redefined provision on the taking into account the restraints that the child receives from grandparents. It is prescribed that in the event of temporary maintenance, it is necessary to make it likely that grandparents per parent who does not pay for maintenance do not contribute to child restraint at least in the amount of temporary abstention as opposed to the provision of a proposal for a law requiring it to make it likely that grandparents are not able to pay for maintenance at the level of the amount of temporary abstention. In this way, it is handled in the child’s interest that his right to temporary restraint does not seem dependent on the ability of grandparents to contribute to its restraint but rather on their real contribution. Namely, grandparents per parent who has not paid for maintenance are obliged to support a child which has not been a newspaper in our family-legal arrangement and has been so functioning for years. In accordance with this provision, the Republic of Croatia shall ensure that, by paying temporary abstention, it makes up for the obligation of parents to pay for maintenance only if, in the meantime, they have not already done so in accordance with their legal provisions by their grandparents. The final draft of the law removes provisions under which the right to temporary maintenance does not have a child who lives in the same household with a maintenance officer. In the event of the establishment of a maintenance obligation and the very height of that maintenance in the Executive Regulation, the circumstances of whether a household restraint undertaking concerned by the maintenance obligation shall be taken into account, and therefore there is no reason for the right to temporary maintenance to be denied to the child by the fact that he or she lives in the same household with a maintenance payment obligation. In order to protect the child's interests, the primary order provision was also amended in order to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Republic of Croatia in order to ensure that the achievement of this claim is defined as having priority over all other claims made on the salary and other permanent incomes other than the child's maintenance demand. In this way, it is ensured that the child restraint demand has absolute advantage over all other claims of that debtor. A provision has also been deleted which prescribed that the Centre for Social Care under official duty will review the decisions on temporary maintenance was adopted under the previous laws, since this provision has proved to be controversial from the point of view of the protection of bankruptcy rights. The adoption of this law will make significant steps primarily towards stronger and more effective protection of the child's right to restraint, will allow for the uniform treatment of social care centres and state attorneys and will significantly facilitate the determination of temporary restraints as well as the return of the amount of temporary abstention paid from abstention holders. Since the Family Law, which enters into force on 1 September 2014, leaves out the provisions on temporary maintenance in order to avoid legal gaps in the arrangement of this area, the entry into force of the Interim Restraint Act is provided for at the same time. I urge you to support the Final Proposal for the Provisional Restraint Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83257	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It is the first club of Croatian Labourists and counterparts Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83258	I don't know who to greet both the vice president and the president of the Croatian Parliament, the deputy minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We have before us the Law on Temporary Maintenance in a second reading in which some articles have been changed, more clearly written or clarified, and it is certainly about increasing the rights of the child. This law is like a product of Family Law, and passed as a special regulation to protect children's rights more effectively and efficiently. It goes into effect with September 1st just like the Family Law. I hope that's the case with regard to the interpretation of the Constitutional Court of Family Law. This law states that the child's right to abstention should the abstention obligation for more than 3 months continuously than the date of initiation of the executive procedure for the purpose of abstention not fulfil its obligation. Then by this law, the state assumes on itself the obligation of parents, which is an obligation to support its children. Very often in life there is a divorce where a child is then assigned to one parent, and the other does not meet the obligations of maintaining his child. In 2010, such children were 40,000, 2012. 60,000, I haven't found the data for 2014 but we can assume that this number is just growing. Alimony determined in divorce cases is one of the parents' obligations. It is not the obligation of grandparents, and grandparents are a special story in this story because of the right to see a child or grandson gets an obligation to assume their children’s self - responsibilities. Where grandparents can support that obligation, I don't think it's questionable at all, however, it is doubtful when grandparents, given the situation and the standard they are in, are unable to comply with that obligation. The parent with whom the child lives then sues grandparents to determine their level of obligation, if it is likely that the grandmother and grandfather of that parent do not contribute to the child's restraint at least in the amount set by this law as the amount of temporary restraint. If grandmothers and grandfathers avoid that obligation, they shall be subject to an executive procedure, etc. and in this way the procedure of the right to temporary restraint is extended. At the end of the day, the state assumes the obligation of restraint. If it means 3 months uninterrupted from the date on which the executive procedure is initiated, the State shall enter into that obligation for the child to be held for up to 3 years. In the Republic of Croatia we have 3700 users who are currently using the right to temporary restraint. 29 million kunas are spent each year. All this remains unpaid together, the state cannot charge and therefore this law is also to simplify the return of funds to the state budget. The only thing that bothers me a little is what happens when the bonds can't get back, they don't have the options, they don't have the income, you don't have the property to pay back the money that was used for temporary maintenance. Then how is the state going to charge for it? We will certainly support the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists this law. We hope that they will live in their entire structure and practice, and my wish is that the number of users of the right to temporary restraint will be as small as possible, not as large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83259	Thank you too, dear colleague. On behalf of the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament, respected representative Djurdjica Sumrak. Here you go, comrade twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83260	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, of course, as we will hear from our grandparents today. In front of us today is the final proposal for a law on temporary abstention that is related to the Family Law and refers to the Family Law. We assume that it calls for a new Family Law proposal, which the Constitutional Court recently had to take down, so I won't bring it down, that it doesn't sound so harshly and injureably to the Ministry of Social Welfare, but it simply said it wasn't right, and this class is only about final provisions, and some of the final provisions are about this very law. Well, it turns out that it's not good to work fast, creamy than to work wisely, and it shows once again that life teaches us, or real life, the reality in which we live, that this reality is much more complex than all of our established regulations, various articles, and that when a person has experience in real life and unfortunately one who encounters some of these conditions of this real life then may be much easier to write some articles of law that can be implemented and that are conductable without harming anyone in the family. This moment here is about a law that should primarily protect children. And this Croatian Parliament, and by the way, we very much want to call on our love, our responsibility to our children, that our children are everything, that children are worth living for. I agree with that, too. And I really think that, in most cases, in families and children, it is the center worth living for, worth raising, worth being devoted to and simply loving. We can't even order this love to children, we can't prescribe any of the articles. And unfortunately, there are situations when you have to. So in accordance with the Conventions on the Rights of the Child, which states that a child is entitled to a standard of living suitable for the child’s physical, mental, spiritual miracle and social development, and parents are primarily responsible for ensuring within their abilities and financial opportunities living conditions necessary for the child’s development. Yeah, that's where I'm gonna stop. Indeed, with the believers, I say to the believers here because I suppose there are people here who are atheists and they don't believe, but it may be with them. In some ways, it is said that this one trust within the family and some family love should be expressed when situations are difficult, when there is no money, when there is something to overcome, and that can be done. Yet, life teaches us again that it is not that simple. The parents of children are mostly out of work. And now they're out of a job, not getting paid. It's about problems, it means unemployment, and that's what all the problems that children have to suffer are all about. Because very often there is a breakdown of marriage communities. We know for ourselves that we have more divorces than we have weddings, that there are fewer children born than there are dead, and I have to say that the whole situation in reality doesn't seem nice. Family law prescribes the duty of parents to support their underage child, a child who is educated, and a year after schooling if a child cannot be employed. Today, children live with their parents until their 30 ’ s and over 30 ’ s in the common household and in the common household for a simple reason because they have no business either. We see for ourselves what the numbers tell us, I won't say that statistics are always human, but unfortunately, they are. Young people leave, and these others don't have a job like their parents, and their only security is to stay in the community with their parents in some way. Since 2003, a family law has been introduced by the Institute of Temporary Restraint and that law determines that this right belongs to a child, if a parent obligor refrains from fulfilling his obligation for more than 6 months continuously or if he has not paid the mandatory amount for 6 months with interruptions within a period of 7 months. Parents living with a child within that time period shall apply for temporary maintenance at the Centre for Social Care, and this shall be done by the Centre for Social Care under official duty. How often the avoidance of the obligation to maintain a new Family Law is present has provided for the temporary maintenance of a special law that we are now discussing as a final proposal. We at the Croatian Democratic Community Club will again, as in our first reading, propose some amendments and comment on the final proposal of this law with the intention to pass a law that will be enforceable. Because at a time of increasing numbers, as I have already cited both divorces and the conclusion of extramarital communities, for which we have no data as to how they fall apart, at a time of this economic crisis and overall unemployment, there are more and more children to whom the Institute of Temporary Restraint is applied. As in our first reading, we will warn of article 7 of this law. Article 7 of this Act states that the right to temporary abstention shall have a child if a parent who does not reside with a child does not fulfil his obligation to abstain on the basis of an executive document in whole or in part and if it is deemed likely. Please, we're going to re-emphasis this with the likely that the grandparents of that parent don't contribute to the child's restraint. Here we come to another part, and that's Grandma and Grandpa. Grandma and Grandpa in our lives we have one special love for each and every one of us here, and they have one special love for our grandchildren. But both grandparents are poor today, because grandparents barely have their pensions if they have them survive this life. But Grandma and Grandpa will always find a kuna for their granddaughter or granddaughter, they will. For us in the Croatian Democratic Community indeed, this Article 7(2) refers in particular to the fact that a grandson or grandson under official duty will have to sue that grandmother and grandfather in order for them to actually take over the exercise of restraint because some son or daughter do not want it or cannot, there are now various opportunities. However, we have now talked about this paragraph 2 because it is indeed confusing in relation to this paragraph 1. It turns out that Grandma and Grandpa are in a more responsible position than the parent, a reluctant to the executive title, because grandparents should contribute to abstention without a court ruling. It will happen again that every official at each center will have a different grade and that each will seem unlikely. Grandparents may be abstention bonds on the basis of a court decision, as only then can an executive procedure be initiated in the event of non-payment of that obligation and after that can the exercise of the right to temporary restraint be initiated. There is a possibility that the time limit of 6 months and 7 will be reduced significantly to 3 months, if, after the failure of the performance towards the parent, the procedure for the obligation to the grandparents followed by the implementation of them is initiated and only after the temporary maintenance. In some ways, the impression is that the state will do everything, that it will include both grandparents, I don't know, it might happen that in some change there are uncles and aunts, and I don't know everyone else before the state gets involved in temporary restraint. Such formulations lead to the conclusion that executive proposals are necessary and against parents who do not comply with their maintenance obligation, then judicial proceedings for the determination of obligations by grandparents and enforcement proceedings against them unless they comply with their obligation. Then only then are the conditions for the exercise of the right to temporary restraint. This will certainly not lead to a 3 months reduction but to a significant extension of the already existing deadline. In the Family Law that we believe is not in force and will not be, because the Constitutional Court has spoken to both the new and the old in principle intergenerational solidarity. But if the monetary obligation is not determined and determined by a court order, then different interpretations are possible. It is assumed that the child must have a special guardian if the procedure under official duty is initiated. Then it's not necessary because it's driven by social workers in front of the Family Court. And this solution stalls the process and the hoarding. Special custodians will be employees of the future Centre for Special Care for which, following that decision, the Constitutional Court does not know when and under what conditions it will start working. Article 15 of the Rules of Procedure states that a abstention obligation will be heard unless it would delay the proceedings. Each party shall have the right to be familiar with the procedure under consideration, shall have the right to make proposals and evidence and to make an appeal in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act and in breach of Article 26. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that all persons are equal before the Court and other bodies of public authority. So then we at the club suggest that this article be deleted because those parties in the procedure must be called upon under the Administrative Procedure Act. Article 27 sets out obligations to the Centre for Social Care which do not comply with the Social Care Act because the reimbursement of funds to the state budget is not in the jurisdiction of the Social Care Centre. We believe that the proposals are justified, in order to simplify the law in order to protect children for the sake of their adoption. We'll submit two amendments on behalf of the club. And what I would like to say now in the end by reading the Family Law, but here's this law, and listening to our proposal not only to get the impression, I think most of us, but also to the public, it's so incomprehensible, so many sentences, so many words incomprehensible, I believe that one of these laws and family law should be so understood by all of us, but also by the grandparents who are working here because I believe that today when they listen, it's not clear what this is all about, except that before they are going to be carried out rather than what the state is going to do with the obligation of temporary restraint. That's all he'll understand. What is more complex, such megalomanic articles when any law should be such that it is understandable to everyone and even if a child in elementary school reads the article should understand it. There's really nothing understandable here. And besides, today we're talking about a law that calls for a new Family Law that the Constitutional Court brought down, and when are we going to meet and talk about something that really has a beginning, end, head and tail? Regardless of the good, maybe the intentions and everything else, but things need to be simplified, they need to be understandable, they need to be such as to shorten the process, not to delay it as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83261	Thank you, too. The Croatian Party of Retired and Respected Representative is on the way I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[/Intruder: No, no.]] No, no, everything's fine. The complex applications were in the order I started reading, and the application was different. Croatian People's Party and Honored Representative Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83262	Thank you very much. As long as you're here, I don't need you. Thank you, well-respected President of our Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. ... In the meantime, I'm correcting, thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's all right. [[I'm sorry.]] Here, the idea and goal of the proposed Law on Temporary Restraint is to charge more successfully and promptly for alimony. Because the problem of paying, or not paying alimony, has been struggling for many years by parents and many institutions, but so far still fails. And there were various ideas and attempts to solve this problem better, the establishment of an alimony fund was proposed, petitions were written, strategies were developed, and during that time it was happening and trials were still going on for years. And these long-term court proceedings, even our judges and judges, contribute to the violation of the rights of children to receive parental restraint in time. So the court, judges and judges violate children's rights. The proposed law stipulates that if a parent does not pay for the alimony for 3 months, the welfare centre will assume payment on itself. A slow and smaller payment will no longer be an obstacle for the child to exercise his right because so far it has been paid for example. 100 kuna put it off. A time when a child does not receive alimony with this proposal will be halved. Therefore, instead of 6 or 7 months after the new one, after 3 months of non-payment or partial alimony payment, mechanisms will be able to activate the child to receive temporary support from the state. It will no longer happen that due to insufficiently defined legal assumptions of the Social Care Centre, for example. in the Split-Dalmatia County, for an identical case, has a completely different practice in interpreting and applying certain provisions, e.g. Centre for Social Care in Zagreb. This law will allow for the uniform treatment of these centres as the assumptions for the exercise of the right to alimony are more clearly defined, the procedure is prescribed, the details of payment are arranged and the like. This law will allow for the uniform treatment of and competent state attorneys, who in recent years, along with parents and social care centres, most of all pointed to difficulties in the process and in the application of legal provisions relating to temporary detention. We believe that by adopting this law, we will also facilitate business and reduce the length of proceedings. It is ironic, but the long-term nature of the procedure can also be an advantage in one case, and that is to say the prison sentence for those parents who do not comply with their maintenance obligation. Because while the convict in prison is the chance to earn and pay temporary restraint is, of course, smaller, almost gone. Such sanctions do not at the same time guarantee the implementation of the child's right of restraint but, in fact, indirectly and make it difficult to settle demand. In fact, prison punishment makes it impossible to earn a profit for one who should pay for restraint and then it is about a kind of vicious circle that actually doesn't do anyone any good. And with this problem, the countries are struggling, which are designed to implement and legal solutions of this kind, have much, much more experience than we are. For example, some have thought that parents who cannot comply with their obligation may or must do so through public works or something like that. This law does not foresee this, but it should also be considered in our opinion and perhaps in some future period with the additions of the law and thus contribute to making them less responsible contribute to the welfare of their children or children as well as to the welfare of society. The company, i.e. the state, provides assistance to this proposed law in the exercise of the rights of the child to temporary restraint, accelerates these processes and reduces the ambiguities in their application and will therefore support the proposed law by the HNS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83263	Thank you very much, both to you and the HNS club. And now we're moving on to an individual debate of deputies over 10 minutes. It is up to the respected representative Ljiljan Cvetovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83264	Dear President, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. By this law, the Proposer undoubtedly demonstrates the intention to protect children whose parent, maintenance officer, does not pay child support, so this obligation is taken by the state. The issue of reimbursement of the amount of temporary abstention has been settled. Temporary abstention is proposed to pay the child for a maximum period of 3 years, so the issue of the effect of such a law is raised because the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are increasingly poor, burdened with a series of performances and several hundred thousand of them have blocked accounts. Thousands of such examples we face daily. I'll list one, a mother with underage girls living in a town with a minimum salary, a father of a maintenance man living in another city, unemployed, no property, living with old and hard-time sick parents who have only one pension of 3000 kuna, and neither grandfather nor grandmother can contribute to supporting their grandchildren. The father of the maintenance officer occasionally receives money by boning grass or by cleavage of wood in the neighborhood or by occasional assistive work on the building on average about 2 months a year. In a year, he sent about 140 applications for employment, but without success even though he is the bearer of the Homeland War monument. The Centre for Social Care paid temporary support for the girls and against the father launched a criminal procedure at the end of which it was found that the father owed on behalf of the paid temporary support of about 40,000 kuna. Most of the time, the father does not have the money to buy a ticket for transport, so he could not have been properly involved in the proceedings before a criminal court and was sentenced to prison. Prison stays fall on the burden of the state, the father can't repay the amount paid for temporary restraint, he can't get a job, and he can't get a job for his life, and the underage girls will stop being held by the law. Social care centres are the Social Care Act, the Family Law and this law are burdened by an increasing number of record-keeping and administrative procedures, and the state budget has no power for quality teaming of experts in centres and their purpose is lost. Helping citizens in social protection or... in these times of crisis requires preventive work to help families, children or obligor support, for example in finding employment. Therefore, the Association of HSU Representatives will attempt to improve the proposed solution to the duration of the right to temporary abstention. Our proposal is that in Article 8, provision 3 suggesting that the child is entitled to temporary detention for a total duration of 3 years, changes and votes, the child is entitled to temporary abstention of employment rights. The limitation of the right to temporary maintenance for a total duration of 3 years is insufficient because experience tells us that during that time very rarely the financial conditions of the abstention debtor are improved. Therefore, we propose that he be entitled to temporary maintenance, provided that the financial situation of the abstention obligors does not change, changes until the moment of his child's right to employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83265	Thank you very much. Finally, respected Deputy Minister Maja Sporish, final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83266	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, I would like to try in this final word to actually respond in one answer to what was the most disputable in this debate. So, if the maintenance officer, whether it was a father, mother, grandparents, is not able to make a return from where the state budget will be charged, the answer is nowhere. This applies, as is the case for any other claim that cannot be charged. But what should be taken into account is that the limitation period is 10 years, the longest time limit for antiquity in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. 10 years, leaves the possibility of creating conditions for that return. However, it is the duty of the state to protect the rights and interests of children, so as to protect your father, mother, grandmother, children, and allow me to read you a quote on this subject. The decisive arguments mean that such interpretation of the law stems from the principle that the payment of child support is primarily in the interest of protecting the welfare of children and their right to a decent standard of living during their adulthood, as well as during their regular education, which is in accordance with the international Convention on the Rights of the Child adopted by Croatia. Children, most often underage at the time of the maintenance obligation, should not harm or harm their attempts to avoid the obligation to abstain from their ancestors. It's just one part of the text in the list of "The Voice of Councils" written by their legal commentator, but on the subject of grandparents I would once again point out, I believed it was relatively clear from the text of the law, but I can see it's not. So if they can contribute to restraint, and if they can, and not contribute, then the state won't jump in and that's the control mechanism. As far as the clarity and expression of the law is concerned, I would just like to say that our opinion and opinion of the legal experts that we've been working with, that the law and everything in fact is about writing the law, something that they're getting to know us over and over again, that the law should be clear to those who apply it, and just those who apply it, representatives of the Centre for Social Care and the State's Attorney's Office, and they took part in the drafting of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83267	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have a replica of the esteemed MPs, Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83268	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mrs. Sporish, it is unquestionably necessary to do everything in the child's interest, it is undeniable, however, and it has never been disputed that grandparents and indeed grandparents and self-initiative help, but please nicely, this as it is now stated, can't go to the child's father-in-law. There will be offended all grandparents, my mother and my father have 3 grandchildren and grandchildren, and I have to say that this relationship is special, different from our children, and there is no such thing as what they wouldn't do for them. But is it my mother and father's fault if I simply don't want to take care of my child anymore? Is it the mother and father's fault? Unless it was proved that their son or daughter was sick that he died, that it was not intellectually able to decide at all, then I would understand that this responsibility before the state is passed on to grandparents. But if a parent is obliged to maintain a healthy intellectually, physically in all other ways, but he won't, he's rude, he's irresponsible, so put him in jail, take everything he has in a short procedure. So why are you putting everything on their mother and father, or grandparents, they are responsible? Well, it's not a company. The relationship between grandparents and children is not a company. That's the problem. However, everything should be done so that alimony can be charged in a brief procedure, according to a brief procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83269	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of Deputy Minister Maya Sporish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83270	Thank you very much. I'd just like to mention one thing. In the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, grandmothers and grandfathers have been in existence since 2003, so they exist as maintenance bonds under the 2003 Family Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83271	Thank you very much. We've exhausted a list of reports and replicas and replies to the replica. The debate on the text is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal for a law on temporary abstention, second reading, P.Z. 656. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by: Legislative Committee, the Croatian Party of Retired Representatives Club and the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth Maja Sporish to show himself about the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. Amendment 1 to Article 39
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83273	The President-in-Office of the Parliament, the honourable MPs and MPs of the amendment, is hereby accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83274	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83275	The amendment is not accepted. It is the primary obligation of parents to support the child, and in addition to both grandparents per parent who does not support the child. Transferring this obligation to the state would encourage irresponsible parenting.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83276	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83277	We believe that our amendment is suitable for the current situation in Croatian society and social situation and I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83278	I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the Club of Representatives of HSU which the Government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club. Amendment No. Article 7 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83279	The amendment is not accepted. The obligation of grandparents to support underage children unless the parent does so is prescribed by the Family Law of 2003 and is not subject to the regulation of this law. This provision ensures that by paying temporary abstention, the Republic of Croatia replaces the obligation of parents to pay for maintenance only if, in the meantime, they have not already done so in accordance with their legal obligation by their grandparents.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83280	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83281	Thank you, Your Honor. The HDZ Club has tabled this amendment for reasons that it is not specified exactly when and under what conditions grandfathers and grandmothers assume the obligation to abstain. In fact, the law as we've seen it stands if it's done probably. Any monetary obligation must be determined and determined, so we believe that the article that we have proposed should look exactly like putting a point behind this word where grandparents are mentioned. I'm asking that we vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83282	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the HDZ Representatives' Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 2nd same club of MPs, respected deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83283	It's unacceptable. This provision complies with the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as opposed to the position of the applicant of the amendment to the provision in question, the right of any party to take part in the procedure, to propose evidence and to indicate the evidence provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83284	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Nada Murganic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83285	Thank you. We warn that the amendment is contrary to Article 26. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which states that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and foreigners are equal before courts and other state and private bodies with public authority. When, under which conditions and who will assess whether calling or non-invoking a party in the procedure will delay the procedure again is undetermined and indeterminate and may create some additional problems. Since the law is governed, the whole procedure is governed by the Law on Administrative Procedure, this article is unnecessary. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83286	Please state the amendment No. 2. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much, I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a statement. Final bill. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 86 votes in favour and 28 abstentions have been passed by law P.Z. No. 656 in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment accepted. And let's go to work by: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests, second reading, P.Z. No. 620 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of the law, Articles 194 to 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received reports from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83288	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Before us is the second reading, i.e. the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests. The main objective of this amendment and the addition of the Forest Act is to accelerate the administrative process for the disposal of forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of attracting investors with quality investment projects, which will affect increased economic activity and new employment. These changes and additions simplify the process of demarcating forest land from forest areas of the Republic of Croatia in such a way as to enable it to adopt a spatial plan, but at the same time increase the level of forest protection and forest land. So far, a double procedure has been prescribed, i.e. the ministry had first given an opinion on the spatial plan, and then the process of detaching forest land from the forest-economic area of the Republic of Croatia for which it was necessary to have an established interest of the Republic of Croatia, which often meant that the spatial plan would receive a positive opinion, but subsequently, when the investment itself was carried out, it could not be carried out because there was no established interest in the Republic of Croatia. The new solution envisions increased forest protection in a way that will protect forests and forest land in its own right until the adoption of a state spatial plan. The spatial plan, which plans to extend the construction area to forests and forest land, can only be adopted with a explicitly positive opinion from the Ministry of Agriculture, and forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, which are thus declared by a spatial plan to be declared a building area, are set out in the forest-economic area of the Republic of Croatia on the day of entry into force of the spatial plan that is included in the construction area. These changes will also allow for the construction of camps and golf courses that are spatially planned on forests and forest land through the Institute of Construction Rights and the declaration of the forest of special purpose, with the fact that the surfaces will remain in the forest economy. There will be no change in land ownership as a fundamental resource of the Republic of Croatia, and it will allow the construction of the necessary facilities for raised levels of tourist offer and attracting new investors. So building the necessary facilities for the needs of these contents will be possible. The special purpose of the forest will be to protect the purpose of camp or golf, and the catastrian culture will not change and such areas will continue to be forest-owned by the Republic of Croatia and will be managed by the Trade Society of the Croatian Forests. Simplified, managed, not sold. In order to achieve this model, we have already used positive institutes and legal acts from the field of real rights, the Institute of Construction Rights, and from the management area of forest forestry for special purposes. In this regard, the Institute of Construction Rights allows the right of ownership not to be sold, while allowing for the implementation and implementation of the purpose needed for tourism at the moment. I point out that attention is given to something very good because it speaks of our care for the general good, and it cannot be said that to raise tourism competitiveness and offers we do not need both arranged camps and additional facilities as golf courses. The second act we used is from the management area of forestry, these are the special purposes that enable us to keep the same areas in the forest area of the Republic of Croatia and to keep the forest within the area provided for golf or for the camp in accordance with the Law on Forests and all sublaws. Furthermore, these amendments to the Forest Law are in line with the Law on the Advisory Service which established the Advisory Service, among other things, from the improvement of forest management and forest land of forest owners, which combines advisory activities in the area of responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and gives greater operationality and impact needed for the upcoming tasks, with an emphasis on the use of significant funds under the Rural 2014-2020 Programme, where we have also envisaged certain measures or sub-measures for the forestry sector. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests also allows for the use of certain forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, the authorities of the state administration and individual bodies can be managed for the purpose of scientific and scientific and educational activities, and only legal persons whose status as a public institution is the founder of the Republic of Croatia and their scientific and educational components. Furthermore, this Law regulates the issues of using compensation and use of generally beneficial forests, etc. The OCFŠ so that these funds would be paid into a special account and, accordingly, sublegal acts would determine the conditions and means of use of those funds, making the spending process and the supervision of the implementation of those funds transparent. Furthermore, this law sets out all areas intended to raise long-term plantations and to manage the Agricultural Land Agency and manage them according to the regulation governing the availability of agricultural land, which will significantly facilitate the construction and monitoring of the agricultural holdings themselves and enable the withdrawal of funds from the Rural Development Programme. The main problem here is that the current Law on Forests could not be built on forest land and the surfaces that were intended to raise many years of plantations were still managed as forest land and could not be built any object, e.g. if we are talking about the vineyard basement, the delicious or the accompanying facilities that are needed and in this way we are actually allowing such areas that are not forest land in nature but agricultural land to be normally invested in the further development of agricultural holdings. For all these reasons, especially because of the importance of forests and forest land as good for the Republic of Croatia, and because of the conditions for new investment investments and the creation of new added values, in order to strengthen the investment spirit and the representation of the Republic of Croatia as a country suitable for new investments, we also propose the adoption of this Act in the light of the provisions of the law, such as the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia and the Law on Spatial Planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83289	Thank you, Minister, we have a replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83290	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you have initially said that one of the most important reasons for proposing and adopting this law is to speed up the process of issuing forests and forest land from the forest-economic base for the realization of certain projects, etc., etc. And with that, you're right. However, in your whole presentation, you have not said another more important reason why this Law is being passed and what we believe to be in the club of the Croatian Democratic Community, and I will later discuss it in an individual debate on behalf of the club, which is why this law abolishes the provision that was in the existing law, which is that, after such a proposal of the law, if adopted, the provision restricting the possibility of deforestation and forest land from the forest-economic base is abolished. So there is no criterion that could prevent a spatial plan, with your express consent, from detached from the forest-economic base forest and forest land. This, in our opinion, is a more important reason that we need to be pointed out in relation to what you said, which is to speed up the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83291	Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83292	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, the entire amendments to this law can in principle be reduced to three articles 24, 25 and 26 because the key changes regarding Croatian forests have just been contained in these three articles. However, what may have been the most controversial in the debate of the Strategic Investments Act is unfortunately confirmed that doubts, doubts what will happen in reality and confirms Article 24, paragraph 5. Again, without clear criteria, although you said it would not be isolated from the forest part, it will remain in the cataster under the forests here it is said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can separate certain forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia from the forest-economic area for the purpose of implementing a strategic project in the interests of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the regulations. So, according to the regulations that caused the most resistance in the debate on strategic investment in the House of Commons. Now I don't understand if this law comes three months or four months after we discussed the Strategic Investments Act in this House that you haven't looked at all the recommendations, doubts, doubts that happened when we discussed this Law, but here you simply lay down the provision that this will be regulated by the Strategic Investments Act, which was the most controversial. It was just the most controversial coverage of water, forest and agricultural land because it was not clearly defined which area could be affected. And you're here again, so now you're just texting it, that vagueness, can practically take as many as you want, because that's his assessment. And the key to this law, so this 24, 25, 26, we can tell that he lex specialis law would be just so that he defines what the Law on Strategic Investments didn't define.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83293	Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the working bodies, committees, presidents want to present reports? Yeah. Here you are, Branko Bačić, a respected representative on behalf of the Committee on Environmental Protection,... Then what? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83294	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with an associate, an esteemed colleague and colleague. The Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 47th session held on 2 July 2014 the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed final draft law as an interested working body. In its opening statement, the proposing representatives briefly presented the proposed legislative solutions, in particular in the part which regulates the problem of detached forest and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia from the forest-economic area and the conditions of construction of golf courses and camps. Following the opening argument in the debate, it was pointed out that although the applicant accepted the board's conclusion that the proposed law was conducted in two readings, he missed the opportunity to seriously consider and adopt the Committee's comments when drawing up this final proposal. It is once again pointed out that such defined legal solutions question the preservation of valuable forests and forest land, especially because of the possibility that construction areas can be established on forest and forest land for any purpose. Since the above-mentioned objective of forest and forest land protection is seriously questioned, it is necessary to prescribe the conditions and criteria for the expansion of the construction area to forest and forest land and to clearly define a type of project that should not be developed in the area of forest and forest land. It is unacceptable to assess the possibility of building golf courses and campsites, which are provided for in the spatial plan in the forest and forest land, so that the same area is not included in the construction area and remains in the forest-economic area of the Republic of Croatia, and the purpose is achieved by establishing the right of construction. It has been warned that the camp space is essentially building land, since it is necessarily equipped with infrastructure. A member of the Committee of Public Scientific and Professional Workers, who is also a member of the Croatian Chamber of Forestry and Wood Technology Engineers, made a proposal to amend Articles 5, 8 and 30 of the final proposal of the Law. In Article 5 of the final proposal of the law, Article 17(2) of the Treaty proposes to delete the point and add the word in a manner and subject to the conditions laid down by this law and specific regulations. This supplement would restore that formulation from the applicable law and bring the proposed law into line with the Nature Protection Act. In Article 8 of the final proposal of the law, Article 22, paragraph 6 of the amended Article, states to delete the point and add words to the forestowners who manage less than 20 hectares of forest or according to the criteria prescribed by the Minister by the Regulation. That amendment would help small forest owners to reach the economic sustainability threshold in their forest management and ensure a differentiated approach to large and small forest owners to finance the cost of production, renovation or revision of the management programme and the cost of work of the expert commission. In Article 30 of the final proposal for a law, it is proposed to extend in the amended Article 61 by an appropriate amendment to the obligation to provide financial resources from the management activity to all forest managers in the Republic of Croatia regardless of the objectives and forms of ownership. The question of demarcating forests for the purposes of State border control without clearly defined criteria to be applied. In fact, this is about large areas and potentially significant reduction of the national potential of the CO2 storage forest defined by the Kyoto Protocol. The committee members supported those proposals and comments, noting that the applicant also considered and demonstrated them during the debate until the plenary session was debated. In the context of Article 50(4) of the applicable law which regulates the Minister to adopt a regulation on the type of forest work and minimum conditions for their implementation, it is stressed that the need to include, when drawing up a new regulation, a first-rate education in the Bologna system at the Faculty of Forests has been stressed. From the point of view of the existing obligations, units of local self-government for forest-economic areas were requested to clarify the provisions of the amended Article 55, which regulated the payment of compensation for isolated forests and forest land declared as a spatial area. The debate also noted that the implementation of the proposed law will not contribute to the announced improvements in the process acceleration and economic recovery. After the debate was held, the committee did not support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests because 6 members voted in favour of the law and 7 members were against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83295	Thank you very much, esteemed board president. Now we're moving on to the debate... Is there anyone else from the president of the labor force? There isn't. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the club List of Independent Representatives and Honored Representatives Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83296	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. So, on the trail of this discussion by the Committee on Agriculture, I also think that this law is at least dangerous, even dare say that Mr. Jakovina is not behind it, but behind that law stands the Ministry of Tourism. I normally call this law the Golf Act and what I want to welcome is, above all, the decision of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia which recently annulled the Ministry of Environmental Protection's decision to build a Brkač under Motovun complex at the very borders of the Motovun forest. The High Administrative Court simply annulled it. What was planned there was to build 498 beds in 67 villas and apartments and many other clearly economic, catering, construction, building, I don't know what kind of building, and the holder of the procedure was supposed to be a certain Stancia Dolzani d.o.o. So once again I welcome this decision of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. I agree that the Republic of Croatia is crying out for investment and I also think that no one in this House should be against golf, but against the apartmentisation absolutely yes, against mixing as well as against favouring anyone else as well. The key to this law is certainly Articles 24 and 28 of Article 24 first, respectively, that forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, which are declared a building area, are separated from the forest economic area of the Republic of Croatia on the day of entry into force of the spatial plan to which it is involved, means this construction area. And item 5, just to skip this rest, the Government of the Republic of Croatia can separate certain forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia from the forest economic area for the purpose of implementing a strategic project of interest for the Republic of Croatia according to a special regulation governing strategic investment projects of the Republic of Croatia. Accordingly, Article 28, which first states that forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia can be established for the purpose of construction of golf courses, camps and buildings whose construction is planned according to a spatial plan outside the building area. The contract on the right to build on forests and forest land referred to in paragraph 1 shall be those golfes, etc. This article shall be drawn up on behalf of the Republic of Croatia by the Head of the Ministry. And item three. The contract referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be concluded for a specific forest, forest land declared by the Ministry with a special purpose for the construction of golf courses and campsites on the basis of an approved forest management programme with a special purpose. So I'm gonna say it one more time, third time, I don't know. No one thinks it's against golf, but it's also a question of how to get to that golf course. Here, for example, they're trying to pull five million euros from Brussels, from the EU, to build some golf in Poreč. Well, that's amazing! It simply belongs to what they believe or not. It's just like in Buzet you managed to imagine for fitness to pull out of Brussels, fitness at an open 100,000 kuna. What does this Europe do, what does this local community do? To be clear, I have nothing against fitness, but why is it that instead of golfing or fitness Europe is not investing in our industrial zones, why is it not investing in schools or something like that? And finally, why don't you make hotelers invest in golf? For example, they received dozens of hotels along the Adriatic coast through coupon privatisation. They use free tourist land. How much? It's been a circus for 20 years. They get and pay ridiculous concessions and now the city of Brussels, the sorry city of Poreč, with EU funds filled by the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia's tax because we only get the funds we pay. So now we should be building golf for them down there. No, let this Brussels fund schools, let them finance trades, let them finance ports. And for the third time, I'm gonna say I don't mind golfing, but not being one front for real estate business. This is the law that has the title of the Forest Act. But this law is a de facto golf law. In Istria, the problem of inability so far, such as building in the woods, would be solved elegantly by burning. You light up the woods and redesign the culture. You burn down the forest and then, say, turn the forest into a building plot. You have to have a clearly skilled pyromaniac, someone who decides to repurpose. Of course it costs a little something, but it's also the fact that it's being invested quickly. We, for example, burned the woods and then raised the olive groves. Okay. We burned forests for construction plots just by the sea to a political elite from Zagreb that bought those forests down the coast. We burned those forests to depose users who, for example, received concessions to keep goats there, to clean forests, and then it turned into vineyards and so on. The last time this law was on the agenda I was saying, I quote myself that the difference between this law and that of the Golf Act is next. This is about real construction. That right could be 30, 40, 99 years old. It was about expropriation. Normally, only private land can be expunged. State land can't be expunged. In the case of expropriation, whatever it is under quotes, fair compensation you must pay that fee to the owner of the plot or the property in question, the forest or agricultural land anyway, while in the right to build there are gentlemen of some other principle, that time some other principles that I no longer quote. So someone gets 100, someone gets 200, someone gets 300 ha and I claim they can get 100, 200, 300 ha de facto without compensation. And I ask myself if we already know who those who can get under those conditions are 100, 200 ha or 300 ha somewhere two, three or five kilometers from the sea in Istria, on an island, in Dalmatia or elsewhere. No matter what, two, three kilometers. Maybe 100, 200 or 300 meters. Maybe it's nothing unusual. Foreigners got banks in us either without compensation or for a bagatella. Then the banks had previously received hotels through a revolving and previously paid principal loan, through a coupon privatisation, some others would also get hotels in Istria for nothing, and our best sons for one or two kunas come to the hills, to the ground, to the orans, to the vineyards, etc. For example, 10 thousand square meters in Istria, when it comes to the state land to understand each other, sold for 10 thousand, perhaps 20 thousand kuna. You are now selling it without any re-use for 30, 40 euros as a rule somewhere between 50, 60 euros. Imagine, you buy 10, 20 acres and there are such examples, and then you sell those 10 or 20 acres for 40, 50 or 60 euros. It's about 400 times or 4000 percent. In one word, 1,000 square feet of gentlemen would buy for the equivalent of 4 pcs of cigarettes. So here we are talking about building rights and I'm asking myself a question for how many years? Who's going to determine all this? You don't know that. I understand that every case is a special case, but it is interesting that this argument on page 20, which literally says that it also regulates the possibility of building a golf course, a camp that is provided by a spatial plan in the forest and forest land, with the same area not being included in the construction area and remains in the forest-economic area of the Republic of Croatia and the purpose being achieved by establishing the right of construction. This way of legalizing the construction of golf courses and campsites in the forest, forest land is currently said to be an ideal model because it provides protection of forests and forest land with the possibility of achieving and the purpose envisaged by the spatial plan and the realization of investment projects. This would significantly speed up the land-owned process of the Republic of Croatia, all for the purpose of attracting new investors with quality investment projects, which would imply increased economic activity and clear new employment. I'm also asking myself who's interested in that golf course in the woods? What forest is that? I claim, among other things, to the Motovun forest where three golf courses are drawn. Fortunately, one of them, that's this Blitzer, has fallen off. And now I'm asked alive if anyone is going to invest in golf without having suites of 69, say, villas that were supposed to be built down there plus apartments, etc.? Well, clearly, no one's going to invest. Therefore, this law is an indirect law on apartmentisation. Our people who have apartments will also have to imagine themselves, even though these resorts could not be their competition, but you know what offends you? Do I, for example? Can I say I want to build in my forest on that and that particle? Can any of you say I want to build in my forest or in my father's forest on that and that particle? And you know what? The answer at the forest ministry or I don't know where it's gonna be first they're gonna look at you strangely, and in the end they could probably answer you if you try that, then we'll tear you down. But on the other hand, you can build golf, you can build a resort, you can apartmentize a forest, but one barn in that forest you can't build for your goats. You can't build a tavern in that forest, you can't build a workshop in that forest or something. And it's so clear to me that this law is absolutely unacceptable to me. And that's why I said that it seems to me that this law is primarily the Ministry of Tourism, not the Ministry of Forests. And there's some logic there, after the gentlemen have bought these hills now beneath the hills, they should, understandably, be recruited by them and their guests. And because this is the law of a political elite, not of those people who run the Ministry of Forests or Agriculture, but of tourism, I am against this law. Because this law has absolutely nothing to do with the woods. Because I am convinced that for one of these laws, despite the fact that this law defends the Minister of Agriculture is neither the Minister of Agriculture nor the Minister of Agriculture. Let the gentlemen take the land for the first time to those who got one square for one kuna, and if they weren't farmers, then we'll talk about this law, and by then I'll be against it myself. And I am keenly interested in who was at those locations starting from Istria and then threw his eye out and whether or not a potential investor who was supposed to be involved would be able to say in one of these perfidious robberies of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83297	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President, Mr. Milorad Batinić, has a replica on your presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83298	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, my colleague Cain, I don't know what text of the law you had, what you were reading, were you at least talking about the forest law. But it is your right to also politically articulate certain moods. In fact, I would only like you in this section when you said that we burned the woods, repurposed them in 2005 in the Law on the Forests of Article 53, which speaks the burning surface of the forest cannot be brought to another culture for 5 years since the fire. Namely, I was in the course of my first reading saying that this article is too high in the new one, in this existing law. I can accept that it remains, but forest practice does not know, there is a completely different procedure for changing forest land into someone else that is now prescribed by these amendments to the laws. So I can't agree in principle in general with your entire debate because it just comes out of the context that's in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83299	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83300	I really have to admit that I do not know or know Croatian practice, but I know very well about Istrian practice, arson and re-design. Burn the forest and make it nice for the olive grove, light up the forest and refurbishing it into building plots. Let's not talk about names now. Burn the forest and make this forest owner who keeps the goats in the forest and then make vineyards of that forest, etc. But all for the guys from a certain political option. This, Mr. Vice President, is not the Forest Act. This is the Golf Act. And once again I will read to you article 57a "About forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia can be established, however, the right to build a golf course, a camp and a building of which is planned outside the building area, outside the building area." I think that this practice should be stopped or we should be told who those interested in building these golf courses outside the construction area in our forests are. And once again I will welcome the decision of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia who recently banned such practice under Motovun where a golf course, golf course may not be a problem but the 69 villas with the corresponding apartments and so on. This law is therefore not the law behind which the Ministry of Agriculture stands, but behind that law stands the Ministry of Tourism. And whoever runs it, as far as it goes, we'll do it some other time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83301	Your last name is Cain, isn't it, dear representative?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83302	Cain is my last name, not Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83303	Ah, Cain, thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. The Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative of Nenad Plesa are on their way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83304	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests, which is in the second reading, which does not differ God knows which of those first readings we had in 3 months. 4 months later, we receive this bill although there were a whole series of remarks and a proposal from the Government as a promoter, it has only accepted that the law goes into second reading, the objection of the Legislative Committee to nomotechnical expressions, and one article of the Committee on the Protection of Nature and the Environment of paragraph 2 in Article 29 of the existing law. 48 articles have changed in the old law, and if I go now to list which articles I am not satisfied with or which articles would be thrown out as a declaration of special purpose forests, a golf course and camps, because it is unacceptable for special purposes to be declared a ministry, a decree, and unacceptable to reroute valuable forests and forest land to building plots, etc. etc. I would have suggested that this law be withdrawn. Croatian forests are a state in the country. Someone said the other day when the Croatian People's Bank was being discussed, that the Croatian National Bank is also a state in the country. We have more and more of these countries in the country, and that's why we live the way we live, and that's why we feel the way we do. Here we have also heard that the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection does not support this bill either. Croatian forests rule the largest wealth in the Republic of Croatia that extends to 47% of the territory. And in this house, there's not a single report about how he's mastering that space. And how mastery, bad and not at all. Along the road in Gorski Kotar lies about 30 to 40 thousand cc's of food mass, construction, logs waiting for bidding, and only two bids were held this year. The corpses that lie in this way are exposed to the sun, water, decay, supporters, intruders, lost to quality and to God and to price. These logs have to be stored at temporary warehouses, which requires transportation, sorting and that's an additional cost again. ... calls for raw materials that do not have enough raw materials come to contracts with Croatian forests according to the criteria that only Mr Pavelic knows, by some methodology probably mathematical formulas because Mr Pavelic is a mathematician, an informer and not an expert in forestry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The contract annex could assign those quantities waiting for auctions to small processors who have the will to do so, have the capacity and have the money to pay for it immediately. But they are forced to wait for the bidding that will be conducted by the Ministry of Economy. I wonder why the Ministry of Economy when Croatian forests have their services have their own commercials. A third of the workers in the processing industry were employed in the wood industry. Out of the total number of registered companies in the wood industry, 96% are small companies that depend on Croatian forests, which are the backbone of the development of wood industry. The politics of management of Croatian forests with wood mass is better to stand and fall than to assign additional amounts to small milliners. Stimulating the wood industry and in a short time could increase exports from 900 million to a billion and a half US dollars and employ a far greater number of people than in any other sector. It's exactly the Delnica forest has income from 150 to 160 million kuna. Last year's income amounted to 12 million kunas, profit actually... Delnica forest, if the profit remained in the management of the forest could be additionally employed by 100 people, 100 families could live from the work of people in the Croatian forests. However, the policy of the Croatian forests is savings, and to save is the number of downsizing employees, so they will probably be less employed by the end of this year, i.e. leaving the Croatian forests 100 people and engineers,... and technicians. The damage on the surface of 30,000 hectares in the forests of Gorski Kotar this winter is 32m euros from freezing rain. It is nothing to the damage caused by this law and this management of Croatian forests. The value of forest in wood mass is only 1% seen cumulatively, all the benefits provided by forests, viewed through the general useful functions of the forest. 1% is a few dozen billion euros and I find that with such great wealth, we question this law. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83305	Thank you, too. My dear colleague, we have a replica of the esteemed MPs, Miss Sumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83306	My dear colleague, you spoke here about strategies and the strategy of forestry. Well, I'd just like to say in my replica something that you weren't talking about. That increasing the area under forests and increasing the wood supply is one and the only positive item for the Republic of Croatia in annual reports of greenhouse gas inventory, i.e. the counterweight is the increase of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, and that any reduction in forest surfaces must be shown in the annual report and is a negative item in the report which may also result in payment of foams, which may be a significant expenditure for the Republic of Croatia's budget, and this must be particularly highlighted in the light of the adoption of an EU forest strategy that highlights the need for sustainable forest management and stresses the overall usefulness of forest functions, i.e. environmental forest services, especially in the context of increasingly visible climate change, as well as the pressure on forests in terms of the growing demand for wood mass.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83307	The answer to the line, the esteemed representative of Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83308	I thank my colleague for this supplement, and I agree with you completely because we have a large, high-quality resource that few countries can raise in the EU and if we continue to rule in this way, surely these figures that you've been saying can be negative and be even greater and even more negative for our forests, for our God and for our health and for our community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83309	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Social-Democratic Party Club of Croatia and the Honored Representative, Zoran Vasic, is next. Here's your colleague Vasic, on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83310	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests before us defines issues concerning one of the most important natural resources available to the Republic of Croatia, which are forests. It's an important law because it speaks of almost half of our country's land surface. A number of newspapers in this proposed law in relation to the existing law and it provides, among other things, that the interests of the Republic of Croatia in forest management and forest land are also realised by the adoption of the National Strategy for Forestry and Wood Industry and the National Programme of Forestry and the National Wood Industry Programme. This is particularly important because these two sectors employ a large number of employees, but also because of their influence in the development of the entire economy. The National Strategy for Forestry and Wood Industry sets out and defines the National Forest and Wood Industry Policy, and the National Programme for Forestry lays down the conditions for the implementation of forest policy elements and defines the framework for sustainable forest management by respecting their multi-purpose role and use. Its component is the implementation of policies, monitoring and assessment at national level with a view to further improving the sustainable management of forests, as well as establishing and maintaining natural relations between species and improving their natural habitats. When we talk about the National Wood Industry Programme, it should say that it sets out a framework and lays down measures for the balance of demand and sustainable management of wood, i.e. to meet the growing demand for wood raw materials for the production of existing and new products and for the production of energy. The national wood industry programme also contains instruments to boost the competitiveness of the wood industry of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. measures to encourage the economy to a high degree of finalisation of wood products and exports thereof. These amendments to the laws also regulate issues governing the demarcation of forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia from the Forest-economic area. Namely, forests and forest land declared by a spatial plan are separated from the forest-economic area of the Republic of Croatia on the day of entry into force of the spatial plan which is included in the building area. These forests and forest land have been in the jurisdiction of the state administration authorities entrusted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the management and availability of state assets and the coordination of management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia. The novelty of the existing law is the fact that a spatial plan that plans to expand the construction area to forests and forest land can be passed as we have heard from the minister, only with a explicitly positive opinion from the ministry. According to the promoters, it is a guarantee that some unreasonable requirements regarding the expansion of construction areas to forests and forest land in the production of local or regional spatial plans cannot be implemented. Forests and forest land are the wealth of this country and should be protected but also used for the needs of economic development and investment. These changes and additions also regulate the possibility of building golf courses and campsites, which are provided for in the spatial plan in the forest and forest land, so that the same area is not included in the construction area and remains in the forest-based area of the Republic of Croatia, and the purpose is achieved by establishing the right of construction. This way of legalizing the construction of golf courses and campsites in the forest and forest land is currently the best model because it provides protection of forests and forest land with the possibility of achieving the purpose envisaged by the spatial plan and the realization of investment projects. This is also, in some ways, in compliance with other laws, and above all, I am referring to the Law on Spatial Planning, i.e. Article 44, paragraph 8. The law on spatial planning states that outside the construction area, construction and campsites and golf courses and other sports-recreation playgrounds can be planned in the open with accompanying buildings. Such forest and forest land the ministry declares the forest with special purpose for the construction of golf courses and campsites, and on the basis of the approved, this is particularly important, forest management programmes with special purpose. According to data from the Tourism Development Strategy adopted in this House a little over a year ago, with 98 votes for and 5 abstentions, so no one was against saying that by 2020 Croatia has seen the built 30 high-quality golf courses mostly recreational, and to a lesser extent the competitive character, or that the strategy says that special attention is being paid to environmental sustainability, so above all, the preference of devasted areas, the restriction of construction in protected and restricted water availability, the restriction of invasive interventions in space and landscapes and others. Golf courses can significantly contribute to the development of a tourist offer because by building the first golf courses Croatia will be a new tourist product that will further strengthen the competitiveness of its tourism. By offering golf courses we will be able to attract for the first time those tourists who visit only golf destinations, and as it is known they are tourists who spend more than average or travel throughout the year. Statistics say the number of golf courses in Europe has doubled in the last 20 years. But here I also want to stress when we talk about building golf courses in the forest and forest land, the importance of some other laws again, and that is, above all, the Nature Protection Act and the Environmental Protection Act. In particular, the Environmental Impact Assessment Regulation is currently in Annex 1 under the list of procedures for which an environmental impact assessment under regular number 48 is required is a golf course with corresponding structures. So we can also say it in one way an additional guarantee that if it is not in line with environmental protection or nature protection, one other ministry will react. Since there are around 23% of private forests in the Republic of Croatia, these changes and additions, in line with the recommendations of the forest sector, would also carry out advisory activities on forests and forest land for forest owners. I will remind here that in the Republic of Croatia with private forests lords close to 600 thousand owners and that these private forests are located on an area of about a million and a half plots. That's what they said enough about how fragmented that private property is, or small areas. The 2010 Law amending the Law on Forests abolished the forest advisory service and took over the trade company of the Croatian Forests. Under this proposal for a law rounding all advisory activities in the area of responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, synergy in work and greater operational efficiency would be achieved for the upcoming tasks with an emphasis on the important role in the use of the rural development programme for the period 2014-2020. It would also allow licensed persons to perform all works in forest owners' forests. This would avoid the intervention of Croatian forests d.o.o. which would significantly facilitate the management of these forests and forest land, while the Croatian Chamber of Engineers and Wood Technology would perform its role and tasks that ultimately and founded it. The amendments to the laws will also allow individual forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia to be used by state administration authorities, while some can be managed for scientific research and scientific teaching purposes. This Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests provides for compensation and the use of generally useful functions of the forest, so the famous KEFŠ would be paid to a special account and, accordingly, the Minister would, by means of a sublegal act, determine the conditions and means of use of these funds, thereby making the process of spending and controlling the implementation of the same amount much more transparent than so far. So far, these funds have been paid into the account of the Trade Society of the Croatian Forests. I'll just remind you that the fee currently paid is 0.0265% on total income in the previous year. For information only, in 2012 277 million kunas were paid from the OkFŠ. In many European countries, there is a large share of private forests in the total area under the forests. At the same time, these forest owners also make their incomes, and many of them live on their private forests. And exactly the funds from the OkFŠ Fund are meant to regulate the situation in private forests. This situation should certainly be changed and I welcome this ministry initiative to give greater importance to forest owners and through the new work of advisory services, but also through the use or new use of funds from the OkFŠ. In addition to this proposal by law, all forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia which are designated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as land on which a service can be established to raise several years of land, this proposal would separate itself from the forest-economic area of the Republic of Croatia in the jurisdiction of the Agricultural Land Agency. In total, this is about 10 decisions made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia from 2004 to '13. And I'm just going to remind you for information that it's in '13. The government made a decision on a total area of 985 hectares for the purpose of establishing services, so to raise many years of plantations. As we have heard from the minister in this way our farmers who have raised plantations will be able to further expand their production or invest in processing facilities. Finally, I would like to say that forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia should be protected and preserved by their natural nature, the mixed nature of our ingredients, however, care should also be taken of economic development. And this very co-existence is very important, and I believe that this bill will achieve that. Following this, KCub SDP will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83311	Thank you, too. Dear colleague, we have one set of replicas. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83312	Dear fellow Vasic, since you seem to me also professional, is that right, forestry, here you spoke naturally in front of your party and of course you will support it. However, you have asked a few questions and I will now ask you the same question, try to answer me. Why did we not discuss in this Croatian Parliament a partnership agreement that was sent to Brussels before the Government of the Republic of Croatia because all the priority projects of the Republic of Croatia were reportedly presented in this agreement? We didn't discuss it. Why am I saying that? Because today this law, in front of us, we have a forest law, regardless of the promise of the Ministry and Mr. Minister but also the Government that a new forest law will come, that there will be a strategy of forestry and wood industry that should certainly be, Mr. Minister waving his head says he did not promise it but should have done so in view of the new forest law that we do not have yet and the law should be attached to the strategy whether or not the rest. And I'm wondering if it doesn't seem to you that this is a written law exclusively but exclusively because of the golf course, because of some investors that we don't know about, these are some in the shadows. And can we trust the Minister that he will do his discretionary rights for the OkFŠ and also for the approval of such projects, or will it be according to the rule of the party?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83313	Replica response, Honored Representative Zoran Vasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83314	Dear colleagues of the twilight, it's interesting that even in the first reading with me on the left hand side of this hall, so from your club comes attitudes or the thesis to know who's behind this law. I asked you the question last time, so I personally don't know who stands or who should stand behind it, if you know, I invite you, here for the second time publicly, say it for all of us, say it for the Croatian public to prevent these things once. What counterpart Cain was saying was that a golf course, so for a golf course in Istria, that construction or further activities had been suspended. So look, if there really were any inadmissible actions, I'm going to say in the whole procedure, so I'm the first one to support it to stop something like that. And I was just quoting the Environmental Impact Assessment Regulation, which says that for all golf courses with related buildings, this regulation should be made, a mandatory assessment of the impact of environmental interventions should be made to see if it is in line with the environment above all if we care about the environment and then other things. So what you're saying if you're implying some illegal activity here I'm simply asking you to say that it doesn't turn out that anyone here in the Croatian Parliament is protecting someone who doesn't enforce the laws. So if we're talking about us from the SDP, we're not the first to do it. So, we don't know who you're talking about, so let's go public and let's hear it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83315	Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83316	Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83317	And we could stop. Time's up. Thank you very much. Replica response, Honored Representative Zoran Vasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83318	Dear counterpart Bačić, I can only partially understand your concern, for the simple reason we question the position of the minister, the work of the minister of anyone who is in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in this case Minister Jakovina, he stands before us here in the Croatian Parliament, in front of representatives, sitting in front of the entire Croatian public. I don't see why we and Priors would think that his explicitly positive opinion if he and then can go on investing further, why not trust him, so why would they think that man does not represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, there are, in addition to this law, a series of laws that I have counted in the debate, there are others, and there are sublegal acts, so not everything is defined by this Forest Act. When you talk about forest care, absolutely about forest protection we should take care of everyone, but in the debate in the first reading I presented the data that actually the area under the woods is increasing year after year. So when we look from that base, at that level, we have no reason to worry because it is the forest experts who are trained to take care of forests and to master and manage forests in the best way possible. So they're the same people, so to speak or by the same eardrums, they've been working backwards for hundreds of years. Look, and now he remembers what the forest experts raised 100 or 140 years ago an oak tree. So why should we be the ones who should suspect their work before or why younger colleagues of us should doubt those of us who work today and raise and grow forests today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83319	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83320	Thank you very much. A fellow Vasic, by chance or not, showed a documentary on Croatian television yesterday about the concreteisation of the Spanish coast, with the construction of dozens of golf courses which had also been forest land or forests before. I don't know if you've seen that movie or not. It's something that's scary to look at. If we go along with this example, Croatia is a model for Spain, so a dead soulless settlement with several thousand apartments, and next to them every house has a pool, and next to them a large golf course that was created on forest land and in the area of forests that were much less rare in Spain than in Croatia. So this cost-effectiveness, this tourism that you're talking about won't do Croatia any good. Here and there... how many players there are and how many games and how many times a year these people come to the golf course competition. And do you know how much water is spent on maintaining the golf course? Those 200 golf courses in Spain consume water as 16 million inhabitants. That's what the documentary said. So do you think that forest land that is in forest property, etc., is noise if you bring in gas, electricity, water, sewerage, draining and all other infrastructure facilities in these camps and golf courses. It's never gonna be a forest again. So why are you fooling us here? If you need to invest in strategic investment, say that's how it is, vote on Friday, don't torture us here with discussions that don't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83321	Thank you very much. Do we seem to have an answer to the replica? It is. Here's your colleague Vasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83322	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Grubisic, of course, is entitled to his opinion. I appreciate your opinion above all else. I'm afraid I didn't watch it on television yesterday because we had a session... Well, it's a shame that now that you've told me this, I was the only part you could have created a picture in your head. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I mean, we had a meeting of the counseling club, so I wasn't there for the TV, and I couldn't see it. However, I want to tell you this. I don't know whether or not this kind of debate took place 10 or 14 years ago when the highway was being built towards Split. So for the purpose of building the highway cut down 1600 acres of forest. Forest experts, I said that in the debate for first reading, have raised more than so many new surfaces under the woods. But I also know that I am not from like and that part of the Republic of Croatia, but I know well the story that this part of the Republic of Croatia has developed more than just because of the passage of the highway through that area and the opening of that part of the Republic of Croatia. So why am I telling you this? I'm telling you this because we absolutely need to take care of environmental protection and forest protection, but we also need to take care of development because there is no future without development. We can decide whether we will protect everything and what one colleague said may live as natives or find a compromise between one and the other and have quality protection of the environment and nature and have development. I think we can have it with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83323	Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83324	Thank you very much. My colleague Vasic, if you had tried to justify this bill for any other reason, I would not have responded, and when you said you would have tried to justify this proposal with economic reasons, then I must react. You said this bill would enable the construction of the golf course and thus increase the competitiveness of tourism and thus Croatian economies. There is no country in the world that has come out of the crisis by building a golf course. No country in the world is based on its economic activity on golf courses. And comparing the construction of infrastructure with golf courses seems to me... And how many laws have been passed here only over the last two and a half years has been written by a hundred who have been justified for improving economic activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We wouldn't be in charge of 50 billion kuna in two years, but we would pay 20 billion kuna as the laws were represented. From the aspect of the national economy, one factory that produces finished products or spare parts for export uses national economy more for first construction than a thousand golf courses. And such factories should also cut down forests and tear down hills and build water and drain system and give free energy consent and release municipal contributions but never golf courses. And who do we connect to and you wondered who builds a law like this? Surely such a law cannot be represented by those who care about the Croatian future. But all people who participate in the making of these laws connect only two words, and they are known in the economy as homoeconomicus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83325	Replica response, Honored Representative Zoran Vasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83326	My colleague Maric, of course, I am not an expert in any kind of economy like you, so what I said was just on the surface level of the economy. At this point, however, we are talking about the Law on Forests, we are not talking about an industrialisation strategy or something else. So, as far as this part of the construction of golf courses and camps is concerned, and perhaps with this relief or liberalisation of legal provisions, it should be possible to build more and easier golf courses. Look, I can't figure out how it's possible that one Austria has a 151 golf course, that one Italy has 278 golf courses, Spain 352. So here we are in the Mediterranean, there's a country that fights them for primate in tourism and that we can agree to that and say that, our six golf courses is enough for tourism facilities to develop tourism. Surely this will not first and foremost draw the economy of the Republic of Croatia from the crisis, but should contribute or hope to contribute to new investment and further development. Well, look, say the right argument why not. After all, I remind you of what I said here that the Tourism Development Strategy was adopted without a single vote against. The tourism development strategy is currently talking about the need for Croatia to build a number of golf courses by 2020. Austria has a tourism revenue of 22 billion euros annually. I'm sure it's a good part because of the golf course. So, not significantly, but that the good part is safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83327	A new replica, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83328	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you mentioned the right of farmers to serve from 2004 to 2013 and I would be a little bit above your debate because I would specifically mention our winemakers in Dalmatia, but also in all of Croatia, who because we do not have this law in this way are not able to use the right of service they now have to raise several years of crops to expand their crops by using more than 90% of the European funds, European funds and can't even use the right to build on forest land at this time. And because of that, what someone said was no use to economics, we have damages both in tourism and agriculture because we do not have this law and have the possibility of either using funds to further expand, nor to be able to do I will not tell winemakers but to expand and do wine production, which is production not only for tourism but also for export and it is certainly the brand of the Republic of Croatia and this law allows it to survive those who have obtained the right of service so far, that they are expanding and developing and hiring and that is one of the key things primarily good for winemakers. There's talk of golf all the time, and that's the key to survival. Because if they don't have a piece of paper that says that the land is agricultural, but forest, then he can't even get funding from the Ministry of Agriculture, let alone the European Union. And at the end of the day, it's not about the oak tree. It's not about the black pine. It's all the area of maquis that got the right of service.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83329	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Zoran Vasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83330	Comrade Gjurkovic, you're right and I agree with you. I purposely said that it was brought by governments from 2004 to 2013, so different governments from different coalitions. It was, therefore, one of the reasons for the adoption of such regulations was precisely because the areas under the vineyards were raised as much and as soon as possible by 2015 and by the time they joined the EU. We knew, therefore, that it would not be possible to raise new surfaces under the vineyards. And what you've said and so you're giving it an emphasis through these changes and additions to the law, and that's exactly what's important. Therefore, primary production especially in agriculture is at least profitable. Therefore, if it is possible for people who have raised permanent plantations, then whether the vineyards in these areas that are, above all, degradation stages and forests, if they succeed in building a taste, processing capacity, so their product and the value of their product is increasing and certainly going in the direction of economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83331	Thank you very much. We will still do the position and opinion of the HDZ Representatives Club and their representatives from the club, Branko Bačić and Djurdjic Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83332	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with an associate, an esteemed colleague and colleague. He presented his position on the draft law amending and supplementing the HDZ Forests Act during the first reading. Since the second reading, i.e. the final bill, is very little, almost slightly different from the proposal that was in the first reading, then it is clear that the position of the HDZ club is identical to what we said when we first read. What I would say immediately in the introduction, therefore, is that this law is, in fact, a confirmation that the Law on Strategic and Investment Projects as it was adopted in the Croatian Parliament does not have enough effect on the realisation of strategic and investment projects, but that a strategic investment project should be implemented to do what we said at the HDZ Club at the time when the Law on Strategic Investment Projects was passed, which is that it is necessary to enter into an amendment to each individual law. And if we're talking about the marine good and the Marine Good Act. If we're talking about the Agricultural Land Act, then the Agricultural Land Act. If we're talking about intervention in forest land and forests, then the forest law needs to be amended. So that the Strategic Investment Projects Act has regulated one protocol of state and government of the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of strategic investment projects, but it has not been able to solve anything in a measure and cannot solve anything without the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia having approached the gradual amendment of each individual law and so on of the Forests Act. What we at the club repeat, which is that we support strategic projects, investments in the Republic of Croatia that go after economic growth, to get out of the crisis, to get out of recession. In this respect, we also hold that Croatian forests and forest land must contribute to the construction of individual projects that are important and of interest to the Republic of Croatia. But what we do not support and what we hold is that, primarily, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry when proposing such laws should be taken into account about the protection of forests and forest land, and that protection should be defined through the provisions, the criteria that the law will establish when intervention occurs on forests and forest land and when certain forests are extracted from forest land from the forest-economic base. We can believe what Mr. Vasic was saying on behalf of the SDP club, which is that we suspect the minister would allow the deforestation of forests from forest land if that is not justified? We argue at the HDZ Club that there is no reason to doubt the minister's position but the law should prescribe and make a distinction when it is separated from the forest-economic base of the forest and forest land or the forest of high... forms, as I mentioned earlier, the oak of the watermelon on the one hand and when, for the purposes of the realization of a particular strategic investment project, it is isolated from the forest-economic base, for example, some forest land which has been devastated, which is in breach and which cannot contribute to social income in the way that some new strategic investment project will contribute to social income. Thus, this is the first and fundamental basis for such accession. The second reason is that this law should also be laid down for which forest and forest land can be detached from the forest-economic base at all. That should have been prescribed. It cannot be isolated from forest-economic grounds or forests and forest land for any purpose. Therefore, this must not be done regardless of what someone will say that this can happen only after you express the agreement of the Minister responsible for forestry affairs. That's not enough. It was necessary to write, prescribe for which purposes could not be isolated from forest and forest land, or perhaps better for which purposes could be separated from forest and forest land. In my view, this was better resolved in the existing law, the activities that can be carried out in order to separate forests and forest land for these needs. If the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry or the Government of the Republic of Croatia intended to speed up the procedure as the Minister also said in his introduction that this law was primarily adopted in order to speed up the process of detachment of forests and forest land from the forest-economic base, and then to speed up the implementation of a particular strategic investment project, then Mr. Ministers should, what the Government is doing, should amend the Law on Extortion, speed up the procedure through the Law on Extremation, and not this way, by means of the Law on Forests and Forest Land, avoid the absolute Law on Execution. In fact, this law enforcement on forest land has nothing to do with it anymore. So we have now prescribed that forest and forest land can be separated from forest-economic grounds even from land and forest owned by the Republic of Croatia, without establishing the interest of the Republic of Croatia. With this bill, we can implement any now difficult investment project in the Republic of Croatia, detached from the forest economy, and the basic forest and forest land without the Republic of Croatia determining whether there is any interest in the activity of the Republic of Croatia. And the more after that, then... as a state-owned body, it can sell forests and forest land because, with the agreement of the Minister, that space came out of the forest economic base. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And more in the sense that so far does not represent forest and forest land. I said in the reading process that this law simplifies, significantly simplifies, but I don't have time now, I'll probably do it later in an individual debate, significantly simplifys the privatisation process, sells forests owned by the Republic of Croatia, not Croatian forests as public enterprises, but forests owned by the Republic of Croatia. This is an important simplification that so far meant and so far was possible, but it meant establishing the interest of the Republic of Croatia on the one hand, and on the other hand, it was for certain projects for which the law was not prescribed in advance that of interest to the Republic of Croatia should have come to this Assembly, or the Government could have done so with the consent of two parent committees for spatial planning and economy. Here, I am in one part of how long it allows me to tell you why the Croatian Democratic Community Club is not for changing the Law on Forests in this form, as the Government has proposed and I believe that it was better for the government to go into systematic amendments to the law, i.e. the adoption of a new Law on Forests. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83333	Honorable representative Đurjica Sumrak, second part on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with an associate, whom we can only tell you are truly every time you are here when it comes to your law. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will continue the debate started by my colleague Bačić, but I will now publicly say neither Croatian people nor we in the HDZ club trust this government and there is no reason to believe both the Minister and his good intentions that this law was written for the sake of preserving the forest and everything else. So we don't believe and we won't support it. My colleague Bacic said several things in his introduction, which is why we will not support it. I'll continue and, of course, in the afternoon debate, we'll also elaborate. The discussions discussed that this law is in reality an excellent law that will trigger the economy. If that were so, all 151 MPs would sit here, but no one believes it, and we sitting here are trying to prove that it's not this law that only really can be called the Law on Golf Courses, but also the Law on Camps that we're not going to joke about last time in our first reading, the minister promised we'd get the Camping Law. Well, then, and that's why we can't get positive about this law because we don't know what the Camping Law says. And then someone called on the Republic of Austria, I would say, and I would agree with my colleague Bačić, that a series of laws should be regulated, harmonised and brought forward before the economy could be launched. As far as the Republic of Austria is concerned, they have the Law on Mountain Areas, there is a Law on Special State Care, these laws no longer exist. It is known exactly what is said about the Law on Mountain Areas, in which it is also stimulated, which means people living in mountainous areas, so under special conditions but they have special, special financial resources. So I will point out something else, the adoption of this law addresses the primary issue of deforestation or forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia from the forest economic area, respecting the needs of the Republic of Croatia for certain forest areas that would serve various investment projects and Croatia's development. This law did not recognise the difference between the forests of high breeding and the forest of debris. We will all agree that it is not the same to isolate oak forests and forest economic grounds and areas from the forest of debris. I'd like to say a few words about what this law says about the advisory service. Therefore, the advisory service will no longer issue an escort but will only monitor its publication. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. This means that the advisory service is transferring public authority to licensed persons through this bill, and what will it mean in practice? For example, on the basis of the applicable law, the forest owner, with the ownership list and a copy of the Katastrian plan, submitted an application for an escort in one of the 150 premises of the Croatian Forests, following the exit of the employees of the Croatian Forests on the ground, and an escort was issued on the basis of the requested forest owners. A whole process like the forest owner's about 80 kuna. How and how will this work in the future? Will that mean extra costs to the forest owners? What will be the principle of hiring licensed persons on the part of the advisory service for the performance of the evidence, the necessary evidence, the markings of wood or other forest products? I would like to remind you that the annual ethic in the forests of forest owners towards the forest economic base of the region of Croatia from 2006 to 2015 is 705,000 cubic ccs of wood varieties from private forests, which means the issue of severances for about 30,000 trucks, tractors throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We talked about private forest owners who are licensed to perform forest work, during the debate in the first reading of this law, warning of the possibility of creating a gray zone in the management of private forests because the possibility of performing forest works is opened to companies that own these same forests. I would still like to say or remind you because I do not have much time for the announced reorganisation or better to rationalise the Croatian forests in an open letter which was directed to the Croatian public by the Association of Veterans of the Croatian Forests, with us is the Assembly of the Croatian Forests and I would like to be briefed on plans for the restructuring of the company, so on the future of the Croatian Forest, on projection and profit in the coming periods. What am I saying that for? I've already mentioned how much wood mass it is, but did someone compare the costs of performing these works in the variant of doing it through licensed persons? Do we know what the structure of the cutting point is in 2013, which are projections for 2014-2020, which is the effect of having an FSC certificate, whether it is working on obtaining other certificates, etc.? It's opening up, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, a series of questions, and exactly what I was saying... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83335	Thank you very much. Now we stop, we take a break for lunch. We'll continue at 3 p.m. with signed replicas. It is next to the replica of the respected representative Srdjana Gjurkovic at the presentation of the respected representative Branko Bačić. And then in the debate we include club HNS and vice presidents of Dom Milorad Batinić. Thank you very much. Bon appetit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83336	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. It's the replicas. Srdjan Gjurkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83337	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bačić, you have supported, you have said that you support both the law strategically and the amendments to every law that is related to strategic investment, if I have understood correctly, but you are asking as your colleague, but I have replicated to you, in general, the functioning of this law and the protection of the forest at all, etc., etc. Therefore, the Strategic Investments Act, Article 17 on which you are often attached, clearly states that the legal validity of the demarcation of forests or forest land from the forest economic base provides the State's Attorney's Office and the transfer of ownership rights and the establishment of the right to build and establish the right of service, which means that, apart from the institutions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and other institutions of the Government, the Agency, the State's Attorney's Office gives legal validity to such contracts. It should also be pointed out that no strategic investment can be realised, it cannot even be reported unless it is in accordance with the spatial plan of the county, i.e. the municipality and the city. In order to be also in line and that this municipality and the city would make a decision to set, e.g. building land, which is the most interesting thing for our citizens when we are discussing re-uses, then it must be given back consent from and ministries, and it must be in line with the National Programme of Forestry or Strategy, etc. Therefore, the protection of any detachment and re-use of land is extremely, extremely important, important and above all not just dependent on the government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83338	Replication response, the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83339	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Gjurkovic, yes, I said that I support investment and strategic investment, but I did not say that I support the Law on Strategic Investment Projects, among other things, and for the reason I cited it because I believe that this law, whenever it goes to a scale and to a part of the forest, forest land, marine goods, water goods, roads, etc. Because... the proper amendments to the laws such as the Law on the Forests, etc., etc. So I'm saying he's down to one... behaviour of the state authorities and the government of the Republic of Croatia when an interested investor nominates and proposes his strategic, his project that should get the status of a strategic investment project. As far as DORH is concerned, there's some balls you've mixed up. So, the DORH, and otherwise, gives consent to contracts available to the property owned by the Republic of Croatia, and even when that is the case of establishing the right of construction, as is the case in part of this law when the right to build a camp and golf course is established, then indeed the DORH will set up, but I am here talking about that we, if it is adopted in the text as proposed, will then, without any additional procedure that has now been laid down by the Law on Authorization and the Law on Forests, the powers of the forest economic base forest and forest land owned by the Republic, be able to sell to interested investors without any restrictions that have been established, I have told the laws and which... Government, and in part this Parliament through its parent committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83340	A new replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83341	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Kola Bačić, if you claim to be able to sell, so without any further procedures, forests, forest land and forests, are you and are we fully aware of what is going to happen to Croatian forests and to say the relief of Croatia at all if the aim of this law continues, and it seems to me that the ultimate goal is actually to sell family silver or gold in some way, however you wish? So here's what we used to say and we were afraid it was right and so we started with the Croatian forests, whether it will continue with Croatian waters, we'll see about that, but there are some indications about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83342	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83343	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, I do not say what you have said, I am transferring what the law proposes, and that is that a significant absolute simple process of selling forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, and with you I agree that this is part of family silver and represents a special value, which is provided by the Constitution in Article 52 where forest and forest land is guaranteed as a space and wealth of economic and ecological interest for the Republic of Croatia on which the land of the Republic of Croatia has special care. So I say, and here I agree with you, we agree that this law will simplify the sale of forests and forest land. I didn't say it and I repeat that I said it clearly for the pay phone, I'm not talking about Croatian forests as a public enterprise, and if it's going to be a turn, we'll see it, I don't want to speculate about it, but about forest land and forests absolutely yes. I'm telling you that now with this bill of law forest land and forests are less protected than the rest of the land owned by the Republic of Croatia, be careful this is very important. Because now that some project which, for example, the city of Osijek or some other town of Slavonski Brod wants to be realised on the territory and land owned by the Republic of Croatia, which are not forests and forest land, it will have to therefore the city of Osijek will have to go into the process of determining the interest of the Republic of Croatia and will then be able to dispose of it, and if it is immediately in the immediate neighbourhood of that land owned by the Republic of Croatia some forest or forest land it will be able to become the owner of that land without any procedure provided for the rest of the land owned by the Republic of Croatia, here is a significant difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83344	Replica, Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83345	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, distinguished colleagues, the twilight is your personal right, your democratic right to trust whoever you want and not to trust, but don't involve the Croatian people, let Croatian voters choose whom they will trust and whom they will not trust in democratic elections. As far as the law itself is concerned, I do not see any threat to the forest complex in Croatia, the Croatian Forests, on the contrary, this law primarily helps and facilitates units of local self-government in the rural area of Croatia, where you recognize the largest part of Croatian forests to dispose of their economic resources and not only for golf courses but for other tourist infrastructures, for camps, for cycling routes, for thematic routes, for all other tourist infrastructure located in that area and which is available there. And what's our alternative? So that we can make some sort of time capsule from the rural space to be visited by the urban residents of Croatia on the safari, is that what this goal is? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83346	The reply to the replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83347	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear colleague, it was very simple that my introduction was the second part of the exposure. Believe me, even the Croatian people don't trust this government anymore, they don't. Everything this government has done in 2.5 years, it's done by half, so it's back or it's better, so I'd say it's the law. A lot of articles were written in the laws, and then the Constitutional Court had already annulled it several times. But as far as we're concerned, if this law wasn't just about golf and camp, but if it had another function, I told you it would be very good if we had a new forest law, it would be very good to have today's changes to the Forest Act, let's say, in connection with this winter disaster in Gorski Kotar, so let's see how we're going to renovate the forests, along with the profession of course that I greatly appreciate. Exceptional because indeed the tradition of Croatian forestry is recognized and famous throughout the world. And you know if we were to discuss strategic projects here today, so it's them and golf courses I don't know any other ones, but if we knew we were talking about strategic golf projects or something else in some area, we could talk about it here today. But when you say something like that under the grain as you would say, then such laws trigger simple mistrust.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83348	Replica, dear Igor Chešek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83349	Thank you, dear Vice President. In your debate, you spoke about the camp law and practically legalising camps, that in the spring or 4 months ago we had the first reading of this law when we agreed almost simply to legalise these 30 camps in the area of the Republic of Croatia just before the start of the tourist season so that they could get all the stormy infrastructure and that our guests would not have problems with that infrastructure. However, at that time, the legislator of this law said that this law must be made by emergency procedure, today we see that there is a second reading, although we have mentioned that it is necessary to go into a completely new draft of this law. The same in their explanation they said would increase strategic investment in the Republic of Croatia. Is it building a golf course, is it a big strategic investment for the Republic of Croatia? I believe not. The Croatian coast will certainly devastation. I could consider it to be big strategic investments if that forest that comes up for the construction of golf courses if it were to be produced, or produced furniture that will be installed in the facilities that will be along that golf course I could consider to be a strategic investment. If we were to produce, say, tennis shoes in our Borov crash that will be used by golfers. If Končar were to produce a golf cart on such grounds. But here I am afraid that only tourists or those who are visitors to these golf courses will use our water and air for free.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83350	The answer to the replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83351	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. And dear colleague, yes, I agree with your replica, and what we are doing here today in reality. That's what you're talking about now, and we're discussing the detachment of forest land from the forest-economic base of the Republic of Croatia to put wind in the back of some unknown investors. So I also think that today we should discuss investments in the management of Croatian forests, the preservation of a national resource that indirectly means providing opportunities for employment in activities from tourism, agriculture and wood industry which is somewhere around 65% of its production, so it is exporting. And that you're right about that we should talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83352	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club, the Honored Vice President of the House, Milorad Batinic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83353	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, ministers and assistant. The Club of the Croatian People's Party will support the Law on Forests, Amendments and Supplements in the second reading as well as in the first. I didn't mean to talk much, more or less all we had to say was in the first reading. However, he wanted to look back on, in part, what this law will ultimately define, even if we have some time left and some debates between colleagues and colleagues. In fact, more or less what has already been said many times, so now the issue of forests and forest land is being arranged, the possibility in the forests of special purposes is being arranged. It was often left out in the debate. So for the possibility of building a golf course or camp, and again to mention that they are defined by a spatial plan, a special purpose forest management program. So there are several levels of checks that would happen by no chance what is said and often mentioned the thesis of the destruction of the forest, the removal of the grains etc.. What is also important and corrected is one I would say even a professional error which was committed in 2010 when the advisory service was abolished, now it is returning in another form that I believe and given the European perspectives, especially as regards the 2014 and 2020 budget, that it is united in the advisory service together with other parts that are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. And what's crucial where I see a huge role in the advisory service is in attracting funds from funds, so those who define rural development. And always a controversial OKFŠ, generally useful forest functions, isolating into a special account that will be controlled directly by the ministry even though the KEFŠ funds have been allocated to a special account but the Croatian Forests. And I think it is also that this, which is special, means forming a special account under the supervision of the ministry will also commend all colleagues in the Croatian forests because they have been frequently and unwarrantedly called and for the unintended spending of these funds, even though most of the situation as regards the KEFŠ since these means of purpose were spent on purpose, perhaps in size and volume they may have made a little bit of a negative step somewhere but in general I think they can be satisfied with that. On the trail of all this to repeat, we will uphold the law. Now I'd like to look back on my colleagues' debates. Namely, these more difficult forest protections were the most mentioned word. I think I also understand the concerns of colleagues and colleagues who discussed, but in the Croatian state there is a trade society in the Croatian forest. I think there's about 8,000 employees somewhere, maybe a number of something less or more. In its composition of professional staff, it means from graduate engineers, magistrates, doctor of science somewhere over 1300 of all profiles not only of the foresters. And it's more than a qualified number of people with all those employees from a simple forest worker, a cutter, a technician on the side that keeps care and protects and formally and physically conduct forest protection. So, colleagues and colleagues, don't worry about it, the employees of the Croatian Forests and in the vast majority the citizens of the Republic of Croatia themselves are concerned. What was also mentioned was the devastation, which implies a permanent reduction in forest surfaces. Do you have any idea how much greater the growth of the forest is than 20 years ago? I believe the assistant minister knows the exact information, and according to some estimates, I think it's about 400 to 500 thousand acres. Of course, this is not the result of the reforestation, the planting, the setting up of new ingredients, it is one negative, one negative reflection of bad, in a literal sense of poor non-consistent agricultural policy in the last 20 years. The natural succession has done its part and this is more the role of the advisory service to function again and again and, of course, in agreement with the owners themselves, take care of that part of the surface. They are catastrian agriculturals, but they are grown by forest trees. One thesis says will be able to sell forests without any restrictions, and what has been disabled under the old law. That's weird. So we go back to those discussions that can always be heard when it comes to interesting topics, or those that can be spoken of in such a way. In fact, neither the old law has protected the forest more than this, nor will it protect this one from the previous one, nor has it been possible under that law that what is forbidden under this law or is disabled by this which was permitted under that law. Comrades and colleagues, from the perspective of investors of this amendment to the law, perhaps the minister will not agree with me, he puts on another step, another extra fuse in the sense that I would dare to show myself perhaps the evil intentions that someone may have and aspirant some on our forests. So it provides additional protection in the context of the discussions that were held in this House. A potential investor that's an extra not cost but one step, two, maybe even more he has to do. The new law that, in my first reading, I was also saying that with all these changes that were during and these last and these now to come, the minister was tasked with making a new forest law. I'll repeat what I said in my first reading. It is not only the case with the Law on Forests but also with a number of other laws which have practically received elements and sublaws, regulations or even parts of the Regulations. It should be done in a way to clarify these laws, simply to enter certain articles into the Regulation. Why am I saying that? So that's what I'm saying just because the climate in the Republic of Croatia's 20 years in that part of the negativity that we've made one, too, too many complicated laws we have. I will repeat, the Law on Forests that have European countries looking at the content, not only by the number of members but also by the matter they define and which they regulate, is half as thin, shorter, yet still not left out by the essence and intensity of the law... is a function. It's the minister's job. It is not simple, it will not be easy, but there are a team of people who can do it and of course there is a chamber of engineers and technicians, there is an expert team in the Croatian forests and I believe that it will succeed in the next 8 to 10 months which is a real time to start now, to get a new forest law. That's my thinking and my recommendation. Often mentioned golf courses, well camps, I would just like to remind you, namely as likely and all of us have come up with a series of suggestions, a series of thinking, so I asked for help and a memo I sent to see at all how many camps there are right now, how many golf courses are on the forest land of the Republic of Croatia. So let's say the Split Forest Administration, meaning the autocamp in the forest and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, there are several at 30 hectares, in Istria 437 hectares. Golf courses, meaning the area that has been isolated from the forest-economic area, which will not be the case now, and I commend both the minister and the team of people who predicted that there is no separation for the golf course from the forest-economic base area of 315 hectares, and that was years ago, not for the mandate of this government. Not for the term of office of this government. So let's not be afraid of our colleague and colleagues that there will be a robbery of the Croatian forests. What is the foundation of forestry for every generation of foresters and for us as citizens of the Republic of Croatia, forests are entrusted not to management and management. They must have economic sustainability in that part of the economic segment of the forest, but also let's not forget that it's only 50 and maybe which, 2-3 percent of the economic forest of the total of 2 million and 300 and some thousand hectares. The rest are protected forests, special purpose forests which are not intended for economic purposes. And let's also not ignore those 53-54 percent of forests that have an economic purpose of being profitable. What does rentability mean? Costs of exploitation, investments are far greater than financial pleasure through wood mass. So these are some basic starting points when you talk from this pay phone about bad forest management, about bad moves within the Croatian forests. I remember '92. The years when it started to talk, I remember for a long time, when the restructuring of the Croatian forests began. Then was the forest waist of the point of view we have priority, liberation, Homeland War, '95, '96. It started with that. Until today, we've paid all kinds of consultants. Unfortunately, it was those consultants from that joke, no one called him. He came in, told us what we know and we know and, of course, he missed... And to their own mind, to their own profession, in whose name many now speak and represent, there was no room for him to say anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To this day, no restructuring of the Croatian forests has been made. We've had three or four attempts. And what happened after every attempt? An even worse situation in the Croatian forest company itself. But it encourages that it did not affect that professional part of the forest management. Every year, every year the principal increases because it cuts less than growth. I don't know now the exact information regarding these damages in the Gorski kotar, it was terrible to see, terrible even certain localities. However, I have information not with the tax data that the assessment was made, that the measurement was made. But just as they know and colleagues I will repeat for your sake to resuscitate it won't be possible so quickly, so easily, so slowly and let's not expect financial positive effects from that recovery. Not a single recovery as much as you take... Wood mass, whether through technique, you can't use that maximum through the heating tree as in regular exploitation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mostly that'll be the cost. And to conclude, the Croatian People's Party will support amendments to the Law on Forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83354	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First of all, the esteemed Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83355	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vice President, two things. Here, given the time, I can replicate it for you. The first part in which you say that additional protection when detached from the forest economic area or base is however we want it to be is the fact that it could be singled out for the purpose of building a golf course or camp is also the procedure envisaged under the specific purpose scheme. And I could even accept that, no matter what I think, neither golf, and even less camp represents a forest of special purpose. I'll discuss it more later during an individual debate. But here we're talking about everything else not only about camp and golf, but I'm in my presentation, I think that's what you're talking about, and I think you're talking about now, based on a spatial plan, it can be directly isolated from the forest-economic area of the forest and forest land regardless of the purpose that the spatial plan provides. That's not good. That's what I said there must be certain restrictions for that. And the other thing, you're saying, I said, and you probably replicated that this law makes the process of selling forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia simple until the end, and then you semimise the old law, the new law. It's true, I don't have time for that either. So the old law also made it possible, it is not a disputed sale but it was known for what purposes, prescribed by the Law on Forests on the one hand. On the other hand, what is happening and what is the procedure provided for by the Law on Execution, and then the parliamentary committee, etc., was involved for such sale in addition to the Ministry of Justice, etc. In that sense, there is a significant difference. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83356	The replica corresponds to the respected vice president of Dom Milorad Batinić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83357	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you have, you were in that position, in that position. You are very well aware of the procedure of adoption, approval, spatial plans and how long this procedure takes. It's not because we'd like to do it or make it, but it's simply a procedure to start from a settlement, a local committee, etc. etc. It's just amazing, I've had experience, I've been directly involved and directly involved in making and as a forest manager and from the younger days, so I know very well how much it was, how much increased anything has been put into question when the County Assembly allowed deforestation for some purpose, how many times it analyzed whether or not. Now we've got everything set up regulatoryly. But we can't get past the procedure of making spatial plans. So, as head of local self-government, as councilman, would you allow the adoption of a spatial plan I don't know what's going on? Of course not. So we have to have strategic documents that define what and how we can. One of the key strategic documents is the spatial plan. So I don't have that, personally I don't have that dilemma, I don't have that doubt about what I'm saying. I just can't agree with you on that. So I'm saying a spatial plan, we know very well what the procedure is, and then it's no longer an accident, but it would be intentional, and I want to positively read legal acts and intentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83358	A new replica, the gnome of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83359	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Personally, I really appreciate you as the mayor of a beautiful little town, but also as an engineer of forestry. And I think you're really in good faith when you're talking, you're talking about all this, but I also think that, given the coalition partner, you have to support this law. The first problem is that we, the esteemed Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, have not had strategic documents for 2.5 years and we cannot rely on either of these or on a number of other laws that have come to any of the strategic documents adopted by this Government. The other thing you mentioned was the advisory service. Now, I don't know what this is about, reorganization or centralization, what? I don't know. All I know is that 29 people have gone from the Croatian Forests to the advisory service, all I know is that some powers have been given to them and under this law have been taken away from them and all I know is that the advisory service will transfer public authority in this law to licensed performers, which would mean some private persons. Now, if you really think that these 29 people who came out of the composition of the Croatian forests will, therefore, no longer do it themselves, but they will transfer all their work to a private company. Whose? That's not what I'm getting into. Or that he would use consultants. Yes, unfortunately these consultants have been walking to Croatia for 2.5 years, taking huge money, and we really did say we don't rely on our minds, on our young people, on our doctors of science who unfortunately leave this Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83360	The replica corresponds to the vice president of House Mr Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83361	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We don't have strategic documents, but we haven't had them in 20 years. As far as the advisory service is concerned, 29 people, I agree. However, if we read what their role is in the literal sense of the word advisory and I listened to you in the debate when you said the issue of accompanying documents, marking the trees for cutting, yes. It's a science fiction that those 29 people can do it. But it also says that a job can be entrusted to a licensed one, meaning to our fellow graduate forestry engineers who have the authority of the Forest Chamber that they can do that job. This work in the phase of the restructuring of Croatian forests, which I also sent as a forest manager in 2003 a proposal for the area of the former forest economy of Varazdin how to rationalise the relationship that created the surplus. If we're going to restructure the company that way and that way you have extra people. These people then do business in private woods. And I guarantee you that if you were to have half a million acres of private forests, when you look at the label that's planned for all breeding work, it means everything that licensed persons should do, the lack of graduate forestry engineers in the Republic of Croatia. If you add Croatian forests, works in private forests past these advisers who have crossed over. However, forestry is a seasonal job, and for this reason it is a much more rational advisory function in one place, and people do jobs according to the season. You can't go snow-sniffing trees. I mean, it's more or less clear to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83362	A new replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83363	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vice-President Batinić, you were talking about saying, to some extent, two types of forest, i.e. the forest area in the Republic of Croatia, which is approximately 50% of the entire Republic of Croatia, so you distributed the forests to those who have an economic purpose and they are about 53 to 55% and to the protection forests that are approximately 45%, these are the edges of the forest surface. So you said that these 53% of all businesses are inconclusive, about the same way. But you forgot to say, therefore, by defending in fact your position to vote for this law, because there are also these forests that are in economic function, and business is inconclusive and it has a basis for giving these forests and their area of strategic investment. But you didn't say there was a general function of the forest, that the forests are the lungs of humanity, the lungs of civilization. And a number of others to say here may be missing Mirela Holly to tell us what these are all functions of the forest except this one to say economic purposes and forest management and wood mass etc. Yeah. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83364	Replica reply, Vice President of Dom Milorad Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83365	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, colleagues Grubisic are 54% per area of the economic forest, and the rest are protected forests, special purpose forests for a particular purpose, meaning defined by the programmes. Of course not, either you misunderstood me or in order to replicate you maliciously interpreted, so it doesn't make sense when I'm talking about those 54% of the economic forest whose purpose is the economy, means achieving through the management and making income that one large percentage of the non-performable in terms of economic viability. So the entry costs are far higher than the producer's price. I think it's more or less clear to everyone. By realizing that the cost of biological propagation of the forest was simply once classified as a cost, but it was an investment, a bookkeeping issue. Now look at the data of this damage that's in the Gorski kotar, and when you look at the ingredients that got hurt, what I was saying. To the most extent by statistics, I don't have very confirmed data can the minister or assistant comment, are younger ingredients. If there is no technical wood left in the structure of the blade layer, any level of cutting is inert, you produce loss. So it's got to be at least 35 to 40 percent on the net mass of the technical halves in order for your cut to be profitable, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83366	And the last replica, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83367	Dear counterpart Batinić, the esteemed Vice President, so you said in your debate that we should not be afraid for the future of Croatian forests. Looking at us here as parliamentary representatives and MPs and perhaps even the very knowledge of Croatian forests might be believed. But here I read an open letter to the Croatian public sent by the Association of Volunteers, veterans of the Homeland War of the Croatian Forests 10.5.2014. Their first sentence says "The Croatian forests have fear, people fear for their future, for their jobs. Our association gathers 2,168 members" and then lists why they fear for the future of Croatian forests. So if you ignore something that we know or don't know, do we have the right to ignore what they know means those who do. And they warn that society is working with profits but that it is still constantly considering the layoffs of especially those who work for a certain period of time, and it is returning them again to avoid pay supplements. The issue of centralisation, why is everything in Zagreb when Croatian forests have almost every corner of our beautiful country. Why are you constantly talking to OKFŠ as a parafiscal intrusion when they claim that everything is invested where it should be invested. Why was there a privatisation of the resort? Are we going to remind us of that strange public tender where 136 apartments were rented, almost 600 beds at the price of 8 kuna a day. Where do these people rest? Why does everything work on workers' expense when that company has a particular social component? So these are their observations, not our parliamentary representatives, and it's in the light of this law. So if everything is so ideal that these 2,168 members of this association, and everyone works in the Croatian forests at all, they also mention the professional equipment of the one who runs them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83368	The replica corresponds to the vice president of the House, Mr Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83369	Thank you, Vice President. Namely, fellow Boric, you are replicating me, the answers to these questions are far more competent minister and president of the Croatian Forests Administration. I can only convey my own experience when I was talking about the restructuring phases behind your governments how many times it went into restructuring just caring. And your governments knew what they wanted. So they want a company that's going to be high-quality, rational, that's going to do business with profit, which is ultimately the goal, regardless of what I was talking about before, the rentability of the cut, that's the goal of everyone, every government. However, your governments have reached one level and you have simply stopped. You didn't have what I'd be told in Zagorje busts to take a step further. Of course, if you want to restructure any resolution, you have to cause a wave of resistance, that's this, plus the political context, that we understand each other. I can take that as legitimate. OKFŠ, a parafiscal imposition that, yes, and the fact is, but also let's not ignore that in coastal forests, so that's the 40 and some percent where it's been mastered, but in what way? The assistant will understand, gardening in maquis, squis and loins, literally gardening, throwing money needlessly, unnecessarily for growth and cultivation. It's just like that. As far as some of your allegations are concerned, I'm saying that the minister will pass it on to the President of the Croatian Forests Administration, and as far as the resort is concerned, as mayor, we have units of local self-government owned resorts and we can't rent it, but we can entrust it to the company registered for that. Where will my employees rest? Well, that's their thing, same as the Croatian forest thing. I, too, worked as an employee for those resorts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83370	On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected representative Boro Grubisic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83371	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with an associate. After this long debate what else to say about the forest law? We may have expected something else, according to the very title of this bill, some other topic. But what you see here and what's in most of the text and articles of this law is actually solving what we had here a few years ago, and now the situation has turned around. Then Mr. Sanader proposed the Law on Golf Courses and Golfes, so this side was very anti-against what they say in some novels by Branko Copic, and now this side is anti-reversible. But joke aside, we must say something about our Croatian forests. I will never be clear here by reason of our second vice president that taking advantage of these economic and economic forests that cover 55% of all forests in the Republic of Croatia, so those who have an economic and economic purpose, there is inability to operate in these forests. I really don't understand that forests like forests that no one wateres, nobody plows, digs, manure, etc. and that it is inconclusive to exploit these forests, that more expensive must be fuel, workers, clear officials of the Croatian Forests, their salaries and the rest of the wood mass value and later the process of exploiting that tree. I'll never get that, never, can anyone say what they want here. I will not speak of protective forests and forests for special purposes here. But when we look at our Slavonia, a gentleman on the phone told me that it was unimaginable for him to be 15 or 20 acres of spazva because of the strategic investment to be substituted to the golf course, that it was the end of Spačva and the spa forest as a whole. So also applies to the forest of Radinje in our county, Mr. Minister, in Brod-Posavina, or to the forest Prašnik, or to Papuk up in central Slavonia or to some other forest. Which means destroying or repurposeing the forest, which means not only reducing the forest mass, that is, the ecological part of oxygen generation, but reducing carbon dioxide in the air, but also erosion of soil and soil erosion that is visible on all land on which the forest is unearthed. Go down the road, let's say like and Dalmatia, and we'll see those surfaces where the forest is hatched as beautiful beneath it slowly sees the stone. Now, yesterday at HRT 3, I said by accident or not, there was a show about Spain and golf courses in Spain that were built about 200 in favour of big investors, in favour of golfers, whether golfers are riding again as well as at the time of Ivo Sanader, then riding on that government to enable them to invest large golf courses, it will save us both tourism and all, it's a terrible thing, it's a patent that is here, now this government invents it even though it was about that patent and it was the government that was previously in power, that golf courses will be a rescue for the Croatian economy and especially for Croatian tourism. That's ridiculous. Camps also say golf courses, in camps and golf courses that will then continue to be forest land, they will not change, they are still forest land but will have a water supply, sewerage, gas, electricity and everything possible, road, and all possible infrastructure in that area where these golf courses and camps are. To bring that infrastructure to those places at all, you need to clear the forest, so to get to it, let alone distribute for every hole of light, etc. conduct all-powerful installations. There's no more forest, it's over. So, my neighbor who works in the Croatian forests tells me well, that if God does not give any concessions to those in Spačva, or not to concession, but to sell the forest land of Spačva, there is nothing left of Spačva. It would be better to disappear because of the construction of the Danube-Sava channel than because of the construction, and where your investors are, it's still the biggest procedure that can exist, no one mentions it. And we know that the level of the Danube at normal waterway is 5 meters lower than Sava, so in the case of this Sava water condition as it was this year, 5 meters of water could go to the Danube via the Danube-Sava channel. And again in a few years, we'll have floods in this area because again, the dikes may not last, and then what are we going to say? Golf courses may receive water, a major strategic investment. Now, I think this is about one more time, I'm not going to tell the cluster or, as Marić says, homoeconomy, those two words, but a group that represses somehow the Croatian government and everything in terms, and everything within the so-called globalisation, in fact, colonization of some countries, hence Croatia. Globalisation is another one for colonization, or neocolonalism, and that's what we've seen. And what happens in Spain from those 200 playgrounds? Staring empty and spending the water that 16 million people in Spain spend each year, they spend as much water. If here in this legislative proposal it were said that permission would be given to build camps or golf courses on the surfaces that are, let's say degraded or devastated forest surfaces, so there would have to be what Bačić says, criteria that would be acceptable not to destroy that forest, to say the first category, or as someone said here, then the forest that has an economic, economic value, but rather the one that is semi-max or I don't know what. Then yes, then perhaps we could say that there is both good will and good intention to have such land that it is, neither forest nor forest, let me put it that way, bring some economic, economic or other purpose. As it is said, without any additional procedure, we will be able to sell forests and forest land around, bypassing the specifics we signed with the EU when we join that there is a moratorium for the sale of agricultural and forest land for 7 years. 7 years means by 2020 if a foreign investor shows up we allow this law to enter the forest area, and we have signed that 7 years will be a moratorium, right? I don't know. We'll hear it from the minister. It's true that we cry out for investment, yes, maybe it's a golf course investment, maybe it's an investment camp, but I'd rather expect or want this government to have some other investment, that we have investments that will remain so-called. value added, some kind of production investment. There have been such offers, they have passed and passed Croatia for various reasons or not to find this government, or because of only test balloons that have been released both towards Qatar and Azerbaijan, and I do not know where not everything is going, but unfortunately these investments have not come true. Similarly, as I said with the forest in Radinje or the forest Prašnik or Spačva or Papuk or the chestnut forests, only the chestnut forests in Zrinjska gora here on the soft belly of Croatia where there are almost no inhabitants, I am convinced that there will be interested investors and for those areas where there are almost no inhabitants which, let me say, given the beauty of the landscape and given those forests which are almost exclusively chestnuts, pito chestnuts, will be interested there. It would be a shame to destroy Zrinska Gora, as well as these forests I counted in Slavonia or give to investors so many surfaces that in fact this forest will no longer be the real forest such as Spačva, Radinje, Prašnik, etc. And so, in forests and mountains, we'll be able to replace that song by camps and golf courses, whether it's going to be a sequel to that song, we'll see that we're still going to have elections, but in any case, the HDSSB club, as it was against that law that the former government proposed to the Croatian National Golf Course, so it won't be for this one, nor for this bill as we were for the one in the first reading. About the fact that we should not be afraid of the assurances that we have in this, there was a Vice-President of the Parliament, so I don't think I was when the minister put out, that we should not be afraid of irregularities, etc., I think that Croats are smoking and cold and have a lot of right to blow in the cold, given everything that has happened in recent years and with legislative proposals that have been proposed, rejected, downloaded from the agenda, one strategy plan, the other has no strategy, there is no, I don't think that Croats have the right to trust this government and according to this legislative proposal because this bill is actually going slowly and in this first way or first step actually goes into the sale of Croatian national wealth, and these are primarily Croatian waters. And the law is being prepared, they also say about, excuse the Croatian forests, and the Law on Croatian Waters is being prepared, on the reduction of the number of enterprises, those water and other things that will once again introduce the possibility and privatisation of Croatian Waters, and when we sell these two out, and what we have left, then we are truly globalized completely and in fact, roughly, therefore this word is also thrown out of use, colonized. Yeah, we're colonized and we're already in debt... and then by selling Croatian treasure we'll get into the position of the colony or as someone said bananas. Well, thank you very much. I won't use my time even though I have another 2.5 minutes, so I said what I meant.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83372	We have one replica, Ivica Mandic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83373	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Boro, your finding in the forests we characterized as economic forests is not correct and leads to the wrong conclusion. Although they are economic forests and so we lead them to the Republic of Croatia, we need to know that the forests are not for exploitation, that in the time that these forests grow, that certain interventions and forest professions and labour are needed to bring them into function of exploitation. And here it would certainly be good to mention that the Republic of Croatia is, 47% of its land area is covered by forests, of that part of 2 million and 160 thousand is state forests, and 581 thousand of these private forests. And what's important about the woods of business use, we're going to talk about golf here, we're not going to say that in the woods there are business intentions of national parks, reserves, forests that we use to produce seeds, so for new fruit material, that's what, they have to be the special qualities of those forests. Here we must, with laws like this affecting both the environment and nature conservation, lead a large dose of caution, but let's not be so skeptical of everything because here everything that is said in this law, it makes sense, it has a normal natural flow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83374	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83375	Thank you very much. My colleague Mandić, the tree is both apples and pears and cherries and plums, as the tree also has oak, lukek, blacks, oaks, and I don't know, beech, etc., grab, cher, I don't know what kind of wood is not there either. But let's tell me, and we know that you and I are from the same neighborhood, how much money and how much effort a man has to put into giving him an apple in relation to some oak shell or beech, etc. which grows in any area, either this protection or that economic one? That difference, that's what I was talking about, is huge, and when someone says they have losses on exporting logs and raw materials or selling them, and they just cut them down and put them on the side of the road, trucks are shipping, so it's really kind of weird and funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83376	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honorable Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83377	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm already in the morning and before noon as I spoke on behalf of the club pointing out certain indeterminations and things that I don't think are good at in this forest law and that were either to be arranged differently or that had no place in the Law of Amendments and additions to the Law of the Forests. They are, however, if this is an excuse for the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to continue the law already passed here in the Croatian Parliament, either the Law on Strategic Investment Projects on the one hand or on the other. And as when we passed the Law on Spatial Planning, even when this Assembly discussed the Law on Forests in the first reading, I will now repeat that it is from the aspect of the planners, so experts in spatial planning in construction and I believe in forestry unacceptable, that it can be isolated from the forest economic area of a particular space, i.e. forests and forest land, on that area to build camp and golf and to claim that it is still a forest. The fact that we called her a softer name, a special-name forest, is by no means a forest for me. Camping, a regulated camp in the Republic of Croatia, is also provided for by the Camp Sorting Regulation, nor is it the lowest category of organised camp any longer a forest but a building land. Where Article 2 of that Regulation on the classification of minimum conditions and the categorisation of accommodation facilities, camps and groups of campsites and other types of accommodation facilities determines which accommodation units, buildings, infrastructures contain one space and area and land on which the camp is built, it shall be clear that it cannot be a forest of special purpose or any other forest. It is exclusively a building area and it is an extremely equipped building area if it is spoken of as more class of classification camps. And to claim that golf course is also a forest of special purpose and does not make sure that an average golf course in the Republic of Croatia is about 50 hectares of land and that according to the law on that golf course it is possible to build 4% of the area, the construction of 4% is somewhere around 2 hectares. So every golf course has a minimum of 2 hectares of building and building land. And not to speak, for example, on that famous golf course, but a playground on Srdje where 310 hectares are area and where 10% of the building is allowed and where 240 villas are planned in the fourth phase. To claim that this isn't building land for me is either insufficient knowledge of the definition of building land or something else I don't want or want to speculate about. So, this step towards which camps and golf courses represent forests of special purpose and whether they remain on a forest economic basis and are determined by the right to build is a process that goes only to simplify the procedure to go on one side to protect the forest because it is still not building land, it remains in the forest economic base for me in no way holding water. That's what I don't see to be justified. When I talk about detachment from forest land, I said it, and it would be good if the minister denied it to me if I wasn't right. I argue that at this point, if this law is adopted in such a way that it will probably be adopted on Friday in such a text that it is better from the aspect of ownership protected land owned by the Republic of Croatia which is devastated, which is not particularly concerned by the Republic of Croatia in the Constitution than this law protects the forest and forest land that is separated from the forest-economic area. So, as long as it's in the forest-economic area, it's a property protected by this law, but the moment the spatial plan declares it a plot of some other building purpose, it's less protected than the rest of the building, the rest of the land owned by the Republic of Croatia. And we have prescribed by this Law that its availability is exclusively within the competence of the DUDI and that it no longer needs to be subject to an absolute implementation of the Law on Exemption than is available to the Central Authority of the State Administration of Real Estates owned by the Republic of Croatia. If the justification for what Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament has said is that a complex complex procedure for the adoption of a spatial plan is in place, and I agree with it and that it is good that we should welcome it, but why on other land covered by the spatial plan, we will not lead the extradition procedure in the territory of Croatian forests, or in the area of forests owned by the Republic of Croatia. So I agree that the spatial plan is a very important brake. But in the process of making a spatial plan for me as the owner of the land, no one contacts me directly, by calling for me to do something and to complain rather than having a public debate, if I happen to be in Australia, in Germany while the spatial plan is being passed by the train. And in the extradition procedure, I get contacted as the owner, I get invited, I have the right to conduct a procedure that is legal, to expect a fair fee, etc., etc. So it is very strong and good that such a procedure is to adopt a spatial plan, but it still does not necessarily come to the owner, but if it is found in a public debate that some spatial plan is being adopted, then it has the right to manifest itself. What I think by this law, I didn't hear today in the debate, that any of the foresters, and I'm not a forester, but I haven't heard any of the foresters comment on it, is, in my opinion, a reduction in the role, importance, powers and resources of the trade society of the Croatian forest. I think the solution is the existing according to which OKFŠ was the original and dedicated income of Croatian forests, that it was already through the institution, as Mr Batinić used to say, which has a large number of professionally invited persons for the protection and management of Croatian forests, that they have had the quality of these resources and that these funds have significantly helped to preserve the useful function of forests and forest land. In this way, when these funds are paid into a special account, and their schedule will be determined by the Minister of Special Regulation, I think we agree that the Croatian forest will never have as much funds as it had when it was directly their income. That I think is quite clear. We discussed it about 20 days ago, and that's good, although I don't know how happy the solutions are according to the law that will help flooded areas of Slavonia during June, but it would be good if this resolution ministry came out towards the Croatian Assembly with a proposal to resuscitate the forest and forest land in the Gorski Kotar that was destroyed during this winter. Because as I recall, it seems to me that the Mayor of Primorje-goranski was coming up with a draft bill that would help protect the forest in the Gorski Kotar, but I think that's what's left of it. Would that be a good solution that the mayor himself suggested I don't know, but perhaps it could come to the Assembly with one solution that would take care of that space, although the extent of the damage may not be compared, but given the area covered it certainly was a great damage to the residents of the Gorski Kotar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83378	We're moving on to replicas. First honoured Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83379	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you said it was not good for this law to redecorate land to forest building land. We remember well, not long ago, that the County of Dubrovnik-Neretva made one re-purpose of land to one of your colleagues who later found himself buying a lot more land than was drawn up in a spatial plan. Later the county wanted to correct it, a fol error in copying numbers or thousands of squares and it succeeded, but we eventually complained and the ministry annulled it in the first.... And as far as land is concerned, we all know how they are and how they gave land to use for re-use, that you are in good time... For 8 years, giving land, the former government, the ministry was giving land by rejecting the younger population, refusing agricultural cooperatives with 200 members,... giving to its obedient employees who knew how to take advantage of it. And the defenders who now swear their oaths to the defenders, they rejected them. So all the defenders were rejected, the locals were rejected, but you were doing it professionally. Not you personally, but the government and the ministry. Also, when we think of Lastov, here's... the inquiry of Chief Lastov and he's looking for when... that concession will be lifted on... we all know what it is... Eight years of farmland. [[/Microphone interrupts, you don't understand.]] What's done there, they've fine-opened the camp, the tourist section, and it's charged well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83380	Thank you. Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83381	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Marelić, I agree that there is a possibility that through the adoption of a spatial plan, private interests and interests, but I am a witness that such opportunities were not only in these examples that you pointed out, which, fortunately, were realised in the second degree as it should have been. But I can trust you now to list 50 cases where individual mayors, mayors and mayors have realised a number of private interests through spatial plans. Since, in my introduction, I said, in my presentation, that the procedure for adopting a spatial plan is quite demanding, it is quite subject to control, both the central state body for spatial planning and construction, and as we say to state institutions. I don't have any playing with what you're talking about today is subject to very effective and rapid sanctions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83382	Replica, the esteemed Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83383	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear colleague Bacic. In this speciality, and I greatly appreciate your knowledge and your steps but I would point out here again that in the procedure of making spatial plans, the procedure is very slow, very complex and almost everyone who is interested must give consent. Well, in that part, I'm not afraid there's gonna be a golf course every mile of it. Because if at the first step of the local self-government unit doesn't take it very seriously, it's very complicated. Furthermore, this is not about changing land just for sport and golf. Here is the question of re-use of land that is in agriculture and viticulture. Here is a question of over 30 camps located on forest land that, without this law, is almost impossible to legalize. And what is most important is that the terrain and the location are always owned by the Croatian forests. I understand your concern and we need everyone with a high dose of caution to follow it all. But I'm not afraid since the procedure is very demanding, very complex and you can't and the unit of local self-government and county and state inspection etc. etc. all put in the same basket to make it all together. Therefore, I think that this law is on track and that in the case of land re-use, agricultural producers who deal with winemaking and campsites will benefit, and besides, local self-government units, which is the goal of all of us. And keep that procedure under control and make it as easy as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83384	The replica matches the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83385	... Excuse me. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] [[Intruder Stazic: Microphone.]] So I'm not against golf, away from it. I'm not even against the camp. No one, I didn't say it in one word today. When it comes to golf and camp, I agree that it can be isolated from the forest-economic base and plan to build golf and camp. However, I am opposed to the fact that the law does not restrict the individual purposes that can be singled out, which can be realised in the area of forests and forest land, that the Law on the Forests does not have any fence, but leaves everything to the spatial plan. I'm against it. I think that the profession, the forest profession, the forestry ministry responsible for the affairs of forestry should have said in this Law that some purposes cannot be made, and especially that they cannot be found in the forests of high breeding. This law cannot pass, and in the same way it treats the forest of oak and some devastated land, maquis, low maquis, and this law is the same, it has the same approach. And what I don't agree with when it comes to golf and camp, that's what I told you. So, I support that you can, thank God. That's what's going on, and we've already got spread camps and golf courses on forest land. But I don't agree that the government has already adopted the law that camp is a forest. If something in the infrastructure sense was built to allow the catering activity to take place in the campsite and touristic area, then it must have built infrastructure And that law says it's not. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83386	The next replica, the gnome of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83387	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you mentioned damages in the Gorski Kotar. According to the data we received from the media, we received them somewhere in particular in the Croatian forests, for example, on their websites we have nothing published or related to it or related to this law. It's new now that you don't have to do anything. The damage amounts to around 292m euros, with us pulling out of the Solidarity Fund somewhere around 10m euros. That'll be waiting, of course. You said that Mr. Mayor Komadin had proposed some kind of damage recovery law. However, you forgot that he was no longer in mercy, and then there will be no further discussion. I'm not defending him, but unfortunately, political indifference sometimes reflects on some important issues in the country, which doesn't mean that his proposal was good. You see, a colleague, the European Union is already bringing in a new Development Strategy, a new one, and unfortunately our government has not yet received inspiration even to begin writing because I don't know what, no inspiration, no visions, and then today I ask you and you've answered in some way and I'm going to ask the Minister for sure he's going to talk to you, so for whom and why. Is it true today that everyone here who we are and the public professional, we're talking about this law regarding golf courses and camping. We know very well why, and I wonder why the question isn't solved. Some forest is run in the catastra, and in nature it is not, and in such areas there are very many camps. Well, the law could sort it out in a way, that would be shortening the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83388	The replica matches the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83389	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sumrak, next to the fence, with the fence that I may not have the knowledge until the end, that the government and the rest ministry are probably carrying out certain projects, activities, and Croatian forests at a recovery site damage on the Gorski Kotar forest fund. What seemed perfectly normal to me and what was expected was that in the Croatian Parliament, when we discussed the law that we are trying to execute the recovery and compensation for the flooded areas of Slavonia that this is one damage that is in the Gorski Kotar, which you said 300 million euros and which for the space of Gorski Kotar is terrible, large. That it was expected that a complex legal project would come to the Croatian Parliament and we would hear how and how to help that part of the Republic of Croatia and the inhabitants of the Mountain Kotar. As for the entry of the forest in the cataster on particles already built, etc., etc. I would only remind myself that I am sorry that the Law on the Treatment of Illegally Built Buildings, which this Government has proposed to the Assembly, and which has put aside the power of the 2011 Law, in which the compensation which is the revenue of the state budget, the legalisation of such buildings in large part was intended for the restoration of a catastrian apparatus, the making of a new cadastre and a land book, which assumes any over-development of the Republic of Croatia, the editing of the catasters and the land books, and there, according to that law, were compensations that were collected for legalising these buildings very potent in financial terms. And it could really make it possible in many parts of Croatia to make a new cadastrian apparatus and a new land book.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83390	The next replica, Honorable Vice President of Dom Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83391	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, my colleague Bačić, when you spoke about the separation of campsites and terrain, i.e. for golf from the forest-economic base of the area, i.e. to separate it from forest land, I would remind you of Article 3(2) of the general useful functions of the forest, so I will only count some, creating favourable conditions for human health, providing space for rest and recreation, conditioning the development of ecological, hunting and rural tourism. Namely, there are defined purposes and those common useful functions that the forest has. So, based on this, there is no need or basis for camping out and golf outside the base of the forest-economic base area. Furthermore, when you were talking about reducing the KEFSH funds, I'd just like to let you know, I hope you'll take my word for it, as far as the BOX is concerned. Yeah, the funds are down. I said they were mostly spent on purpose but not on the scale of what was necessary and necessary. In fact, certain forest administrations that are in the coastal area have been pumping themselves, i.e., they have produced a positive result based on fictitious funds withdrawal programmes from the EFSH. And what did they finance? Positive score and employee salary. That's the facts. You can confirm this in the chronology of the annual Croatian forest reports of individual forest administrations. When I was talking about rationalization, yes, such administrations need to be rationalized. And the fact is that certain administrations of this type cannot be self-financed because they do not have an economic forest. This OkFŠ will also be sufficient to spend, i.e. to invest in the biological propagation of forests, i.e. to restore forests in these areas. But not for wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83392	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83393	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vice President, first of all, this part you said about the camp. If the approach is such that sports playgrounds, not only camps and golf courses, then all other sports playgrounds that can be developed according to the spatial plan on forests and forest land, remain on the forest-economic basis, then a number of other purposes such as that can be managed by such logic could remain on a forest-economic basis and be a forest of special purpose. I said golf was questioned, so for me and golf shouldn't stay and be a forest of special purpose because it's a zone of sport and recreation and then it should be isolated from the forest-economic base. But if there's anything I can do for golf, I can't do for the camp. Because you built a camp space which is in the building infrastructure communal sense arranged and built with accommodation units auxiliary, basic, etc., etc. So we can't agree on that, but right now there's no need to replicate. As far as the OKFŠ is concerned, is it if the Croatian forests waste part of the current funds that are being made on the basis of the BOX who can confirm us, and I want to believe your word, but who can confirm to us that now and when the Minister prescribes a certain amount with his rule to Croatian forests that will be safe, 100% and you have said that, less than was now the full fee, that there will be no part of any less pay in any other non-intentional way? Because no one prevents the minister from performing surveillance and determines whether the Croatian forests are purposely spent by the OkFŠ, the compensation of the OkFŠ.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83394	The last replica, the esteemed Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83395	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned by the end of your debate that the government should bring a recovery programme related to the damages that occurred in the Gorski Kotar at the beginning of this year. And here's to start with, I'm going to quote our president, Mr. Josipovic, on February 6th, he was downstairs, and he said that this accident was an opportunity to do something for Gorski Kotar. And another sentence, the truth mentioned another law, not the Law of the Forests. Furthermore, it needs to be launched or at least better understood the legislative initiatives of the new Regional Development Act which must have such provisions that, as the president pointed out, it stimulates people to stay alive in these areas of difficult life, which means that they must benefit far more from the natural resources of the area in which they live. Comrade Sumrak mentioned earlier the amount of 222m euros and the 10m we will receive from the Solidarity Fund. So at the same time that the damage occurred in Gorski kotar was in Slovenia, so we see how Slovenians approached the problem. So, Slovenians immediately joined the amendments to the Law on Forests, simplified the procedure for administrative monitoring of wood exports from the forest by 30 April 2015. The Minister of Agriculture has proposed the establishment of an agency to deal with price developments and the purchase of wood in order to prevent market leaps, the tax administration of Slovenia has made a decision on reducing the tax on farmers affected by the accident, etc. From 99, we also have practices from France related to the storm of Lotar and Martin, so what have we done today on the subject of this strategy that you mentioned the very recovery of the forest in Gorski Kotar?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83396	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83397	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Box, I have no choice but to agree with you absolutely. I am sorry that this time the President of the Republic remained only at the conclusion and did not ask for what he was really doing, but at the very beginning, when he came to Gorski Kotar announced. And to expect it was, we have to say that there was a government, there was this home, that they really brought in one act that would be comprehensive and interdisciplinary, which would include a number of ministries, and perhaps local self-government units, and regional self-government, and that the damage that has been done, which is huge for this area of Gorski Kotar, could at least be remedied and that people who have largely lived from these forests in a certain way have a resolved job and continue to function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83398	Thank you. The last individual debate, distinguished Marija Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83399	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with an associate here at the end I would say this ballad, unfortunately I was forced for, say, insensitive and insensitive to some of the subjects for the importance of this topic, to repeat what I pointed out in my first reading, which is the quote of the Law "If forests and forest land are good for the Republic of Croatia, and have an extremely special protection." I would add that forests and forest land are our national treasure, our public goods, of course, as well as the waters for which the Republic of Croatia must have special protection and care because that is what I would say for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And this national interest should not be marred by either sale or concession, nor doubting that the law could damage the preservation of that national good. By selling forests and water, this time it's about forests, we can easily turn into naked people without anything, and the only thing we can become is, unfortunately, someone's colony. Therefore, the adoption of such a vital law must have a special treatment and inclusion of the general public. The years of neglect and the carelessness of the responsible, I would say, reflects on the woods and also the creation of profits for society as a whole. Of course, forests are a very significant medium for the economic development of the country. Of course, the greatest and most important profit of man's life, then each other, and the forests are the source of both health and wealth, and the main factor in protecting the environment. The forest law is a fundamental act in the area of forestry which regulates the use and availability of forests and forest land as a natural wealth, with a view to maintaining biodiversity and ensuring management on the principles of economic sustainability, social responsibility and environmental acceptability. Therefore, we regret not accepting any of our justified ones, and I would say in some way the reasoned proposals put forward in the first reading. We believe that accepting ours as well as a series of other good proposals would be far clearer and quality, although I do not say that it is unquality. Furthermore, we believe that it is necessary to throw out articles or protection that allow valuable forests and forest land to be refurbished into building plots. We also hold that by combining these provisions of the bill and the Law on strategic investment projects of valuable forest and forest land are "given to investors" and open the door to the construction and concreteisation of the natural resource of the forest. We also consider the provisions of these articles by opening up the sale of natural forest resources and by not saying that forests should not be an obstacle to people and the development of the economy. The possible construction of golf courses and camps must be envisaged only in the area approved by the permanent expert body, so the permanent expert body composed of representatives of the competent ministries, Croatian Forests, Croatian Waters, the Faculty of Forests, Ecologists, the green inclusion of the field profession, which is immeasurable, experts because of the presence of Croatia, and of all impartial stakeholders in order to see the light of day from the national interest so important. I believe that the law that needs to be protected and that protects the national treasure must be passed by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83400	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First respected Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83401	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, this is not a ballad after all, this is an extremely important law. And I have already made it clear in one replica that winemakers, winemakers in Dalmatia and all of Croatia are waiting extremely for this law so that we can solve the development of the economy and what we are constantly saying we should develop and without this law this segment and olive growing and winemaking so as to say agriculture cannot have at the level of competitiveness in the European Union. Secondly, in your proposal, you would constantly be an expert body and I don't know who you would all involve in discussing whether it can only be the one to decide whether to transfer ownership rights. Well, you're not gonna be on some maquis on some piece of junk that's basically forest land doing such great expertise. Why? Because no investment, no forest land or deforestation can be made without a spatial plan and county, municipality and city, so the first local environment and the consent of both the Croatian forests and these all professional bodies is a prerequisite for anyone to run for the Strategic Investments Act, etc., etc., with the control of state attorneyship, public, public debates etc. So, this Law together with the Law on Strategic Investments and Other Laws, the Law on Spatial Planning, these are laws that are extremely well protected. And what is crucial and important to all of us in the adoption of the law to make it clear that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia know exactly what it is and why it is. And in the end, the damage of what the scissors in a segment don't get a little out of it because when you say forest land, then you think what your colleagues were saying about the oak of the watermelon, the whale, the black pine, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83402	The replica corresponds to Maria Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83403	Your Honor, I didn't mean the ballad when it comes to the law I was already thinking about these replicas. Of course, I did not accuse anyone of and ask for any of the laws in particular, but I wanted to prevent them from pointing out and looking for mechanisms to protect them from all kinds of malfeasances. I remain with it and I hold that all my, or our well-intentioned remarks would in some way guarantee the protection of what I said in the debate of the national good. And it is not against anyone, nor against anyone, but on the contrary only in the direction of the protection of the forest and the land of the forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83404	Second replica, the esteemed Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83405	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Ilic, this in your introduction here I fully agree with you when you spoke of the importance of the forest. What I'm replicating to you, I don't know where you came up with the data that this law is about selling forests and selling other natural resources. I'm interested in where you read it, I read it, I read it several times, I didn't get that information, so I'd like you to explain it to me. And what else you're afraid of and what many of the colleagues who tried to oppose this law were afraid of when they were re-purposed. The procedure is clear if the spatial plan is not passed on to the local self-government unit, the spatial plan is complete. The spatial plan when it is completed at the local self-government unit goes to various state bodies, ministries that give consent. If that consent doesn't have that spatial plan, there isn't. I understand the fear and sometimes the man when he burns, he's afraid of the cold stove. And this I ask you to explain this forest law where you read that this is about selling forests and other natural goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83406	The reply to the replica Maria Ilic. You need to pick up while your colleague's talking. Answer now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83407	I'm sorry. Your Honor, I didn't say they were being sold but I expressed concern about the sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83408	The final minutes of this debate belong to Tihomir Jakovina, Minister of Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83409	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. For the last few hours, I have been patiently sitting and listening, not answering, I have left myself to try to answer all these questions in the final word, or correct all those inaccuracies and false claims. And I'll say a lot of things were also in the sphere of untruth and deception of the Croatian public. First of all, I would like to ask what my colleague Mandic said that someone told me in this law and one article and one part of the law that talks about the sale of forest or forest land. Four things are, or four basic intensities that we wanted to solve with these amendments and additions to the law. It's an acceleration of the administrative availability of forest land, we talked about forest advisory services, about OkFŠ. It actually turned out to be the first time you read about the Golf Act. I gave myself among other things in this period between the first and the second, so I pulled out a little of those laws that existed. So we have a golf course law from 12 months 2008 and I think it was June 2010. The law amending and supplementing the Law on Golf Courses. I'm sorry that Bačić's respected colleague has no reason to believe that I've heard many times today in his individual debates and clubs the authority, the ability to sell, abuse and so forth. So let's go look at this Law on Golf Courses article 11. Among other things, says the Republic of Croatia, the units of local and regional (regional) self-government and legal persons who are owned or established by them are obliged, on the request of an investor who sells land at a market price without the execution of a public tender, part of the land needed to form an unbuilt building particle on which, in accordance with the location permit or urban planning, the planned construction of the building referred to in Article 2 of this Act, not exceeding 30% of the total area on which the construction of a golf course is planned. I also looked at some of the debates that were in this respected home regarding this law and in the 6th Council and some colleagues sitting here today and who were in the debate were eager to defend that law during that period, as well as the members of the government who proposed it for a resolution minister to the entire government because it was the government's position. When we speak, I think it was said several times today that the Minister's opinion on spatial-planned documentation or spatial plan. That's not true. The opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, all those who know the procedure which is complex and which is well complex, the adoption of spatial-planned documentation knows in what way and which institutions must give an opinion on the spatial plan within a very complex or broad ministry. Almost all my administrations have to give an individual opinion on the spatial plan. I only sign that opinion as the head of the body and return it to the units of local self-government. On the one hand, we are talking about centralisation and problems of centralisation, and on the other hand we do not respect even the basic strategic planning documents in accordance with the Law on Spatial Planning, which brings units of local self-government or county, and these are spatial plans of municipalities, cities and county spatial plans plus those lower planning arrangements. I believe in these plans and in that part and the scope of land availability is only on what was adopted as a strategic document of spatial planning of local self-government units. We, as a ministry, have to give consent, we don't do it in two phases anymore. No problem, no additional months of waiting, but the moment we give a binding positive opinion is considered that this part of the forest land can be put into operation and singled out according to the purpose provided for in the spatial plan. When we talk about spatial-planned documentation and last time I said, she was worried about my colleagues, Grubisic, mentioned extremely or highly valuable Slavonian forests. I said once again that in the course of this year, according to the Law on Spatial Planning, a state spatial plan will be adopted, which will taxively list all forests of special importance that will never be within the scope of spatial plans and will not be able to work for them.... On the other hand, I think that one of the colleagues has noticed well, this home has adopted a strategy for tourism development, almost by consensus, and one of the specifics of this strategic document for tourism development we are trying to disabling in this way those who have passed a special law and who have made it possible, in fact, to do so in accordance with this law, to re-apply to property. I'm going to point out one more time, this law gives opportunity, but only real construction. The Institute of Real Building is the only way... to dispose of forest and forest land. I thank you for everything that has been constructive in this debate. I find it very awkward to speak or speak sufficiently reasoned after the vice president's debate... which he very professionally elaborated. Most of this law, and the correction stands, and that's what we agreed, will go into the making of a new law. I didn't say respected MPs that I'd be doing a new law and I'd be doing a strategy. When you talk about facts and arguments, you talk about them. I said that in the final phase, the creation of EU forest strategies is based on which we too will comply with this document that obliges us to develop our strategy and then work on a new law. Until then, we went to make it possible to actually provide a large number of investments that are on hold to be realised through more quality and more transparent and faster procedures of forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, again with maximum protection of the interests of the forest. One of the questions I've heard here was the BOX, that is the best and most qualitative way that it's ever been. You forget that the ratio of the forest in Croatia is 70% of the state forest managed by the Croatian forest and 30% of the private forest. Is it logical that all compensation comes to the Croatian forest, I don't think so. I think this way, through quality sublegal acts, in a way that projects will be monitored, not spent or managed in the way that previous years were managed, I'm not talking about the KEFŠ funds, that the effect will be much greater. Once again, I note that this is not the Golf Act, here we only allow some things to be made in a much better way, not only in potential golf courses or golf areas but also in camps that are an important segment of Croatian tourism and in other sports-recreation facilities which are now almost illegal or semi-legal in the woods and on forest land through another mention of the Institute of Construction Rights. So it's not selling, it's managing and enabling development and these activities. Through this law I am sure that we will actually achieve or implement the key intentions that we have drawn up when we passed this law, which is to speed up administrative procedures, the availability of land owned by the Republic of Croatia, the acquisition of conditions for new investment and investment, the protection from the sale of forest land and agricultural and water that has been imputed several times here today. Every time I seem to have to repeat myself while I'm the minister who runs the farm resort there will be no sale of forests, no water, no land unlike some governments that were before me. And above all protection of forest economic areas in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83410	Thank you. We have two replicas. First of all, the gnome of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83411	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. Here's how I liked it when you first read and read to us from the 2010 law on the golf course. I don't know where you were, whether you were running your pharmacy at the time or not, but at the time all the members of the SDP were absolutely against it, they pointed out all the flaws. And it seems to me now that you are exactly this law, the amendments and additions to the Forests Act in reality, because you have read this Law on Golf Courses that we have finally abolished because all these things have been solved by some other laws and sublaws. And as for this forest law, the new forest law, I believe, Mr. Minister, that when you, sometimes you come out like all of us in front of a pay phone in order to show you all the right words. Among other things, you said at the beginning of your term, I'll find you a phonogram, which doesn't matter, we don't have to. Personally, I don't have anything against you, but as I told this government, it's so hard to believe. You said there was going to be a new forest law, and they should have come before us. But here it is, you say you didn't say you were talking about strategy. But there's no strategy, there's nothing. And that's exactly what I'm wondering if you were inspired by this law on golf courses when you passed this bill. Turns out it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83412	Minister Jakovina answers the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83413	Dear colleagues of the twilight need a certain level or level of mutual respect or political culture and education in the conversation of each other. I'm not going down to the level that you're potentialing personal insults and calling. And I'll do it again. I said there will be a new Law on Forests, and I said so in the first reading of the law, but according to the EU legislation, in line with the strategy of the forest at European level, in line with the strategy that the Republic of Croatia will make on the basis of this strategic document. And then we'll make a new forest law. Until then, we went to the amendments and additions of the existing law. I read this just to see the difference between the existing law that gives the possibility or respect for the institution of the right to build certain necessary infrastructures for campsites, golfes and other contents on forests or forest land in a strictly controlled and implemented procedure unlike what was provided for by your law, which is an authority, it's a sale, it's a work without competition, and it's usually heaven and earth. The total difference wasn't my inspiration for sure that law, but we actually tried through a law that would allow the realization of a certain number and these investments to introduce order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83414	My colleagues, twilight, you've lifted a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83415	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Rules of Procedure 238. I kindly ask you to give Mr. Secretary a warning, since he dared to speak at all about my home education and my civilizational level. I'm not going back to his level now, but he's a minister here, and we're representatives here at the Croatian Parliament. My home education and my civilizational level of discussion will be evaluated by someone else, and your discussion of your civilization level, Mr. Minister, about your home education will be given to you by the entire Croatian public assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83416	I should now give an interpretation of whether there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure or not. I'll refer you to the board, and I'd like you to request a written interpretation. Thank you. I'm saying there was no damage to the Rules of Procedure. We have one replica. Who else? Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83417	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you say as long as you're the Minister in charge of forestry, no land will be sold in forests, or forest land. I'm glad you have that attitude, but unfortunately no one's going to ask you if it's going to sell or not. Why? If the Strategic Investment Projects Act is implemented, then the Strategic Investment Projects Act says that for the purpose of realising a strategic project of importance for the Republic of Croatia, land under forests, i.e. forest land can be sold to an interested investor. He can't, but at his request if declared by a strategic project, the land is sold. And on the other hand, according to this law, after the construction land is expanded according to the spatial plan of the forest and forest land, that land comes out if it is not golf and the camp comes out of the forest-economic area and it has DUDI based on the Law on the availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia and then that land goes for sale. If that's what DUDI thinks. Therefore, if DUDI estimates that this project for which the spatial plan provides for this particular purpose, which is derived from the forest-economic area, then it will have the basis of the Property Availability Act, which includes and sells. And then again, the government doesn't ask after that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83418	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83419	Once again, I will repeat the importance of spatial-planned documentation for municipalities, cities and counties and a relatively complex procedure with which you have agreed to make and adopt such spatial plans yourself. The moment the local self-government unit adopted or adopted a spatial plan, it had to obtain an opinion from dozens of institutions, not to mention public debates, not to mention the whole procedure of adopting a spatial plan. At that time, if a part of the forest or forest land is located in a spatial plan, why do you think it is a particularly significant or valuable substance that should remain an obstacle to potential investment or investment and is located in an economic zone or in a part designed for the development of an economy or project? I don't care if it's not even these activities you've listed. Once again we say the spatial plan is the most important strategic document of spatial planning for a single unit of local self-government. We took this as a postulate, not something that the minister would draw at his request, will or preference, but a systematic document on which all institutions and state institutions gave their positive opinion that this spatial plan could be adopted. Besides, I'm going to point out one more time, the state spatial plan is something that we're going to have by the end of the year. And all forests of special purpose will be listed by location inside and will not be able to cover any changes in potential future changes in spatial plans and enter into the scope of spatial plans whether the municipality, cities or county. There are no special concerns about any distortions related to spatial plans, depending on how the representative bodies of the local self-government units themselves work. But that's why there's a state, or other institutions to control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83420	Thank you. This is what we're done with the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83421	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Forest Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 620. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am voting on the proposal to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 83 votes in favour and 31 votes against us have accepted that we are discussing and deciding on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the Government's representative to explain the amendment to the government. Dear Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83422	I would like to thank the esteemed president, colleagues and fellow MPs. Article 48 The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes an amendment to correct an actual error in that Article 48., number 8. is replaced by 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83423	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No interested, technical amendment. I'm closing the debate. I'm giving a statement, who's for the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment of the government of the Republic of Croatia has been accepted by most votes, 83 votes in favour, 29 votes against and 2 abstentions, making it an integral part of the final draft of the law. Dear Ministers, we have an amendment to President Nenada Dance. Amendment No 1 to Article 34
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83424	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted for reasons because an increase in forest contributions by legal and natural persons carrying out the sale of products and the exploitation of forests and paying units of local self-government would in fact make it even more difficult for the wood industry, which is this way in a rather invisible situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83425	Carrier of the Nenad Dance amendment. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83426	Forest contributions and the income of local self-government units is 3.5% which is often insufficient for local self-government units used to build municipal infrastructure. The units of local self-government covered by the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area were income from a pure forest contribution of 5%. The Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area is hereby abolished and these units will contribute to the forest 3.5%. So I suggest that the contribution, the forest contribution rises from 3.5 to 5%, so for the units of local self-government that fall under the mountainous and mountainous areas and the area of special state care to 15%. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83427	I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the honourable representative, Nenad Dance, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate, he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes for, 31 votes against and 2 abstentions are passed by law P.Z. No. 620 in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83428	We continue with - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law implementing the Regulation of the European Union on the protection of animals, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 684; Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture. You've received reports. With us is the proposing representative, do you want to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83429	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The law implementing the EU Animal Protection Regulation implements 8 EU animal protection regulations, and this proposal amends or supplements the part relating to the implementation of the 2th Regulation. This is Regulation 1099/2009. which regulates the protection of animals at the time of death, and Regulation No. 1/2005. which regulates the protection of animals during transport, with a view to ensuring the protection of animals kept and kept for the production of food, wool, leather, fur at the time of death and ensuring satisfactory levels of animal protection during transport, as well as ensuring the full implementation of those Regulations. Questions governed by this law, animal welfare requirements in slaughterhouses at the time of death must apply and be harmonised in all EU Member States. However, a transitional period is allowed to regulate slaughterhouses according to the prescribed animal welfare requirements. This law therefore provides for a transitional period until 8 December 2019 for the editing of slaughterhouses approved by 1 July 2013 in the Republic of Croatia. Member States may adopt national rules aimed at ensuring the protection of animals at the time of death, and this law lays down the grounds for the adoption of a Regulation on the death of animals outside slaughterhouses, on the slaughter of animals without prior stunning for the purposes of registered religious communities, on the slaughter of game from breeding and sows, and on the death of fish and on which it is necessary to ensure that animals are spared from any unnecessary suffering when killed. Under this Regulation, the Republic of Croatia must ensure the implementation of the training of personnel involved in the killing of animals and the execution of related procedures, and these provisions of the Regulation shall be elaborated more precisely. Each Member State and the Republic of Croatia must identify one person who contact the point of access to information relating to the implementation of scientific support operations under this Regulation and lays down the methods and conditions for determining the control and contact point. This law lays down infringement provisions for the conduct contrary to this Regulation. Amendments and additions to the laws relating to the implementation of Regulation No 1/2005, this law provides for the publication of data on animal carriers on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture. This law establishes animal surveillance during transport at the exit points of the Republic of Croatia and establishes the competent authority of the veterinary inspection to carry out that surveillance and in order to ensure the protection of animals during transport. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional cash in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are proposed to adopt laws of urgency in order to fully comply with certain provisions of the regulations in an unequivocal, precise and clear manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83430	Thank you, Minister. Would the representatives of the committee's rapporteur like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Djurdzica Sumrak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83431	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister with an associate, Mr. Minister has really said before me everything this law speaks of, and I will use my minutes to talk about something else, and what is equally important for the profession of doctors of veteran medics, veterinary technicians and everyone in the service, in the veterinary service. And related to the natural flood disaster that affected the southeastern part of Slavonia, the veterinary profession has since the first moment been involved in the evacuation and disposal of animals from flooded and endangered areas to identify and assess their health status, well-being, issue of accompanying documentation and record keeping. These activities were also attended by workers, the highest employees of the Veterinary Station of County, veterinary organisations of Vukovar-Srijem, Osijek-Baranja County whose areas were evacuated, veterinary inspectors and veterinary members of the local crisis headquarters. I note that a large number of volunteers from all over Croatia have been actively involved in the direct rescue of animals from flooded areas and in cooperation with animal protection organisations. The veterinary profession has provided assistance to all animals who needed it, and hopes that it will take care of the health of evacuated animals on a daily basis. Veterans and veterinary technicians' teams of Vukovar-Srijem County, Osijek-Baranja, Brod-Posavina, Sisak-Moslavina, Bjelovar-Bilogorska have been placed unreservedly at the disposal of the Veterinary Authority to implement animal care measures, to take care of their health, to implement disinfection measures, to disinfection, to deratiation in flooded and threatened areas, and to disinfect the means of transport at border crossings towards Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia from Jasenovac to Batina. Only for disinfection of means of transport at these border crossings is around 70 veterinary agents day and night. I would particularly like to highlight the contribution of the Veterinary Service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the workers of the Mountain Rescue Service who have been professionally and above human opportunities involved in the rescue of live animals. They evacuated about 3597 animals. And by extracting the carcasses of animals throughout the flooded area, over 1,000 corpses have been safely removed. Their organisation and activity was immeasurable. At all times, all of those activities were carried out by the Authority for Veterinary and Food Safety and their implementation by the National Veterinary Authority. We had the Law on Gender Equality the other day and what all women can do. I'd like to do it this way whether it's media or not, but I really appreciate the entire State Veterinary Inspection, as well as the coordinator, the medical doctor, the doctor of veterinary medicine Nadia Chaleti and Master Brankica Kapek. I think it's women who have shown how to deal with situations of crisis. Why am I doing this today in my own, here's the opening statement, this law is about chapter 12 that we've been negotiating veterinary, phytosanitary surveillance. And I think the role of veterinarians and veterinary professions or veterinary services has been greatly neglected. In these disasters I was just talking about, very few statements and these two inspectors said anything, in which way they were engaged. Very few were heard by fellow veterinarians who engaged in the field. That's why I really want to say that I'm proud to be part of that veterinary profession and that veterinary service. And in all the other crisis situations that arise our veterinary service, that is, our profession does all this very professionally without much trouble. And that's why today's law the minister was talking about, no matter what he insulted me, I have to say that we will support it, there's no reason not to support it. Because here we are really only in line with a few EU regulations and that is why it is good for this EU, that we are in a way where we are no longer human, where we need even more help. We recently had a small problem concerning cow madness, which around 2001 was a large number in Croatia, and there the veterinary profession showed responsibility, primarily responsibility to tell the truth and to talk about the truth. I am, and today I trust our fellow veterinarians, but I trust fellow foresters, and colleagues with agronomists and all the other expertise that works in the field, I believe them because I know that they recognize critical points, they know what this is about, they rarely ask someone what is in the law, and they really should be the ones who should propose and should be. And if we were to listen to the profession I think that a lot less wicked sentences would be, much less insinuation would be, much nicer to talk in this Croatian Assembly, we would not allow some of the ministers to call us for home education, then for some other things, especially not the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, because they would know who the representatives are in the Croatian Parliament and would allow us to say what we think even though it sometimes offends them. But here's my home education. It doesn't allow me to waste any more of your time and talk and repeat myself. And that's why I'm going to finish, this bill, that's why we're going to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83432	Thank you, too. We have one replica. Branko Box. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83433	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you spoke to your colleagues about the role of Veterinary Service in this unfortunate flood that took place in May in Slavonia. So it is that the corpses of the dead animals are one of the biggest problems in the recovery of the terrain when such floods occur. And I'm also sharing your thinking that the Veterinary Authority, along with your colleagues on the ground, has done an extraordinary job. So the total seems to me to be over 300 thousand pounds of these corpses and byproducts removed by the end of the last month. But also one well-intentioned remark, Mr. Minister, although that is not appropriate because I replicate my colleague but by the way, means I am a member of the Commission for the Assessment of the damages of the elemental accident. So you've been working on one form, the Department of Construction on the second, third ministry on the third patterns. You simply have a mess in the field and do not give God in the future if such a thing happens means that quality data and fast processing means it should be unified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83434	Thank you. Answer. Here you go, comrade twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83435	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. But an esteemed colleague, yes, you said well, but also in preventing and spreading infectious diseases is a big job really done, what a lionish thing to say, and that's the removal of the corpse and the recovery in that way, it should be said here because it's not an EPP for anyone, it's done by Agroproteinka. Because we in Croatia right now, and we don't have anyone else who can resuscitate our corpses in this way or where they could be driven. And this may be another problem throughout our Croatia that it is likely that another such project of Agroproteinka is doing a great job, are well organized and professional people work within their plants. And indeed, they too need to be thanked in one way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83436	Thank you, too. The Minister called in his word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83437	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, I made an exception, in fact, to realize how much praise I have made for the work of our ministry's professional services on this side of the Assembly I haven't heard for long, that I agree with you. And the colleagues you listed, and everyone at the Veterinary Authority, that is, the other administrations, they worked synchronised, they did quality work, they did professional work, they did their job. What I wanted to do was just make a little correction, on removal, in fact, on the evacuating operations of surviving cattle that were nearly 10 thousand 300 and some throats or pieces and were moved to almost 397 farms across Vukovar-Srijem and Osijek-Baranja County, which were not just veterinarians, other services and advisory services and civil protection and a large number of volunteers, volunteers, members and special and MUP who did excellent work on the same thing and on the removal of corpses. About 230 tons of corpses were removed, that was done by Agroproteinka in that part of the transport and harmless disposal, or the destruction of these corpses plus the mobile burner we got from Great Britain, and it seems to me that in the forests in Drenovci it was set up for the destruction and harmless disposal of smaller animals and these remains that were found in the yard. A great contribution from veterinarians and professionals who have been on the ground and only extract is teamwork. So everyone who was involved with a great deal of gratitude is given a confession. My colleague, Capek, was there at headquarters, Homeland Security and Rescue. A set and some kind of eyes and ears, that is, the moment I wasn't as a resolute minister could be there every day she was there and they did a great and professional job of their own. I'm glad you saw it, and I really think that we need to learn some lessons so that in case God doesn't give us such a big disaster again, we're even better. As a matter of fact, I've reported that later he doesn't run away from me, related to the damage assessment, is not a different methodology. What I didn't want to allow, I didn't want to allow machinations when reporting surfaces that were affected by these floods or disasters. ... We have exactly the orthophoto, the digital orthophoto footage of all the flooded areas, we speak about 8 thousand and 700 hectares where agricultural cultures have died, we added another correction to the surrounding waters 4 or 5 days later, and we will have exactly every hectare that has been killed and the percentage that has died. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since we have applications in... according to the support cultures, we avoid the possibility that in view of the announcements, there has already been an announcement by a certain number of agricultural producers to jump to 12, 14 or 16 thousand hectares of potential area for compensation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, all those agricultural producers who have indeed suffered will receive the maximum amount of compensation both fair and transparent. A number of meetings with agricultural producers were held with representatives of both municipal and county damage assessment committees and received detailed guidance on how and how it will be related to agricultural cultures and areas. As for the damage to machinery, machinery, farms, equipment, devices of the multi-annual plantation, we have reprogrammed one measure in the rural development programme, we have provided money, and in 9 months, competitions are on the move, and in a 100% amount, it will be able to be settled, or done, or by means of funds from the budget of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83438	Thank you, Minister. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of HNS representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83439	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an assistant, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the exhibition, I would say that I fully agree with my colleague Đurdjic that these experiences we have as the Republic of Croatia with the experiences of our breeders of domestic animals, the tradition we have, that these experiences are good and that they are favourable. This has all been confirmed in the experiences of the catastrophic flood that hit Vukovar-Srijem County where 7 villages were flooded and with one synchronised action, the damage that is now huge, large scales, but I think the greatest damage has been prevented because after such a major natural disaster, after so many deaths, after so many floods, no epidemic has been reported so far in animals or humans. Since colleagues who deal with disinfection, deratization and disinsectation know well what they wear inundated waters and what possible infections. I think this time it deserves a complete system of the Republic of Croatia, especially this part relating to the Ministry of Agriculture, that this part of the job has been done very well, to the satisfaction of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Although my colleague Đurdjica and I have not agreed and I wanted to mention this anyway because in such difficult times, this law that we have passed in our Parliament, which is adapted to Council regulations, the Council Commission, the European Community, we can say that we have passed such laws that can exist in the Republic of Croatia and are easily applicable. In fact, I think that way is fully satisfied with the form of this law and its implementation. This law regulates the responsibilities, obligations and responsibilities of legal and natural persons in order to protect animals, protect life, health and welfare of animals. This law also speaks of the way animals are treated from the conditions necessary to protect animals, keep, grow, transport, perform experiments, slaughter, kill animals, and also about keeping animals in zoos and circuses, as well as in animal competition performances. We passed this law in October 2013. This law was complemented in early 2014 on a specific reorganisation of public administration, on inspections and in this part when we talk about the amendments and additions of this law here we refer essentially to only 8 articles, where we have in fact the full clarity and the public issue of all possible documents accompanying the transport of animals. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Furthermore, this law also regulates persons who are in favour of contact, their expert prepares, their experience and their knowledge and knowledge of English, and therefore receives certain certificates of written and oral examinations. This law also addresses the issue of training staff in Article 15 where exactly who and how can be trained. What is particularly important is that this law speaks in Article 15(b) about the arrangement of slaughterhouses. Here we have one document that says that all those slaughterhouses that are registered in the European Union until 1.1.2013 and the Republic of Croatia can carry out their animal slaughter activities by 8.12.2019. After that, all these slaughterhouses that had the necessary work permits will have to adapt their conditions to the standards of the entire European Union. We also have here especially under c) in article 15 of the death certificate outside the slaughterhouse, slaughtering animals without stunning, breeding game, dying fish. What is important is that this part that is related to the death and slaughter of animals is directly related to the Regulation of the Council of the European Community of 1099 of 2009 which speaks of the protection of animals at the time of death. Here we should note especially in article 15, sub - d) the slaughter of animals without stunning. There are certain religious communities that have chosen this status and this way, that animals are removed in this way and that is regulated exactly by what rules and how it is reflected. I believe that part of the issue of the Republic of Croatia is that it has accepted certain rules and certain rules regarding the European Community and I think they are good things. What is also important to note in this section, that this law also correctly mentions which funds are illegal, question columns in hunting, issue of transport, imports of certain animal skins, cat skins, dogs are forbidden and I think that these are all good things that certainly go into the context of animal welfare protection. What is also important is that I said that since 8 December 2019 a new Law on the regulation of slaughterhouses has been in force and that our companies dealing with this activity must certainly adapt their conditions for further business. This law will fully support the Croatian People's Party club, because I say these were purely technical changes and additions. Because in the adoption of the laws of that remark that we had and were adopted so that here we can be pleased to say that breeders and animals and family farms can carry out this law uninterruptedly and adapt it for the needs and development of family farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83440	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Mario Moharic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83441	Dear Vice President, dear fellow ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We have heard here that there are technical changes and additions to the Law on the Implementation of EU Animal Protection Regulations and, as such, the SDP club will support these changes. It's about other amendments to this law. The first changes were published in National No. 14 of 2014 since 5 February. They entered into force on 6 February, and they mainly referred to the changes resulting from the abolition of the State Inspectorate. The Law implementing the EU Animal Protection Regulations itself has been published in the National Journal 125 since 2013 and 11 October 2013, and has been adopted for the purpose of implementing the 8 EU animal protection regulations. We have already noted in the adoption of this law that these animal protection regulations prohibit the use of columns in the EU Member States, the conditions for resting places for animals, the protection of animals during transport, the prohibition of placing on the market, import or export into the EU of fur, cats and dogs, and their products. The placing on the market and introduction into the EU of seal products and the protection of animals grown and held for the production of food, wool, skin, fur at the time of death. With these other amendments to this Law on the implementation of the EU Animal Protection Regulations, we have, therefore, the technical complementarity of EU Regulation No 1099/2009 and we have already heard from the important things I will point out that to facilitate cooperation between Member States and exchange of information between them. This law prescribes, therefore, the means and conditions for determining the contact point for the implementation of scientific support operations. The Republic of Croatia must then, under the same regulation, ensure that the training of persons involved in the killing of animals and through the execution of associated training of staff, and that these provisions of the Regulation are more specifically worked out by this law. The provisions of this law also prescribe infringements for the conduct of the same regulation. It shall be made available to the public to data on animal carriers which have been granted the authorisation, whether or not the authorisation has been granted for long journeys. The law further implements the EU animal protection Regulation prescribed by the competent authority of the border veterinary inspector to carry out the prescribed checks on animals at border veterinary stations and provides for the jurisdiction of the border veterinary inspector and veterinary inspector to carry out animal checks at the exit points of the Republic of Croatia where the border veterinary stations are located. And what matters in these changes is that, and we heard from fellow Mandic is tied to slaughterhouses. The provisions of this law set out a transitional period for the editing of slaughterhouses according to the prescribed animal welfare requirements, which is related to the regulation I already mentioned in 1099/2009 where it is prescribed that slaughterhouses are approved by 1 July 2013, and in our case it is 1 July, and in the EU it was 1 January 2013 to be harmonised, i.e. to comply with the provisions of the Annexes of the two Regulations of the European Community until 8 December 2019. And these are, therefore, all amendments and additions to that very provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83442	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83443	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I can see that the debate has gone peacefully, but it seems to me that this is because Mr. Minister is gone, which is some of the problems that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and certain traditional, so the habits and problems that will arise are not said. We are talking about EU regulations here and about animal transport. He then bows even though it is a little paradoxical to say that it is about improving the welfare of animals in the slaughterhouse. Let's translate it that way when we can't do it differently, even though I say it a little paradoxically. But what is particularly important here is that date of adaptation and editing of slaughterhouses until 8 December 2019. What our Slavonian peasants were very often aware of in accession negotiations with the EU is the problem of the traditional slaughter of pigs that has been carried out for centuries or perhaps thousands of years to say the same way. It is now prescribed that at the slaughter at home there must be the same procedure as at the slaughter of animals in the slaughterhouse. So, the meat animal. Now, by 2019, there should be one transitional period, a transitional period until which either a slaughterhouse or a veterinary service will have to provide professional supervision or the possibility of a peasant slaughtering or a man in Slavonia let's say about a pig, let's say, is that pig's pig in a home arrangement under supervision or in the same way as it seems in a slaughterhouse or as it says here with an improvement in the welfare of animals for slaughter. This fear that was expressed during the pre-accession negotiations here is not to say it was kind of delayed until 8 December 2019, and I hope, here I will not be opposed to the way and the course of this debate, that we will also be able to say that the stunning of animals before the act of slaughter will also succeed in our peasant land, families with which it is done for example as pigs. During my stay in the European Parliament as an observer of the Croatian Parliament, there were many words about this as well as about the transport of animals. At one point in time, the proposal came from a group to, for example, castration or, as we say, harming pigs is done under general anesthesia and that the EU, in its legislative framework, prescribes and adopts it in its regulations. And then, say, about half a million pigs that are intended for slaughter, which are then castrated, smudged, would have to go into general anesthesia. The general anesthesia for pigs can only be provided by the Veterinary Faculty in Zagreb or where it already exists. Now, the technical question is how to get 500 thousand pigs to the Veterinary College in Zagreb to give them general anesthesia to castrate? It's how people say it. The vets know what this is about. Not at all! There's no possibility. The greatest and best chance may be the local anesthesia under which this procedure can be performed. It has been discussed why these regulations are being adopted. It's about what happened. stress meat, adrenaline secretion, serotonin and all other hormones from the glands of animals intended for slaughter in case such a procedure is not carried out in slaughterhouses for the welfare of animals intended for slaughter. This excludes clearly religious communities or so-called religious communities. Halal, as far as I know, slaughter for certain religious communities for which there is an exception to this. If I were to be absolutely convinced that in our households carrying out slaughter outside the slaughterhouse, then if I were to be completely convinced, then I would gladly and unthinkably raise my hand for this legal proposal if our veterinary service would either learn or enable therefore slaughter under the same conditions as in the slaughterhouse in the household. So, outside the slaughterhouse. Are we going to adopt that by 2019? I don't know, maybe the vets know more about it, so they'll tell us, but those are the problems that need to be pointed out, and not just me, I'm in for and done. We should clearly say that we have this traditional form of worship, mainly in Slavonia, in Zagorje clearly and in some other parts that are carried out outside the slaughterhouse. ... And maybe it's possible, maybe it's not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll see, we have five years of time to adapt and try to worship that well-being or animal welfare at the slaughter level at the slaughterhouses and at home. As far as the other items in this law are concerned, members of this law regarding animal transport, in relation to border checks, in relation to authorised persons, and then these legal repressive measures with legal penalties, infringing provisions that are relatively, not relatively but absolutely very high. I don't have anything special to add. Here, we will consider more, we will still ask the Minister's opinion on this because in Slavonia the peasants expect an answer to this question that I asked here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83444	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. Boris Blazekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83445	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The draft law introduces EU rules on the protection of animals that prohibit the use of columns in the field of EU Member States and the possibility of entering furs of certain wild animals, species and other products from such animals from individual countries which do not use traps in the capture of animals or other methods contrary to international... Standards. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Conditions for animal resting places where, during a period of at least 24 hours and longer stay, animal protection during transport and transport related procedures, the prohibition of placing on the market of imports or exports from the EU fur of cats and dogs and products containing such fur, placing on the market and entering into the EU area of seal products, the protection of animals grown or held for the production of food, wool, leather, fur at the time of death. On the very law and some details of the law on behalf of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats, my dear colleague Mr. Ivica Mandic spoke, and I wish for the whole problem to approach something different, so I will repeat one of my earlier discussions. In fact, it is important to talk except about the crisis in the economy and the crisis in society, and about us, as people, about us as individuals who live in the community with other individuals, individuals. It is important to talk about us and our efforts to live in an orderly society, a society in which we can realize the basic talents and realize our ambitions. We are all born, not by our own free will, as free individuals, individuals with the right to life, with the right to security, with the right to freedom and the right to happiness. As adult individuals, or individuals, we have voluntarily decided that we want to live in an orderly community, we want to live in a state. She, the state, is here to ensure our safety, to protect us from ourselves and from outside threats. I am tasked by the state to provide us with an equal legal framework in which we are all equally fulfilling our wishes and our ambitions according to our personality, our talents within the legal order. We also decided that we want a social state. In a developed world, so-called Western civilizations are the most modern and advanced countries in whose circle we are a year ago and we have entered shows the highest range of humanity and sensitivity to any suffering. Modern societies, apart from suffering, are increasingly understanding animal suffering. Modern societies table animal rights and protect them by legal regulations. Thank God and Croatia is such a society. Mahatma Gandhi wrote "The size and moral progress of a people will be measured by how they treat animals." In today's world, we are increasingly approaching the ideals of the rights of all living things, still in the collective consciousness of all peoples and states prevailing on the necessary breeding of animals for food, and this will rarely be denied by the state, which is understandable. However, strict rules are laid down on how to kill these animals with direct provisions, technically precise instructions and how to grow and how to grow and how to kill animals for human consumption in order to minimise the suffering of these animals. There are growing restrictions in breeding animals for fur and skin, and there are societies becoming more conscious. Today, societies condemn and ban various experiments on animals, exploitation of circus animals, closing or maximum humanisation of zoos, pets becoming family members, and veterinarians simply become family doctors. The awareness of rights and humane relations against animals is growing. It is true that somewhere someone wrote that our descendants in the distant future will marvel at us and look at our age as an age not to worry about nature and the environment, as well as the age of cruelty against animals. And it's probably gonna be hard for them to understand that we've been so unreasonable to the natural environment and inhumans in relation to animals. Humanity is a generally accepted and accepted view of individual individuals, which is the happiness and well-being of individuals and society, respect for the dignity and identity and life of man, the development of man, the allow for the development of dignity and freedom of people in society. Humanism theorists often debated desirable personal humanity, especially topics such as human beings and what kind of man it should be. The main goal of humanism was peaceful, tolerated, and creative behavior between people. Johan Gotfrid Herder felt that man’s humanity was only partially innate and that it had yet to develop after birth. The development of humanity must continue over and over again or we will sink back into raw animality and brutality. According to theory, man can reduce or increase his position of humanity according to his works. Work that increases humanity contains good goals such as kindness, goodness, humanity, mercy, and compassion. The theory of the humanist also defined the unwanted behavior of the so-called. Inhumanity. Philosopher Ciceron continued to question what makes a man human, and he answered himself, regardless of a man who doesn't care about other people, he's inhuman. According to the same reasoning, individuals can become human or inhuman by means of good and bad deeds. Although, according to some definitions, humanity is defined as moral behavior, man according to the ethical values set in a particular community often happens when he radicalises a community, that these individuals oppose the aggression he imposes on them. The principle of humanity refers to the equality of all people regardless of origin and gender, dignity of people and pacifism, or refusal to attack others. It also contains tolerance and respect for all persons and their beliefs, and some perspectives and respect for animals and nature in general. Humanity is often associated with spirituality, humanity is the basis for human rights, and in most democratic states of the world that have slowly developed throughout history, a harsh violation of human rights during the war, dictatorship or exploitation of a nation represents when crime against humanity. Terry Eagleton has developed a theory that evil in humans is dominant, but it's also a human battle against evil, namely every evil lasts and can last for a shorter period, but it's human nature to recognize evil, to fight evil, and to fight evil often by individuals, a smaller group turns into a fight against evil until certain evils are won. Good, that is, humanity always wins because with reason it is stronger than evil. Humanity is especially manifested in relation to the weak and the powerless. Animals are completely powerless compared to humans, and they are in the cruel power of men. People are increasingly aware that animal cruelty is evil and are increasingly aware of their animal protection obligations, which is why laws are passed that determine a more humane relationship with animals and protect animal rights. These laws, apart from making them well weaker, in this case animals, make us more human, as well as my colleagues from the Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83446	Thank you. This is what we've exhausted the list of people reported. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. We continue with the final, thanking the minister with the co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83447	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the EU Regulation on the Protection of Animals, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 684. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am putting the Rules of Procedure to the vote that we are discussing and deciding the Government's proposal. Please, who's in favour of such a proposal? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that we have accepted the government's proposal by majority vote, 83 votes in favour, 31 abstentions, to discuss and decide its amendments. I ask the proposing representative to explain the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina. Amendment number one to the Honored Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83448	Amendment No. 1 to Article 8 is, in fact, legally nomotechnically supplementing the statement of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83449	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state who is for amendment number 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 83 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 28 abstentions, have adopted Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, thus becoming an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number two to the Honored Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83450	Thank you, Your Honor. The amendment to Article 9, is also legally and nomotechnically supplementing the statement of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83451	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I give a statement on who is for amendment number 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 83 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 28 abstentions, have adopted Amendment No 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, thus becoming an integral part of the final draft of the law. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 113 votes for and 3 abstentions have been passed by law P.Z.E. No. 684 in the text as tabled by the Proposer, together with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83452	We continue with - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 618 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You've received reports. We have the Deputy Minister, Mr Evelyn Tonkovic, with an associate. Deputy, intro, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83453	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here, we have before us the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers. There have been minor amendments to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, and it has been approached for the purpose of removing, or correcting, observed irregularities, the content of the law has been no-technically improved. As a second reason, provisions have been laid down in the law to bring this law in line with the latest amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, adding provisions aimed at introducing different and stronger control over the application of certain police powers. As the Law on police affairs and powers following the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Commission, the Council and the European Central Bank, together with certain EU Framework Decisions, had to be included in the law in the provision of this law to transpose the administrative order of the Republic of Croatia into the following framework decisions. Council Framework Decision of 13 June 2002 on joint investigation teams and Council Framework Decision of 27 November 2008 on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. As an important newspaper, it's a little redefining the idea so far... of research. Namely, as proposed now,... the survey would cover those powers, measures and actions that police take when they reveal, within their jurisdiction, crimes and offences, a search for their perpetrators, or find and provide clues to what is the extent and extent of the concept of consent with real criminal practice. The paper also introduces the notion of analytical processing that enables the police to assess the justification for the initiation of criminal research or to represent its component. It is also due to the real problems identified in the implementation of the provisions of Article 7 of the current Law on the provision of assistance at the request of a court, a state lawyer, a body of public administration or a legal person with public authority, in the exercise of the actions of those bodies of assistance, the proposed formulation was not adequate and the proposed formulation of that assistance would be provided if, when carrying out the acts of those bodies, it is reasonably expected that the granting of resistance is more precise and that aid is not required in advance for the conduct of all the actions of those bodies, for example, different inspection controls which the authorities should carry out on their own. The power of temporary confiscation and storage and sale of objects has been extended to the destruction of a suspected object which cannot be safely transferred to another place. The provision to verify the establishment of telecommunications contact, the collokiously called procurement of communications lists, has been changed entirely. There are clearly cases in which this authority can be applied, namely the prevention and detection of criminal offences that are being prosecuted by official duty and by their perpetrators, the prevention of dangers and violence, and the search for persons and cases. The power to determine the position of the communication device is also prescribed, to identify the place where the persons who establish electronic communication and the identification code of the device are located. They are exactly according to their functions of a particular person who can grant written approval with a level not lower than the chief of police administration, or the person who replaces it. So there is no possibility of transferring this power to other persons. Extraordinary approval may be given orally in urgent situations in order to prevent immediate danger or violence, i.e. for a quick search for persons in which cases it must be written confirmed within 24 hours. As a rule, the subsidiary application of police powers is prescribed if other actions could not or could not achieve the objective of police work or would be linked to disproportionate difficulties. A redefined police authority has also been established to take covered police actions in a way that is prescribed and ambushed in addition to monitoring escorts and traps. A written order to carry out escorts and observations may only be issued by the Chief Director of the Police or by the person who has the power to do so, and in the event of the extension of these actions, only the Chief Director of Police. In order to enable effective control of their implementation of covered actions, observation and escorts, it is mandatory to report to the competent state attorney and chief police director within 48 hours of their completion. Furthermore, the amendments to the provisions on the protection of police officers after the use of coercion funds are prescribed that the Ministry of Interior will provide free legal assistance to a police officer in a procedure that precedes the criminal proceedings, criminal proceedings, and the compensation procedure in relation to the conduct of police affairs carried out in... by the police in accordance with the law. The current law includes provisions that prescribe police treatment of persons with disabilities and persons deprived of their business ability. These provisions aim to ensure additional safeguards, i.e. additional protection against the violation of the rights of these persons in the event of police conduct. An important newspaper that is being introduced is the introduction of civil oversight over the application of certain police powers, which is to verify and establish electronic communication, and covert police actions. In this context, the MUP proposes to set up a council for civil oversight over the application of certain police powers. The other proposed amendments and additions relate to the correction of some of the nomotechnical deficiencies observed or to the content found to be missing. It is important to mention the provision of Article 3a relating to the recording of the conduct of police duties and the application of police powers which must be announced in advance, which should protect citizens from improper, unlawful use of police powers, as well as police officers against unfounded complaints and complaints about their conduct, and which would then further assist as an effective mechanism in combating the prevention or prevention of the fight against corrupt offences. Finally, the amendments to Article 11 and to the added Articles 11a to 11f comply with the provisions of the law with the amendments of the Criminal Procedure Act in the part of the conduct of criminal investigation and the verification of criminal offences. Professional conditions for police investigators have been laid down and a provision on the independence of criminal research has been introduced in cases where there are fundamental doubts that a police officer is the perpetrator or victim of a criminal offence. This final draft law contains certain differences in the provisions governing the establishment and operation of civil oversight councils over the application of certain police powers. These differences, i.e. the addition of earlier articles 102a, 102b, and the addition of new articles 102c to 102nd, were created to respect most of the objections expressed by the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament or representatives in the debate concerning issues relating to the establishment, work and composition of the council. The proposed provisions have been complemented in such a way that the prescribed obligation to submit the monitoring report to the President of the Croatian Parliament and to the Chairs of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and to the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. Provisions laying down the reasons for the exercise of supervision, the established control programme, the request of citizens and state bodies and legal persons have been added. It is prescribed that members of the council shall have deputies and that representatives of the Police Directorate shall participate in the work of the Council in order to provide professional assistance without any decision-making rights. The right to compensation for travel expenses as established for both users and users of the state budget has been laid down, and provisions on the conditions of appointment for a member of the Council as well as the reasons for their resolution have been specified. It is also prescribed that the supervision of the legal work of the council is carried out by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, and that the Council will elect the President and the additional Rules of Procedure to submit to the Croatian Assembly for confirmation. It is noted from the individual debate of Ms Jadranka Kosor's representative that a member of the council should not be punished for any act. The provision is complemented in a way that it is prescribed that a member of the Council may not be a person who is convicted of any crime or is being prosecuted for a criminal offence for which he or she is being prosecuted under official duty or who is convicted of offences or is being prosecuted for offences with the characteristics of violence or for a serious offence for which the sentence of imprisonment is prescribed. With regard to the above, we stress that, as a legislator of the law, the Ministry of Interior and National Security Committee and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities proposed to the Government the adoption of certain amendments to the Committees mentioned. In addition, as regards the debate on Article 102c of the Law, given the nomotechnical but also essential observations raised in the amendments to the Committee on Law and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and given the discussions and suggestions of the members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Ministry has proposed to the Government as an amendment to the amendment of Article 102c of the Law which contains, in an appropriate manner, the embedded observations of those Committees. In the end, respected MPs and MPs, as a result of all of this, the applicant considers that the proposed way of particularly amending and supplementing Article 68 and 80 of the relevant law, and the introduction of civil oversight over the application of certain police powers will achieve an appropriate balance between the legitimate need of the police to apply those hidden measures in the prevention and processing of the most serious criminal offences in the interests of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with legitimate public demands for the exercise of legal control and the application of such measures by the police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83454	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83455	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, you mentioned a council of civil oversight over the application of police powers, you mentioned that this law stipulates that the Council has five members and five deputy members proposed by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of NGOs and that is certainly good, for example. The Board of Appeals has only three members without deputies or deputies, and therefore it is no wonder that last year this commission is for example. Only 25% of the cases arrived, which is not good and which is why our citizens have been denied. And that's why I'm pleased to hear from the Ministry that they are preparing changes and additions, amendments and additions to the Police Act, and I hope Deputy Minister that they will come to these benches, our assembly from your ministry as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83456	Thank you, too. There's no answer. Another replica of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83457	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy deputy. When you spoke of those accepted remarks in relation to the first reading, the truth that they were accepted for civil oversight of the application of certain police powers but also the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities since Mrs. Kosor. However, no comments from that parent committee, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security have been accepted, in fact, accepted any objections from the appointment of investigators, the concept of the use of electronic communications, etc. However, in your address, you said when checking and establishing electronic communications that the request was signed by the Chief of Criminal Police or the Chief of Police of the National Police Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime or the Chief of Police. It's already down to the local level, it actually poses one danger to the influence of local leaders, i.e. ropes at local level. And you mentioned surveillance, video surveillance in Article 3a, that the police were authorized to the extent necessary as well as to monitor the legality of police officers' actions soundly and visually. I'd warn you about that case of a lawyer in Vukovar when there was a surveillance video, but unfortunately there was no footage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83458	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Representatives Kajin, Grubisic. They're gone. They're losing their right to debate. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party club Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83459	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a very important legal text that introduces some new standards in both the police's attitude towards their business and the Parliament's relationship to its own responsibility in overseeing part of police affairs. Liberals in their nature want the state to stay out of the personal life of a man. The Liberals want the state to be as small as possible in the sphere of private life and by putting freedom as the most important value in focus as well as to see the meaning of the state only in ensuring that freedom for each individual and defining where the border of that freedom is and it is actually for us liberals where there is a possible threat to the freedom of another man. The task of the state is therefore to provide security to its citizens and society as a whole. So society is not a society of chaos but a society where rules, order and freedom of man and citizen are ensured. On the other hand, the police are part of a repressive apparatus everywhere in the world and its nature is such that, therefore, every element of the repressive apparatus that extends the space of its activity and legitimate powers, of course always to the heart of general freedoms. That is why it is precisely the job of a good legislator to narrow this area on the one hand but only in those cases where it is a threat to the freedom of citizens but not in those cases where we, as a society and as individuals, are seeking the highest level of efficiency from the police. The paradox of this request is to ask the police to be as visible as possible, to act preventively and to be as effective as possible. That is why it makes this work extremely complex, dangerous, deadly, and very responsible. When we look at, say, a police report last year, then we can see what death in that business means. Unfortunately, last year, a police officer died performing his duty. We can be comforted that our situation is milder and better than other societies, but it will not bring back that one lost life. Likewise, several hundred, over five hundred police officers were injured in their duties. Therefore, when it comes to regulations that define police work, it should always be kept in mind that these rules are laid down in such a way as not to endanger the lives of police officers or that this death or threat arising from the nature of their work is as small as possible. On the other hand, to remove them all, especially pointless bureaucratic or formal obstacles, to be as effective as possible in doing police work as possible, because that is what we are asking them to do. The amendments proposed by this law we at the HNS club, the Croatian People's Break-Liberal Democrats, see exactly that way. So some illogical or simple conclusions arising from the practice so far are corrected, better solutions are introduced and what we are particularly pleased with is the introduction of an entire new institute into the legal text, which is a question of civil oversight of the conduct of certain police affairs. It is good that the Proposer, therefore the Government, and on its behalf, the Ministry of the Interior accepted all the comments made by the Committee on Human Rights and the proposals made in the debate, both at the board and at the plenary session, and that a set of new articles was created, 102 from c) to (e) which regulated these issues, therefore civil surveillance issues. This is extremely important because the police have to reach out sometimes for action in the area that is the most frigid when it comes to the preservation of human rights, which is monitoring and that is the availability of personal data. It is therefore important that this control works, just as it is important that the powers to carry out these tasks are issued in a way that implies the highest level of responsibility. I will return to the police affairs report last year, so I will only point out that last year, as you saw, there were 4310 use of coercion funds, slightly less than a year ago, and that only in two cases it was found that the coercion was used legally and in one case in the shooting of firearms in the air for warning and in one case in the use of physical force in the conduct of police work. 2 to 4310 is indeed very small and commendable. We hope that the introduction of a civil surveillance institute over certain police operations will actually show no worse statistics than this. We believe in high professionalism, ethics, adherence to the professional principles of the Croatian police. The HNS-Liberal Democrats, our party's club, in this sense supports the bill and we will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83460	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83461	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister with Assistant Minister, colleague and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers. It is a proposal which, on the one hand, is in line with the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Criminal Procedure Act, which entered into force on 15 December 2013, followed by compliance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 19 July 2012, as well as the harmonisation and transposition of the Council Framework Decision of 13 June 2002 on Joint Investigation Teams and Council Framework Decision of 27 November 2008 on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, in view of the nosetriification of the Law on Police Affairs and Powers by the European Commission, the Council of the European Central Bank. Since the amendment has already passed the first reading and has not suffered any major criticism here, I will look at the differences between the amendments and the addition of the law in the first reading and the final proposal for amendments to the law. I would also take advantage of the opportunity and I would like to commend, in principle, the motion that has respected the opinion of all committees more or less, and that of both the parent and the Committee on Human Rights, and has practically accepted it, and I believe that the Government will accept all amendments. What is most intrigued in this proposal are provisions aimed at introducing different and stronger control over the application of certain police powers in a way that will reconcile the need and public interest to monitor the need of the Police for the speedy and effective application of powers, all for the purpose of preventing crime and detecting and processing the perpetrators of criminal offences, especially those most difficult. And that's exactly where the biggest changes are from the amendment and the additions in the first reading. In the final proposal for a law on police affairs and powers, much better elaborated is the procedure for proposing and selecting the Civil Supervisory Council, which is first introduced into the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, more specifically the purpose of its existence. The existing articles in the proposal for a law in the first reading of 102 and 102b in the final proposal for a law have been extended to Articles 102c, 102d and 102e. Through the mentioned articles of the law, it is defined that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Croatian Parliament appoints and resolves members of the Civil Supervisory Council, five members and five deputy members who are representatives of the citizens, and at the proposal of civil society organisations, scientific and professional organisations and NGOs. We also heard from the deputies that it was accepted that the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security is practically calling for members to be appointed. The work of the Council as well as professional assistance shall be attended by a representative from the Police Directorate appointed by the Director-General without the right to decide. It is further defined in Article 126(5) who may be a member and a deputy member of the Council, but also that a thorough security check is carried out for all members and alternate members of the Council in accordance with the specific law governing the area of security checks. Members and alternate members of the Council shall meet the conditions laid down by a special law governing the protection of the confidentiality of data, i.e. they must possess a certificate as referred to as coloquial. All members and alternate members shall be appointed at the time of 4 years with the possibility of re-naming. In the same article, paragraph 9, the conditions under which a member, or a member of a council member, may be resolved before the expiry of the period to which he is appointed shall be defined. Members and deputies of Council members for their work pursuant to Article 102d. They are responsible for the Croatian Parliament, and supervision of the legality of the work of the Council should be carried out by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The Council shall carry out its work on the basis of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council, and shall confirm again the Croatian Parliament. Article 102a point 3. The Council is defined as requesting a comparison of the data available to all data of the Police Directorate on applicable powers in the exercise of police powers by the Operational Technical Centre for Telecommunications. Point 4 of the same article of the final proposal of the Law on Police Affairs and Powers also brings the power of the Council to carry out audits of reports and other police documents, to seek written indications, and to clarify the allegations it may also conduct talks with managers and police officers who have approved and applied the powers applied. If we look at the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Police Affairs and first reading powers in relation to the final proposal, we will easily determine that the Civilian Oversight Council has received quite broad powers, that matter is much better defined and elaborated than the proposal for a law in the first reading and that it is certainly necessary to make police work more transparent and especially that this is the way to monitor the use of police powers. If we know that most of these powers that need to be monitored by the Civil Surveillance Council are indistinguishably in human rights, and to remind me, it is about verifying authenticity, the duration of the frequency of communication with certain electronic communications addresses or colloktially called lists of numbers as well as observation, escorts, traps, ambushes. You mention the powers by their nature and nature and in the privacy of people, then it is very clear that it is important that there is no abuse of these powers, and if there is one to determine who committed the abuse of power and that sanctions are imposed in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia. This is the proposed solution to the election and the part-round work of the Civil Control Council over the application of police powers to us at the SDP club. We certainly welcome the introduction of civil surveillance over the use of police powers. Looking at the amendments and additions to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, we fully support the way the motionors think, in particular, about who and when it is authorised to apply the powers of the list, then the observation, the ensuing traps and ambushes, because for the first time it is known who is to approve the exact application of those powers, who is responsible for its application and the time limit within which a state attorney should be informed. And that's exactly what we at the SDP club are expecting and looking for. A clear system of application of powers that will be effective but not subject to abuse. The SDP club will support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Police Affairs and Powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83462	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Deputy, assistant. For us, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, given what is being said in the introduction in the explanation and the amendments that followed. I would only hold on to some things that are not accepted or accepted, some that may be accepted, but since the amendments have not yet been seen then we need to remind ourselves of these possible differences. First, the rest is with the Civil Surveillance Council for the application of police powers, and the proposal that was on the Committee on Internal Policy has not been adopted to extend the powers of the Civil Surveillance Council over the security intelligence agencies so that this is coming up, in my opinion we will have a overlap, i.e. we will have two bodies dealing with the same business but there will be differences in the institutions where it works. Another thing about here is that something is said here, but it is not yet clear how it will be done in amendments, or improved. For the purposes of Article 102c of the Treaty, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 102c of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with Article 102c of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and with Article 102c of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and with Article 102c of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and with Article 102c of the We have a sign, but we haven't seen the amendment yet. Second, we'll have a problem with Article 102c. the third indent, where members and deputies of the council are said to be persons who enjoy professional and personal reputation in the public, and perform their function as an honorary function. Here you have two problems, which is that first this honorary function when translated into Croatian means work free of charge because then they are in an unequal relationship with other commissions where this is paid, and on the other hand the problem is in this when they say they have a professional and personal reputation. In what? In what area? I can have professional reputation in one area, and have no competence for this area. Therefore, this is simply not defined and there may be some discrepancies. Third, in the same article, paragraph 6 states who submits a request for a thorough security check and when. Here it will be, here's just one problem basic security check requires time. And if we do, and now it's a clear matter of dilemma if that basic security check is carried out in advance, before the election, then the security services will be told that they will select candidates. And if it's later, we can get into a situation where someone doesn't pass security clearance. And then that's the problem that's not solved well, which remains open. A indent of the 7th of the same article is as already warned between the basic security clearance and the belief to access classified data, i.e. the certificate, which is a long-term procedure. So the appointment process itself will take several months with the possibility of someone not getting that certificate. And it's going to be double-probleming because it's simply someone who can be qualified but simply to say unsuitable for that kind of work, and it can later disqualify him for something else. It's just that I have experience like that, and you have people who can't keep quiet about what they're doing, and by the way, they're great. So that's the problem that stays. Furthermore, to speed up a little bit, Article 102a should extend the competence of the Civil Surveillance Council to also apply to Article 28 concerning the police powers which say that citizens have the right to see and correct personal data contained in the personal data collection concerned. This Council does not have the authority to verify this as well as Article 24 on police matters which states the right to gain insight into such data provided to other countries on the basis of international cooperation agreements. In other words, this won't happen if someone complains about this Civil Council won't have it if it doesn't get in. There will be a lot of problems with what we know now in the second law if you commit a crime in Austria, so here you charge or vice versa, and there will be misunderstandings people will complain. So it could be a very real situation. So the other problem is what I have already said to persons who have professional reputation, and are proposed by civil society organisations, scientific and professional NGOs, which is then the question of whether such persons will be able to have a reputation professional and personal, but whether they will be able to carry out professional supervision. Perhaps another thing to be warned about, which this law did not cover, which is the jurisdiction of internal control which is part of the ministry in the cabinet of the minister. The objectively this internal control should be on the one hand loyal to the profession but also to the minister and to him, and in my opinion it should be responsible to the Croatian Parliament or to one body of the Croatian Parliament in order to have adequate independence and to be independent of both the Director of the Police and the Minister of Interior. In order to be able to say autonomously, to be basically it is the only expert body available for supervision and control, so that the competent parliamentary authorities can use this internal control to carry out certain expert surveillance on issues that are in charge of, say, the Internal Policy Committee. I think it's one key, one of the essential shortcomings that this law has not defined. To be honest, I also said in my first reading that I do not see the reasons for some of the provisions that should remain in the jurisdiction of the police, I see no reason why investigators should appoint a state director, appoints a head director with a previously obtained opinion of a state attorney. The police must have their independence in my opinion. Just as I don't see that the professional training program, with the previous opinion of the Attorney General, makes a decision by the Minister, I think it should be some body that deals with professional education, or these programmes, rather than these solutions. Here, that's it. And HDZ will vote depending on the amendments when we see them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83464	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83465	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate. The final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Powers, Professor Tudjman just now carefully analyzed every article of this law and so deeply, and given that it was a domain, entered this text that all that man would say was almost said. However, I must say something and say mine and what would be original, Article 102c says, so it is a council for civil oversight of the application of police powers, so in this council, this council makes up 5 members and 5 deputy members of citizens who appoint and resolve the Croatian Assembly on the proposal of civil society organisations, scientific and professional organisations, and NGOs. So, it's about that, I wanted to point out who suggested it to council members, civil society organisations, scientific and professional organisations, and NGOs. Civil society organizations, thank God we have nothing against them, but can you choose to say a member not proposed by the civil society organisation? Furthermore, Article 102c(3) reads "Members and deputies of council members are persons who enjoy professional and personal reputation in medicine, in literature, in biology, in chemistry, in mathematics, in economy, right in what, professional but also says personal reputation." And who or what kind of civil society does he personally see if he already proposes it? What measures and what criteria, then, in public? He performs his post as a member of this council as an honorary function. It is a good change or a good setting and a text in paragraph 5 that, at last, those against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted, therefore only lead, which has not been ruled or where the criminal proceedings have not been completed, but the criminal proceedings can also not, and by official duty, be members of the council or alternate members of the council. That paragraph 5 reads "That a member and a deputy council cannot be a person who is convicted, of course, of a criminal offence or is being prosecuted for a criminal offence that is being prosecuted under official duty." What is particularly highlighted in this legislative proposal, or as they say, is an apostrophe of covert police actions, and four measures or actions are listed, one is observation, the other is an escort, a third trap and at the end of the fourth session. Interestingly, who gives a warrant for covered police operations if they last for 15 days, plus 15 if the Director of the Police says the Director gives a new warrant for 15 days to conduct undercover police operations. What is particularly true in Croatia and in recent years in the development of electronic media and electronics in total, communication of electronics, not media, but communication of electronics is important that there is more and more opportunities for this communication through electronics, to be monitored and to carry out these actions that are just mentioned here, exactly hidden actions. Since the game is near and Shucker tells me to finish, in any case, if a few mended the text mainly in terms of exact expression, so who can be a member of the Board of Review, for civil oversight of the application of police powers, and that's what's the point of all this, and we see that we have a problem here the last days when and some information girl. So then this centre that monitors all possible, all possible electronic communications, from which it is always possible to extract any electronic communication, and to compare it with some far stronger countries that follow and Mrs. Merkel, etc. I think a little bit, given that all the links are tied up in that center, that we're a little bit living in a big brownie, and there isn't, that what it says is that hidden police actions are actually, I'm not going to say that they become everyday, but given the high rate of certain actions that we do, I'm not going to say in what forms, we're kind of living in a big brownie, as I said in a previous debate. Since this formulation and appointment of members of the Civil Surveillance Committee can still be improved a little bit, I think the HDSSB club will be for this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83466	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Nenad Stazic, vice president, is gone. He's losing his right to debate. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, gone. He's losing his right to debate. Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83467	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'll try to make the best of it by welcoming you and the Deputy Minister. My colleagues and colleagues, in fact, this draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Police Powers continues to be inadequately regulated in fact by this independent police oversight, which we also talked about at this Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, so I may just repeat some things at this plenary session. The police and the entire legislative framework already in line with the EU now need to change these amendments and additions, which we do not think is good. These investigators set up the DORH as we heard the CEO of the MUP, which is also not good, Article 11c, because of the government's tridivision in state, legislative, judicial and executive authorities, but it replaces them although they are not... based on Article 11d. There are, of course, certain things missing that... remind you of past times that are actually not good with this law. Already in Article 2, paragraph 1 in point 7 makes us happy by how criminal research will be carried out when there is a suspicion that a certain phenomenon threatens or could endanger everything and everything inclusive and that a common offense may occur in some undefined future that we consider not to be good, myself. The government also foresees to collect information that may be useful for the successful conduct of criminal or criminal proceedings, at least it stands. It's interesting that this future can be because it doesn't have to be, but the MUP will still do it, covert police actions, so citizens will, in their own right, be exposed almost without any control to what we've heard and the observation and the traps, the ambush, but also the escort, that's Article 80, and the police may and may not have to record. If after all these actions, a citizen and a political opponent are found guilty of nothing, the law further states that the footage will be kept for 90 days. I don't see any reason why these tapes should be kept unless we're afraid of some inner enemy. The reintroduction of torture, article 11f actually predicts that the suspect who responded to the police's call for the collected notices will be detained for 6 hours, at the station of course for questioning. These may have been compared to before improvement since we know that it was somewhere around 72 hours, now it's six hours. It should also be seen that these things are not recorded even though, for example, in America and in England, they proved to be extremely good, in accordance with Article 3a, paragraph 1. It should be pointed out here that whoever is the suspect is not also the defendant, as the defendant is not a convict, until it is proved legally to him. So, almost certainly an innocent person has six hours of torture. Who actually pays for that six-hour torture, lost time and nerves? In my opinion, a citizen can stand up and leave, and if he wants to, the MUP can get evidence to arrest him. The mutilation of minors now takes a special form. The legislator of Article 18 provides that the parents of a minor will be removed as he examines it if it is suspicious, and it is doubtful that it is actually in the same address, a minor and her parent who is definitely not well. It's actually a fig leaf that's... prime minister, and the president of the state, actually, is meant to return certain methods and powers that we've witnessed in the former system and former state form. By the way, the president hasn't even called about this. Now what the colleagues were talking about, and we talked about it often on the board, it was actually a committee to handle the complaints of the MUP, some of the colleagues said they had 3 members, unfortunately not 3, but rather 2, but they are not refunding any costs and their effectiveness is almost nothing. In addition to these 2 existing ones, another one is now being proposed, and that is civil oversight of the application of certain police powers. It is forgotten, in fact, that there are certain problems from before, the question of the effectiveness of the commission itself. The members of this committee, by chance or on purpose, do not have resolved legal status which would have been unquestioned, in which the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities took its stand, which it sent to the Government still seems to me in the month of April, but until today nothing really happened. The Civil Surveillance Council over the application of certain police powers, these supervisors are, in fact, prevented from physically entering the premises in which telecommunications is being tapped and that department is operating technical centre, OTC, which has no control over the work of PNUSKOK, and cannot launch investigations on their own. The criteria for members of that council are a special story because the scale is low, that's what Professor Tudjman was talking about on behalf of the HDZ Club, so I'm not going to repeat myself at this point, but I think it's an important example that I have to give. For example, why not in this team, as stated in the field of legal science, electrical engineering or information technology or communication technology, be one psychologist who can actually see when police are not telling the truth or doctor, biochemist because of art, or perhaps an economist who can better identify actually economic crime or a fictional political story in the tax administration. According to this, this criterion is discriminatory. Speaking of art, I will visit the Center for Forensic Research, Ivan Lučetić has over 20 different academic specialities, but also subsessions which are very important, and for example, the Ballistics Laboratory was led by a master of engineering engineers, because only at the Faculty of Engineering, Shipbuilding and Aeronautics were taught tribology, so important for the internal ballistics of the pipe, but obviously it was not taken into account. At the very end of the short term in Article 102c is added behind the word that it is not a citizen of the Republic of Croatia and if it is not the proper training of the least master of the profession which I think should definitely be thrown out because you heard it and from the talks of almost all MPs at this afternoon's session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83468	Thank you. Alan Prelec, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83469	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy, associate. First of all, I must say that this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers is a good law, clearly there are things that may be upgraded there but what my colleague Grubisic was saying, and I would especially point out that this article is the 28th one that says that police may take hidden police actions during criminal research if it is obvious that other actions will not achieve the goal of police work. Undercover police actions are surveillance, escorts, traps, ambushes. In addition to this, the concept of criminal research has been redefined or extended and adapted to the real and real frameworks of police conduct. Under this final draft law, criminal research would cover those powers, measures and actions that police take when they reveal, within their jurisdiction, the criminal offences, the search for their perpetrators or finds and provides clues whose scope and understanding is in line with the criminal practice achieved. However, I did not want to speak only about the final draft laws and amendments but to touch the co-operation of police and local self-government units. I must point out that today, unfortunately, the co-operation between the police and the head of the local self-government unit may be bigger than ever before. In fact, we know what the problems in society are, and in fact local self-government units are the cornerstone of all these problems. The first co-operation between the police and local self-government units we had here amongst the MPs is a debate on the Council for Preventions which all units of local self-government should have as something that prevents crime in all areas of the local self-government unit. I have to say from my experience that it's a good practice, that here I am as chief of staff after the establishment of the prevention council I've never worked better with the chief of police and we've never been more effective. Of course it's a good thing, but another thing is the contact of the cops we had at the local self-government units. I am one of the major municipalities in Croatia, unfortunately we do not have enough police contact available, and it is necessary that this co-operation between the local self-government unit and the police to prevent crime at one high level. I think that's where we should do it, maybe if it's possible more that not only those larger units of local self-government are available to contact cops than the smaller ones. The joint business between the police and the local self-government unit is clearly linked primarily to domestic violence, a juvenile delinquency that is unfortunately more and more, but it is a common task to say to us leaders who run local self-government units, and above all to prevent it. But here I am, so I don't owe too much, I thought I'd give one initiative, and the police will know what I'm talking about, and all those who are the leaders of the local self-government unit, something that's causing us big problems, these are mostly nightclubs. Night clubs that cause big, big problems in local self-government units. Our cafes work by law until 12 o'clock, possibly for one, two hours if they have a special license it's usually 12 o'clock, night clubs take over all that youth after that 12 o'clock. They're mostly alcoholics, there's drugs and then it becomes a problem of potency. Our nightclubs work till 5:00, 6:00 in the morning, and these are the obvious problems the police know best. I have an example here in the town of Zapresic where the nightclub works until 5:00, 6:00, no weekends when there is no incident, almost no. I know a country in Europe that was a hit destination for nightlife, they shut down nightclubs overnight and limited to 2 hours a night. I think it's something that we should think about to reduce the problems in our society. And just another brief depression, I have no objections, major objections to police conduct and work, but I have court proceedings. How many times have the police done their job, and then the minors, I'm talking about juvenile delinquency coming to court and they're letting them go even though it's more serious criminal acts. I don't think I'd be too long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83470	Thank you, too. And, finally, the Deputy Minister. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83471	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. I'd just like a short piece. The amendment proposed that the selection process of this council for civil oversight of the application of police authority should be implemented by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. So that argument of yours, everything you've brought out, we've accepted it, and you're going to make a public call and make a choice of candidates for that council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83472	Thank you, Deputy Minister. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83473	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, second reading, P.Z. No. 618. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure to vote that the amendment is being discussed and decided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 73 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 26 abstentions have been accepted to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like the representative of the renowned Deputy Minister of the Interior, Evelyn Tonkovic, to come forward. Amendment number, only one amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go, my dear.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83474	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, during the debate on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on police affairs and powers before the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, amendments were submitted to Article 32 of the final draft of the law in the section adding Article 102c. While the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security has problemed the issue of a more precise determination of the committee's competence with regard to the calling for a public call to highlight the candidates for membership in the Council for Civil Control over the application of certain police powers, as well as the role of that committee in determining the prescribed conditions of the persons who have applied for membership in the Council. In the light of the above, the applicant shall submit an amendment to Article 32 of the final proposal for a law in the part of which Article 102c is added, covering the amendments submitted as well as other highlighted proposals to improve content, the expressions of Article 102c.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83475	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm giving a statement, who's for the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 83 votes in favour and 30 votes against, have adopted the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, thus becoming an integral part of the final draft of the law. Dear Deputy Minister, we have amendments to the Legislative Committee. Amendment No 1 to Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83476	Thank you. The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83477	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 2 to Article 32
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83478	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83479	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83480	The amendment shall not be accepted on the grounds that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted an amendment to Article 32 in the part in which the new Article 102c is added, which amends Article 102c in its entirety and thus covers the proposals set out in the abovementioned amendment to the Committee on Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83481	Thank you very much. I think he's happy with that. Thank you very much. Amendment number 2 of the Legislative Committee, which is unnecessary, has been withdrawn. Please Deputy Minister, Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83482	Thank you. The amendment to Article 32 shall be adopted in the amended form as follows: "Article 32a, Article 102a, paragraph 5 shall be amended and read as follows, the report on the knowledge and data collected in the exercise of supervision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be submitted by the Council within 15 days to the President of the Croatian Parliament, the Presidents of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament, the Minister of Interior and the Director-General.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83483	The applicant for the amendment, the chairman of the board...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83484	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83485	Amendment holder, Chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Honored Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83486	I can't, as chairman of the board, withdraw the amendment because I'm just one of the board members, even if I'm the first member of the board, and then I'll vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83487	The amendment of the Committee on Human Rights has therefore been adopted in the amended form. Please, then, who's for the amendment of the Human Rights Committee to raise your hand? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment number two of the same committee, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83488	The amendment to Article 32 shall be adopted in part in the section amending subparagraph 1 in Article 102b so as to read, in Article 32, Article 102b of subparagraph 1 is amended as follows: the monitoring programme set out by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, with the opinion of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. As long as the addition of a new subparagraph 4 is not accepted for the reason that this final draft law provides that the Council for Civil Oversight over the application of certain police powers shall act and exercise control over the application of these police powers only when the citizens, state authorities and legal persons who consider that their rights have been violated by the law of Article 68 and 80 of the Law. The Council, whose basic function is to verify the methodology and conduct of the police in the application of the powers laid down in Articles 68 and 80 of the Law after the completion of the criminal investigation, during which those powers are applied cannot play a role as a separate body of research which, on the basis of its own indications, would carry out independent actions to determine possible irregularities in relation to the suspected use of power.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83489	On behalf of the applicant, the chairman of the Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83490	Thank you very much. For the same reasons as before for withdrawing the amendment I should call a committee and it was not very popular the last days of the session. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83491	Okay. So, for the part that didn't accept the government, please plead. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number three of the same committee. Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83492	Thank you very much, President. The third amendment is not accepted. The amendment shall not be accepted on the grounds that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted an amendment to Article 32 in which a new Article 102c is added, which amends Article 102c in its entirety, and thus covers a part of the proposal submitted to the abovementioned amendment by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The amendment to the proposal for amendments to Article 102c has adopted parts of the above-mentioned amendment referred to in paragraphs 2 and 4 and parts of the amendments referred to in Article 5(2). and paragraph 7 is not accepted. Namely, if it is not necessary to prevent citizens from applying for a member of a member of the board according to the criteria of the field of science in which they have experience or the height of the expert training. In addition, if the same question is accepted, what is the relevant experience in the field of science referred to in paragraph 5 of the Human Rights and Rights Committee of the National Minorities and in order to determine it. Furthermore, as regards the establishment of compensation for members of council members, the applicants of the items if the case is not a particular case, but rather of a voluntary or honorable function, the citizens themselves appear voluntarily on the basis of a public call, and the motive for membership in the council should not be a financial interest but a protection of the rights of the citizens who will oversee complaints about possible illegalities in police proceedings. In addition to this, the economic circumstances have changed significantly and the economic deficit procedure has been initiated and there have been changed circumstances regarding the possibility of taking new expenditure on the burden of budgetary resources, which has provided an additional need to re-examine all the rights and expenditures which go to the burden of the state budget. In view of the need to implement the savings of the state budget over the past period, a number of measures have been introduced in which all the beneficiaries of the state budget are participated, and so, in a series of bodies established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, labour compensation has been reduced or abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83493	Thank you very much. The committee shall be chaired by the chair of the committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83494	Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83495	I ask that we declare Amendment 3 to the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities which the Government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much, I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. That's why we've exhausted the amendments. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes were 83 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 10 abstentions passed by P.Z. No. 618 in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83496	We continue with: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 683; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. We've got the Deputy Minister with us, opening deputy, do you want to? Here you go, a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83497	Yes, thank you, Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. We'll give it a short try in this one lapidary display. The proposed amendments to the Road Safety Act of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the decisions of the Constitutional Court and of the Croatian legal order are in line with the legal acquis of the European Union in relation to the Commission's implementing Directive... From 27 February 2014 amending Council Directive 9167/EEC as regards the mandatory use of safety belts and child restraint systems in vehicles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, in accordance with the 2014 normative plan, amendments to the road safety laws are planned in parts relating to the ban on the use of mobiles during driving, driving vehicles under the influence of drugs or medicines, and the increase of fines for violations caused by a traffic accident. The relevant provisions of the Road Safety Act have not so far been prohibited by tram drivers or bicycles to use mobile or other devices during driving and this can certainly be dangerous for their own safety as well as for the safety of other traffic participants. By deleting the word "engine" and "engine" in Article 196(3). The traffic safety law on roadblocks of use of mobiles and other devices extends to all drivers of all vehicles. Also applicable provisions of the Road Safety Act prohibit driving or transport on a moped or motorcycle of a person who has drugs or medicines in the body that affect psychophysical abilities and the ability to drive. Since some medicines and drugs are kept in the body much longer than the active substances affect the ability to drive and there are persons who are on the prescribed therapy with some medicine that affects the psychophysical abilities and ability to drive but in the prescribed therapy and... their basic symptoms enter the so-called The peaceful phase, no longer under the influence of the medicinal product, requires a ban on driving, i.e. a ban on the transportation of persons on the moped or motorcycle only for people who are under the influence of drugs or medicines. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with the applicable provisions of the Road Safety Act, it is prescribed that infringements under this Act which cause a traffic accident only with material damage will be punished by the perpetrator of the offence by a fine prescribed for that offence increased by a amount of 1000 kuna. In this way, all offenders for whom a fine of up to 1000 kuna is prescribed and who are caused by a traffic accident only with material damage can pay the penalty at the scene of the infringement at the level of half of the prescribed minimum fine, which is these cases half of the prescribed amount for the basic offence without an increase to cause a traffic accident or a maximum of 500 kuna, it is extremely minor. Without conduct of criminal proceedings and without entry into the criminal record, which is not appropriate to the consequences of the infringement. The proposed amendments are prescribed to increase the fines for a fixed amount of 1000 kuna, which largely avoids playing out provisions to increase the fine for offences caused by a traffic accident. In line with this, it is also proposed to increase the fine of 2000 kuna for the offence caused by a car accident with injured persons. These changes do not increase the maximum amounts for which fines can be increased but are only prescribed to increase them in the exact amount previously prescribed as the above. Of the other amendments, it should be mentioned that driving licences and Croatian citizens who do not have a registered residence in the Republic of Croatia will be made possible but have a registered residence for a period of at least 185 days. Less errors are corrected than the provisions on the validity of driver's licenses. An amended provision requiring a health examination obligation in such a way that the driver’s licence can no longer be extended after 65 years of age without medical examination and the vehicle’s check-out obligations have been worked out in case of expiry of the vehicle registration and in case of transfer of vehicle ownership to another person. Finally, the authority to keep records of the offences and their perpetrators and of traffic accidents and other traffic events on roads as well as deadlines for keeping those data shall be prescribed. In accordance with the new structure of the central authorities of the State Administration, the competence of the market inspectors of the Ministry of Economy to carry out inspection supervision of the application of vehicle type-approval regulations and parts of the vehicle is prescribed and the hierarchy of traffic rules is more clearly prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83498	Thank you. We have one replica of Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83499	Thank you very much. In short, I was inspired by the proposal's speech, how much traffic safety is affected by the use of cell phones while driving, so the use of belts does not affect the safety of drivers and road users themselves. However, I am interested in whether or not the applicant has considered whether or not to analyse the impact of smoking during driving on driver concentration and on participation in traffic accidents. Is the use of a cell phone or smoking more influential? How many times do they have to light a cigarette while they're shutting down, they're looking for an ashtray, they're losing concentration, and I don't know if it's more dangerous right now or if it's supposed to be in town, like, 30, 40 or 50, and there's no seat belt, they're going to pay 1,000 kuna fines, and someone who smokes at every traffic light can put someone at risk, and there's no sanctions. Has the promoter considered whether smoking affects traffic safety and while driving, of course? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83500	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Grubisic-Kain. No, they're losing their right to debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83501	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy. First of all, I have to say in my personal name that I don't really like what you've been saying to my colleague Maric. It's still mine... so I'd still smoke in it if I wanted to, but good. We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Road Safety Act, which brings amendments and additions into line with the legal acquis of the European Union. These amendments and additions to the article and list all the directives relating to which the law on... It was therefore necessary for the European Commission to include them in the text of the law. Article 2 is amended as follows: Article 3 of Article 161 prohibits the transport of bicycles, mopeds and motorcycles of persons under the influence of drugs or medicines, since some drugs or drugs are kept in the body for much longer than active substances affect their ability to drive. In view of this, it is necessary to prescribe a ban on driving only for persons who are under the influence of active substances affecting the ability to drive medicines, and that is exactly what has been done with these changes and additions through several articles. Article 4 amends the provisions concerning the transport of children by motor vehicles, and this particular Article 4 was, in some sense, some way called the source of dispute on boards because there were certain objections during the public debate, and there were also complaints on committees. It is clear that we are not able to amend the provisions of Commission Implementing Directive 2014/37 of the EU amending Council Directive 91671 EC as regards the obligation to use safety belts and child restraint systems in vehicles. However, what we can and would do is ask the legislator of the law to make a clearer statement of Article 4 of the amendment and the addition to which Article 163 paragraph 5 of the Law is amended, especially since this article applies to our citizens and also applies to the youngest population and ultimately I believe that the law must be fully clear as to what exactly it applies, and in particular that the legal sanctions for not keeping that article are set at 500 kn. Article 6 is amended as follows: The Law on Road Safety in a way to erase the words of motor and motor vehicles, which was also spoken by the Deputy Minister. Otherwise, this article discusses a ban on the use of a cell phone during a drive without so - called drive. hands free supplements. So far, this ban has been applied exclusively to motor vehicle drivers, but are, for example, motor vehicles. cyclists or tram drivers miraculously could use a phone without legal sanctions without a device that allows it to be used without using its hands. In this way, all drivers are put in the same position and are certainly improving traffic safety. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The road safety law corrects the perceived error in the text of the applicable law and corrects it in the way set out in the driver’s license Directive. Article 11 is amended in Article 222(2) in such a way as to prescribe a health examination obligation for the extension of the driving licence after 65 years of life. All those drivers who have received an extension so far under current rules are not required until the expiry of the period on which they have been granted an extension to access the health check, regardless of the years of life. So they'll do a health check at the moment when they really run out of driver's license. In addition, these amendments and additions are regulated by the vehicle checkout procedure, the deadlines in which the owner is required to perform the check-out, issue test plates, carry out the costs of alcohol testing, or drug testing. The SDP Club will support this proposal to amend and supplement the Road Safety Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83502	Thank you. We have one replica, colleague Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83503	15 seconds won't take much. Your colleague Vidovic, you said that you disagreed and that people in your opinion disagreed, that you could do whatever you wanted to do in your car and smoke. Safety or insecurity in transport has been demonstrated to be the most affected by speed, alcohol and deconcentration, respectively. And what affects the reduction of attention, attention is certainly a phone conversation and that is the road safety law resolved. I was just asking if there was an analysis, if there were any research, whether or not smoking affects deconcentration. But if you're going to work in a car when you're driving what you want, then you can drink, you can talk, you can do drugs, you can smoke, you can do whatever you want, but you can't do it for others, not for yourself, and you'd be better off not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83504	Thank you for your response, Comrade Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83505	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague Maric, I think you took me a little too seriously. So I am a smoker and since lately the hack's all on smokers and in restaurants, and over here, and over there, it sounds kind of rough in my ears, now and in our cars that we have a problem. There you go. Thank you. And otherwise you're right about the rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83506	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83507	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Here is a technical law that is consistent with the European Union, however, it needs to be looked back at these few things that you've talked about, and it concerns what the predecessor said, Article 4, which refers to Article 163 of the existing law, paragraphs 4 and 5, because obviously now you're going to have to be a cop... with meters and those of 2 meters that can properly measure how much diet is, is one meter and 50 or is below it or is more than that. I think that's what this is, and the board agrees with that, and everyone is quite inaccurately defined so that it would be good if it were possible for these changes to be made by the basis of all these remarks that were heard here today, without being brought into trouble tomorrow and by cops, and by people who will then have to measure the children, measure the height and see if the child will sit on the left or right, forward or back. In particular, I would disagree with these medical examinations, which are, meaning Article 11, which refers to Article 222 of the article, because it is another blow to the pensioners. There's a lot of people here in the Parliament who are now sixty-five years old, and you see how vital they are. They're all good MPs, bright, and now that he's 65, he's got to go for a health checkup. That's what we can say is that it's also a hit on the retirement standard, because other than everything else, we're going to do it when he turns 65 that he has to go for a health check. I think it would be more logical that it's the primary protection doctor's responsibility that they, regardless of the age, report to the police or someone. I know, he won't go into conflict with his patient, but he also has responsibilities, medical ethics and the responsibility of a doctor to take care of his patient and to report if he estimates he's in trouble, health problems with driving that he's obliged to report to the responsible or the police or I don't know someone he'd already predicted in the law and then go to a health check. And this is not clear to me that only my badge has brought me 10 years or to you, so after 10 years I have to go back to health checkup if I understand that correctly. ... And it's moving, it's just moving on to our new impact on the standard of suites, people, citizens, and here I think in that sense it wouldn't be good. [[You can't hear it.]] It would be good to make it right if possible. I think there are better ways to do this than this, that when you turn 65 or 10 years old, we pass on a little responsibility to these people, or to doctors, to those who have an obligation, and in the end they get a head start and they're responsible for the patient's health condition, and that they're the ones who have to report if there are any disorders, any problems in the health condition of their patient, which is also the driver. I am also not clear in this Article 22, which applies to Article 282(5), why we rejected this mandatory. A policeman is required, because then he remains free will. A cop makes a record of why it's mandatory to throw it out. It could've stayed, I don't see what really bothers that it's necessarily being thrown out. When we transport people who have some drug problems, alcohol would then put the driver in one unpleasant role. You should every time someone's testing he's doing. How do you know if a colleague is taking some means away from you and you're not aware of it and that he's acting normal, that he's not acting abnormally so that you should know now. You are responsible if you sit in your vehicle, i.e. on your bike or moped. You know what the experience is that people are friends, acquaintances, give me a lift. You transfer him, so why do I have to test him now, or if the police catch him, am I gonna be guilty because he might be taking some medicine or something? This thing about cell phones is okay. But I think since this law is too important, this Transport Safety Act is important for drivers. We're all mostly drivers and for the citizens who, these drivers can make a problem would be, it's a pity that there's not a little bit more stuff here that came out of the public debate to be read and they're related to the fact that this law might spread a little bit and the state that here at the local administration to try to see that local administration... More and more powers of the traffic police, i.e. communal officers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Communal directors are services in cities and municipalities paid by citizens and it would be good if they were used or helped in the city because the mayor is responsible for everything. Citizens of the mayor are calling for all the problems in the city, and then also for those communal directors to give a little more power to these traffic regulations and traffic regulations, so that this could be inserted into this law and that we also have illogicalities. There's got to be a lot of trouble. I mean this law is before, touching a lot of citizens and all of us, so it makes sense that we have problems. Here you know there's a road there through Kaštela New Four-way with a closed, closed, fenced from all sides and a license of 80 km. And that road can have far more speed because it was according to Dugopol, they have now changed these signs and that there is little more authority for cities and municipalities, or cities and municipalities to suggest and that on such roads that are safe, which are protected, fenced two wheeled tracks have and there is no reason to be a speed of 80 km per hour. That something in this sense and in this law was defined by that, beyond that eternal problem of a young driver, young drivers and that restriction. There's a lot of objections, and I've talked a lot to the citizens, so they warned me about the 18-year-old right driving, so three-year-old young driver, and the 23-year-old guy, and then he's just a year-old young driver. I think there should be something in the law when it's already changing this law that you should think about it like lighting lights. It's the same thing that's a good observation of lighting lights in the city, the one in the winter period when it's wintertime, and then the lights are on through the city. It's logical out of town, but in the city itself, I don't think it should be so strict. Like some of the benefits that have been shown through public debate, these are related to electric cars, i.e. all of these alternative energy sources. It would be useful to help through and through this law, to stimulate such vehicles to have some relief. Not as far as security is concerned, but as far as we can make it easier for people to simply point out that these vehicles are more used and that such vehicles are used for environmental purposes, but also for the health of citizens. Here's so much for this. I think there's something that can be appreciated from this, if it's respected that we could accept such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83508	Thank you. We have one replica, Nenad Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83509	Comrade Sanader, you have touched the issue of driving licences to persons over 65 years of age and also with a period of validity of 10 years. So I'm also thinking that this 10-year-old driving license thing is unnecessary because it's just an extra blow to the citizens. I would support this exposure with the fact that today we still have the possibility that when you notice that a certain person has had some changes that might affect driving management so that it can possibly report to the MUP and that this person is then invited to additional art and medical examination and then to establish the ability to drive a motor vehicle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83510	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83511	Well, here's what I think is the thinking of everyone here so that it would be to help, not to look for ways only for citizens in a difficult financial economic situation to put more financial burdens on, so that it could be elegant. I know there's a problem there, the doctor's gone around, he won't deal with it if he resents his patient, but it should be the doctor's responsibility. I also appeal to their consciousness and ethical morals of the doctor that they must signal. It's like a weapon when someone has a weapon, and they have some problems the doctor would have to warn. So I think that should be generally acceptable just so new costs don't come out.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83512	Thank you. On behalf of HNS Representatives' Club Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83513	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy, dear ladies and gentlemen, resist. We have before us the fifth novel of this law adopted in 2008 and it is very logical to correct some of the things that have in practice proved to be illogical, harmful and even dangerous. It is an extremely important legal matter that regulates not only as it says in the title of road traffic or road safety, it regulates the safety of human lives because, as we know, roads do not pass vehicles without drivers, without passengers or vehicles carrying only goods, it is about human lives. So we at the HNS Club welcome the practice that, after a certain time, the shortcomings observed in these laws are corrected, so as many times as it takes. For this reason, of course, because of the observed few improvements and the removal of the illogicality we at the HNS club will support this law. I'll comment on what we think is important. First of all, it's extremely important that we use our cell phones. Because all of us drivers testify that today, cyclists, pedestrians, girls on roles who have their cell phones and headphones are far more dangerous traffickers, for themselves primarily than drivers who use a cell phone. This is true and it is actually amazing that this practice of using a cell phone not only behind the wheel but generally in bicycle traffic, on a motorcycle, in walking that it has been present for years, that this situation certainly caused a large number of accidents and surely with fatal outcomes, and that only now, but in any case, it is better that now than never the promoter reacts in this way. The other thing is about the wrong formulation of the presence of medicines in the body of road users, i.e. the driver who has been quite generally defined so far, it led us to the situation that people who had certain drugs in the blood traces who at that time did not significantly influence the driver’s ability had to bear condensities. Thirdly, the way in which safety belts are used and new standards are introduced in line with the standards governing advanced countries, in EU Member States, it is related to the binding and establishment of child safety binding in the back seat. We also welcome the introduction of this new measure because if we avoid only one serious harm to the child's health in Croatia or do not give God and the worse life loss, then the legislator has done his job anyway. counterpart Sanader expressed his skepticism about introducing new standards for the extension of the driver's license beyond 65. I would disagree with my colleague Sanader because we are all deeply aware of the fact that motor skills, vision, the rate of response among people in those years is changing rapidly. And that the intervals of the examinations that were mandatory to drivers in those years are too long. If we also prevent one single traffic stop that would be conditioned by the rapid deterioration of the psychomotor abilities of traffic users due to age appropriate to those years then we at the HNS Club keep this provision right. And of course, it is also important to note changes related to the punishment in car accidents that do not result in any good health damage, i.e. serious or minor injury or potential loss of life than merely material damage. We believe that these things have been corrected in a proper manner. In any case, this latest novel, the proposed new Road Safety Act, i.e. amendments and additions to the HNS Club, will support it because we believe it is a good practice to correct these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83514	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. Maria Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83515	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, it is too late but this is an emergency procedure for harmonising with the EU, so I cannot speak elsewhere but right now when it is actually the final draft of the law. I have actually called to appeal to the Proposer that in some first subsequent amendment to the law of correct discrimination that exists in this law. Namely, our law in Article 2(1) of point 67 defines a young driver as a driver up to 24 years old. On the other hand, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination is, inter alia, prevented, prohibited discrimination by age. This is one aspect of the problem, another thing, I absolutely agree that young drivers, so drivers of younger life, not necessarily and younger life, should have certain limitations and it is doubtless that these younger drivers, in terms of drivers of younger age, are disproportionately involved in traffic accidents with severe and fatal consequences from these other drivers. But not the way he was solved here. We have a system that's designed to go to driver's school, take a driving test, get a driver's license, and now that you're under the age of 24 you have restrictions, if you don't have one. Therefore, the only restriction related to life, and this is not possible under the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. There are other mechanisms by which we need to protect young drivers and drivers with younger driverships and younger lifes from themselves and us all other road users, and then not being discriminatory. It's a question of issuing whether test driving licences, some other instruments, so it can't be the only difference between life and life. That's what I was talking about when we passed the law, and in 2.3 of the changes that were in the meantime, because this is indeed a discriminatory provision. So, in short, I advocate that we introduce test driver licenses for those drivers of a younger age and then give them a certain limit accordingly, because they are really dangerous on the road, one part of them not all, one part of them is dangerous for themselves and other road users. But the way it's set up now, so I don't know how to pass a driver's license, pass a driver's test, get a driver's license, go without a limit, if I have 23. So I simply think that discrimination is not allowed and that other mechanisms should be developed. I'm sorry that this article isn't changed so we can't write amendments. About these other changes, I agree, I support them, and I can't help but comment, my instructor at the car school, we had an excellent instructor who taught us a lot of things, said that one of the most important things we have to carry with us in the car meters for various traffic rules. This law also gives that meter its new application to children. But a little more serious, Mr. Deputy, I think it would be very important to invest something more in preventive actions on car transporting children, child binding and public action related to the safety or reliability of children's seats. There are many things in the market, parents often buy cheaper, of course because they have to, but not realizing that the game is a very important thing and that is the life of their children. So, I'm okay with these provisions, but to just maybe invest a little more in preventive actions and a constant education of people about the needs and attachments of both children and adults in the back, because we've absorbed the front soybeans, I don't think we're the last ones around the safety of the seats themselves. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83516	Thank you. We have a replica. Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83517	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'll do it very briefly. In one piece, I'll just look back, Mrs. Lugaric, that part where you say if you're 30 years old that some rules don't apply to you like those of 18 or 17. I'll just say it for a little while, like maybe a little bit in the jargon, probably one of the 30 years doesn't shoot adrenaline like the 16th, 17th and 18th. However, from experience, here is also the long-standing driver I would like to point out another problem, and I don't know if it can be the deputy minister in his jurisdiction, and these are signs along the road, along roads that are absolutely invisible especially in the spring and summer when they are covered by branches of different trees. Who here, who's in charge of punishing, are those roads, I don't know the local community or anyone else? And besides, the problems are with traffic lights because during the summer period they simply don't have shadow traffic lights and you can't even see what's green, which is yellow and what's red. Here, maybe that law could work it out, but I don't think the Deputy Minister heard it, so then he'll probably stay the way he was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83518	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83519	I mean, we agree more or less, I just want to tell you one thing, it's very personal to generalize. You have those who shoot hormones, all kinds of crazy things in your head regardless of your age, regardless of your age. A responsible man is a responsible man, a responsible person is a responsible person. Some true god grows up a little bit, but just a little bit. So it's very dangerous to really generalize. I think it's much better to work with preventive actions than to go with any repressive variant. And for these roads, signs are responsible for the one whose road, state for the state, county for the county roads and for the unclassified roads is local self-government, for the signs. So whose road is that and the signs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83520	Thank you, too. And one final sentence, Deputy? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83521	Thank you, Vice President. I'd just like to, I'd just like to clarify. This is why we went to 65 years, so far when people were missing God healthy, then the limit was up to 80 years old, but unfortunately our psychophysical condition changes in one day, in one hour, changes in a week and we go only to the end for years. There are too many tragedies here today we had two dead, we barely got them out of the car. People are uncritical, if everyone were responsible for themselves then we would let that limit be up to 100 years, but people are irresponsible. He has a disease, he has some psychophysical disease, he takes some preparations or something and goes in the car, people don't see and go in the car. So we need to protect them from themselves in this way, protect their families from that ominous sound of headphones that someone calls in the middle of the night and says your father, your child is in the hospital and all of us, and that was the intensity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83522	Thank you, Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. Deputy, I thank you both and your associate. Tomorrow we will continue with the final proposal of the Labour Act. Have a nice evening and good football to you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83523	Let's move on, Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 683. The debate on the text of the law is over. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set for the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the 85 votes in favour and 28 abstentions have decided that we should discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like a representative of the reputable Evelin Tonkovic. 28 against apologies, for the record, you may repeat. 85 votes in favour and 28 votes against the decision to discuss and decide the amendments of the government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Deputy Minister Evelyn Tonkovic, please elect an amendment to the government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83524	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and MPs. Article 4 is amended and read, Article 163 is amended and read. In particular, in the debate on the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Safety, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament specifically pointed to the provision of Article 4 of the Final Bill and expressed its view that the provision governing the transport of children is unclear and incomprehensible which will certainly cause problems in the application of the law. The Committee therefore proposed to submit its own amendment to address this issue accordingly, with which the applicant's representative agreed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The road safety law should be aligned with Commission Implementing Directive 2014/37 EU of 27 February 2014 amending Council Directive 91/671/EEC as regards the obligation to use safety belts and child restraint systems in vehicles. In 2014 Council Directive 91/671 EEZ has been amended, and this change applies exclusively to vehicles of category M1, N1, N2 and N3 respectively, and to vehicles for the transport of persons other than the driver’s seat with a maximum of 8 seats and vehicles for the transport of loads and rules for the transport of children in such vehicles have been laid down. In order to address the gaps in the proposed provisions of Article 4 of the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-08-0.u83525	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am giving a statement to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes were 85 votes in favour and 27 votes against the adopted amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final proposal of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 112 votes to pass the P.Z.E. Act. No. In 683, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the adopted amendment. Dear fellow MPs and esteemed fellow MPs, we continue at the plenary session. I see one hand in the air, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
