ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89319	Before I ask whether club representatives will go to the opening, a respected representative, Petar Baranovic, reported. I don't know what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89320	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am looking for a five-minute break on behalf of the Club of the People's Party of Reformists, the Democratic Centre and a new wave due to the situation with the Sibenik TLM and the general open issues related to Croatian privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89321	In accordance with practice, I give a five-minute break to the standard in the Croatian Parliament. We start at 9.40. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:40 A.M.]] I ask the respected representative, Petar Baranovic, on behalf of the club, to state his views on the topic he cited as an emergency.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89323	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the National Party Reformist, DC and the New Wave, I have asked for 500 workers' fates in my town of Sibenik for TLM workers, as well as for all other workers and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We are all witnessing what happens to the once Croatian industry's feather with the Sibenik TLM, which, after the privatisation, records its most difficult moments that may be overtures in the area. In view of that, of course, that in public, and for several years it has been going on, have the dilemmas opened whether in this privatisation process everything that was to be done by the buyer, have the acts of the contract been carried out, and is the whole thing actually in the legal order? Not only do workers but also for customers and those who are today the title of TLM things we must insist on cleaning. Of course, as a legalist and as a man who respects the procedure and as a parliamentary representative in this honorable House, I have laid down on two occasions a written request for the delivery of a copy of the TLM privatisation contract but also some other privatisation procedures and, of course, until today, I have not received these contracts as probably not received by some other representatives in previous mandates that followed the same sequence and logic. That's inadmissible! The circus in this country should come to an end. Croatian citizens whose property has been sold in privatisation procedures have the right to know. Things have to be completely clean and the bills have to be clean. That in these privatisation procedures, things were not brought to an end in many cases of HTP Primošten is an example seen not from airplanes but from Mars. We all know that according to the Treaty hotels in Primosten should have been put into operation. Some of those hotels are in the dress and ivy today. They have bats and seasonal owners, but Croatian workers and people who created these companies, that value and that property are not there. Who is responsible in this country to answer these questions, who is he? I call on the Croatian prime minister and the Croatian government not to give principle answers in two specific cases, HTP Primosten and TLM. I want an answer from the Croatian government as a representative in the Croatian Parliament whether the acts of the contract have been carried out. I've written twice. ... Comrade Dragovan, I never threw away when you were behind this pay phone. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're not playing games like that. I am looking as a Croatian parliamentary representative on behalf of Croatian citizens to answer the question whether the acts of the HTP Primosten contract have been carried out, unless it is possible that the owner is still in possession today. Have the practices of the TLM contract been carried out? If so, what will the Croatian government do to help those owners preserve 500 jobs? And another question to the Croatian government but also to this Parliament will we create a legal regulation that contracts on the sale and alienation of real estate, movables and values from the property of the Croatian state are made available to Croatian citizens, the public, and especially to parliamentary representatives? Privatisation after all we've realized about it cannot be covered by a veil of secrets. This is not about private property, and these things cannot be implemented in the way that they are conducted in private business between partners. This is about the work of national goods and the fates of thousands of workers. For this government and the prime minister of this government, I have raised my hand in the air by giving them my trust as part of the coalition, and today I think it's people who want this country well. In accordance with the man in whom I trust in politics and have not yet spent it, I expect that the clear answers yes or no, not the principled political answers whether they were implemented under the law, whether they were committed and whether today the owners of all these companies in Croatia have the right to be owners or something is under the grain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89324	Thank you, Your Honor. This is a permanent classic problem of the Croatian Parliament because we have introduced in practice that any representative according to his own opinion or club according to his own opinion can be out of the prescribed procedure and raise the problem to the level he considers necessary. So either we agree to continue with this practice or we will have all those who want to discuss it on a written basis say what we will be working on so that we can have the views of the representatives, the democratic representatives of this society and this state. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we continue the plenary session of the 15th session of the Croatian Parliament. Under the agreement at the Croatian Parliament Presidency today we should work in accordance with this agreement. So, unify the discussion points four, five, six, seven and eight. That's four. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 675. – Proposed representative Natalija Martinčević; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 691. – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists – Labour parties; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 705. – Proposers of representatives: Jadranka Kosor, Josip Kregar and Iron Srecko Flego; 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 722. – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP; 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 736. – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the IDS; we agreed to discuss the proposal of these laws, the joint debate of the representatives of the clubs for 20 minutes. In the case of the adoption of these laws, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply. These are the provisions of Articles 183 to 188. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure, the political system of the Croatian Parliament. We also agreed that after this debate within the parliamentary agreement, we would try to find a common denominator from all five proposals that could be supported by all parliamentary deputies. It is of course a wish, the intensity of these agreements, and it will be as the representatives of clubs in the Croatian Parliament can agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89970	President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Another 17.6. in the parliamentary procedure, I have submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on selecting MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The proposal of the National Party of Reformists as representatives in the Croatian Parliament are elected in the same way as representatives are elected to the European Parliament and therefore our proposal is the introduction of a preferential vote at the threshold of 10%. In this way, it would allow our citizens to give their votes along with parties and coalitions to a certain person on the list. In the system that we have today, narrow party leadership determines mostly by subjective criteria, not quality criteria, which will be the executive power. Presidents of the party choose their ministers, their government, of course, and that's fine. In our system, however, these same party presidents also agree on the lists for the Parliament and thus immediately determine who will be the people who will sit in the Assembly. And so we have a position for party presidents or at best the most party leadership in Croatia to choose both executive and legislative power. And it is in such a centralised state as Croatia, where the central government manages over 90% of tax revenues extremely and dangerously and harmfully. However, leaderships that cannot achieve the result of bringing things down to something that cannot be measured, which are most often ideological and demagogue messages, constantly returning to the past, constantly causing division, conflicts in society with the sole goal of avoiding measuring the results of work. The People's Party of Reformists wants to set policy as a measurable discipline and therefore the change of the electoral system in a way that measures the results of the MP's work are certainly a significant shift in that direction. Such an electoral system gives citizens the opportunity to choose a representative who they consider to be the best and best quality representative in the Assembly, and on the other hand, the representatives themselves are given one responsibility to do their job better and better. Now back to 17.6., 17.6. was almost exactly 5 months ago and it took the President of the Parliament so long to put the legislative proposal in the process. If the bill had been put in the process in time, if it hadn't been held up and paved in a drawer for five months, this whole signing story, about the referendum, about the Constitutional Court, there wouldn't have been a call of all kinds. Of course, the issues of electoral legislation should not be addressed in a referendum because it is not a question of the Constitution but a question of amending the law. I understand policy options such as in the Name of families not represented in Parliament, they do not have the possibility but it is clear that for the promotion of ideas or persons of Croatian citizens they should not pay 50 million kuna how much it costs to hold a referendum. Finally, in the final referendum, just to remind me, 24.99% of citizens voted, and that percentage certainly does not represent a festival of democracy. Clearly, greater transparency is achieved through existing elected institutions, i.e. through the parliamentary procedure. Finally, as regards the referendum, the way the referendum in Croatia communicates and as we have seen in the last held inevitably leads to division because, of course, the only and possible answers are yes or no. And to decide in such a way on such complex issues as the issue of changing the electoral system is simply unserious and irresponsible. In this way, citizens are often disappointed, regardless of the referendum issue, of course, with the government's results being declared actually against the government, creating an atmosphere of state of emergency in Croatia that we certainly do not need. Croatia needs a conversation today and a deal to change the situation we are in. This is certainly not going to happen by changing the electoral system and introducing a preferential vote, but also in a country that has not been able to push through a single reform for years will be a serious and major shift forward. So, for the whole story from the beginning, all it took was a debate in the parliamentary procedure that we finally welcomed. So, of course, it would be better if it were all reflected in time. Otherwise, I have to admit, I've been impressed by all this creativity that's come out here, how to cloud the water, how to support things, and actually avoid them. There was really everything, the President of the Parliament won't be angry, but it really impressed me when Mr. Leco came to welcome the GONG meeting which also, as an association, opened that topic, in style, here I support you, you argue, you suggest, you hang out nicely, while at the same time, it was still in the 7th month, while at the same time the parliamentary proposal was referred to in the procedure of the states in.... Afterwards we could hear the thesis that it would not be good to go only with the introduction of a preferential vote, that we should go into a complete and complete change of the electoral system, which, of course, is fine, but do it when we know that we are with deadlines, therefore, but at the end because we have only a few months until the deadline for changing the electoral system, it's kind of like style, let's set the scale high enough to make sure we don't skip it. But when this story with a referendum and a general opinion, not to say pressuring the public, came to the throat, there was the ruling party who typed up its proposal and was now moving hard into reforming the electoral system. Some of these electoral changes are related to things that have already been decided, which are, in fact, reached by consensus, but typically as I have already said, we have water blackouts back in the SDP proposal, which refers to the release of the list bearer. So this kind of amendment to the Electoral Law, which was actually supposed to be positive, is also used for electoral engineering because, of course, list holders and preferential voting are not in any way affected. Under the heading of change, it is trying to eliminate the possibility that, with the force of the political message represented by the party itself, the message will be further strengthened by the personal authority of strong political leaders at national level. I understand that this is strongly supported by certain SDP coalition partners who have no more of their strong political leaders, but it is obvious that the ruling party itself has estimated that their leader will be on election lists more than minus plus. And we understand all of that, of course, but if there is, therefore, such an assessment of the ruling party, so the existing law should not be amended because, of course, no one prevents any party from pointing out to the holders any person from its party and it does not necessarily have to be party president. These amendments to the law in this way, as far as the list bearer is concerned, in fact, want to do harm to those political options that their strong leaders have. And my last remark applies to the women's quota. The message that 40% of women should be on the lists is certainly a good message, but it is clear from this bill that they want to stay only on the message because that they want to make a real move then the provision of the law would require that 40% of women should be in the first half of the list. This is how we know that women, with women's names, will be properly filled with the last seats on the lists for the Parliament and that in most parts of the Parliament, men will enter again as they have so far. Finally, as for the proposal, of course, and the Reformist Party, the preferential vote is the vote that most EU countries have. Preferentially, the way we have proposed elections for the European Parliament and, in fact, the third and most important, the introduction of a preferential vote has already been recognised by our citizens. In the last elections for the European Parliament, 78.5% of our citizens gave a preferential vote and in fact it is the strongest legitimacy that this very legislative proposal has and I call on all parliamentary representatives to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89971	Thank you, too, Your Honor. But before we go to replicas, I owe it to the Croatian public to tell the truth. I believe that a respected representative knows the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because he has been here for a long time, so she should know that the President of the Parliament has put the second day of the procedure or procedure of the law she has proposed. All agendas are determined by the Croatian Parliament and this agenda, which we are now discussing, was also established by the Croatian Parliament, not by the President of the Croatian Parliament. And for such grades, they can only think that for reasons of frustration or bad intentions. Now we're going to the replicas. Honorable representative Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89972	President-in-Office, a vote of preference in all of these five proposals means a direct election of MPs, for example. The elected mayors, mayors, the president of the state, as elected representatives in the Croatian Parliament in '92, '95, however, is simply not so. We're changing something that we're doing to keep everything the same. However, the only fundamental change would be the change of all changes if Croatia, such as Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium, Australia, Finland, made a commitment that all Croatian citizens, all who have the right to vote, would have to go to elections. You don't go to the elections you'll pay a fine or a 100 kuna penalty or go to the elections you'll get 100 kuna, until it's in place, you know what we'll have, we'll have the election of party nomenclatures, not citizens' elections. On the 30% turnout that happens regularly, you get party machinery that does the job. At 45% of the turnout of the party machinery, they fight for power, and 60% of the election is won by citizens. So first to oblige citizens to go to elections, I mention the most prospective countries in the world half the MPs in this House to choose directly in the constituency among 40, 50 thousand voters and finally ensure media availability to everyone. Here, for example. The city of Pula is paying attention to 7 PR agencies, Manjguru of Macan now works with President Josipovic, Kwantan of Mrs Zenzerović, Alferu, Avenue, Istria media, Media project, Presscut etc. With millions of kunas, and about the media of the others, televisions not to talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89973	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89974	These are three principles that guarantee Croatia's change and stability.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89975	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Natalija Martiničević.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89976	This system of voting, as proposed by the People's Party, has 15 countries in the EU and, as I said, it is the same way that MPs are elected to the European Parliament. I have made it clear that this will not be a change that will change our political system and politics in Croatia, but it will be a serious step forward. In order to motivate our citizens to go to elections, of course politics must become credible and what we are currently standing for must become measurable. This is certainly one step in this direction because the work of parliamentary representatives will at least begin to measure from now on because so far we have had a situation to absolutely decide on everything only by party presidents or possibly the most important party leadership. In this way, however, citizens are given the opportunity to choose the representative they consider to be the best and best-quality representative in the Parliament or any representative who has already done such a job and has thus been recognised as such. As far as the law is concerned, I understand that all the laws of the opposition parliamentary deputies are kept in the drawer for a long time, so I should be happy that this came after only five months in the procedure, so here I thank the President of the Parliament for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89977	I will have to repeat, everything I have said is decided by the Croatian Parliament, and neither by the President of the Parliament nor by any representative, but by the Croatian Assembly of Honored Members. New replica, the esteemed vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89978	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Martinecevic, I fully agree with you when you said that Croatia needs a conversation and a deal. And I'm hoping it'll happen on this issue. However, I do not agree that we should not go into full change including solving and constitutional problems because this can be achieved and if there is a good will we could achieve a complete change in the way MPs are elected to the Croatian Parliament because it is only a quality and good solution. Unfortunately, that's where one whole series of delusions are created. Here's state television, I'm deliberately saying state-owned because it's government television, unfortunately, is not public television, yesterday on the main news show, a completely incorrectly misleading people say that HDZ is asking for everything to stay for the next election as it was, everyone else wants to change, and HDZ doesn't want it to be true, I repeat it again. On the contrary, HDZ advocates not only a radical change in the way of choice but also a change in the Constitution that would bring greater justice in the vote especially for citizens who have a residence outside the Republic of Croatia and HDZ is for a preferential vote by not knowing a thousand times that should be repeated by some because they are constantly claiming the opposite. However, the whole series of things is not unfortunately any of these proposals are being arranged. If we are regulating a women's quota which is positive and good, it is interesting that she does not want to settle, for example, the question of determining the deputy representative elected on the basis of preferential votes. 'Cause if that doesn't work out, it's all gonna stay the same again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89979	Thank you, too. Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89980	I fully agree with you that we should go to full changes, however it is a little late that two months before the deadline that we can go to any changes, we go to the full changes in the electoral system. Of course that's what comes and can happen if there's political will and there's political consensus, but we see what these things look like so far. We're on the issue of amending the Constitution I don't think we've met or spoken or negotiated or negotiated for the last 10 months. Any reform, even the smallest and the easiest in this country, cannot be implemented, so with anything that moves this ruling coalition has no power to push anything to the end. So expect that two months before the deadline, we will be able to change the entire electoral system is simply unrealistic. But in any case, I support her, and if she's gonna be there for that, I'll be the first to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89981	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Josip Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89982	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Martincevic, I agree with your debate and with the suggestions you have made to the Parliament. First, and honestly, if we're going to be honest today, we really want to talk about the system that we want to change and we're all children of this system. We are in a few spins in a few election cycles chosen in a way that the state system at first rests on such a cycle of electoral laws. We must all thank Željko Markic, the Association on behalf of the family, their initiative, because if it were not for these 380 thousand signatures, the Croatian Parliament would not be discussing the need for a quick introduction of a preferential vote for several reasons today. This vote was not our invention, the European Commission's recommendations in Croatia's accession process to the European Union were clear that this is the way of the preferential election of MPs on the lists for elections for representatives from the Republic of Croatia to the European Parliament. Now, if any of us are going to keep the fig tree in our pocket there are various political games that have been present for years with the use of the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure, with various legal instruments. So if we are really going to change the electoral voting system then we must also change the political thinking system. It is true that the opposition bill can come to the agenda in accordance with the procedure but it is also true when something is voted to wait a year, two days to sometimes discuss it or never discuss it. Then today let's be honest without that punch in the belt, let's really try to achieve the will of our people, which is to change the electoral law the way the Croatian public asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89983	Replica response, respected representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89984	Dear fellow Salapic, I am pleased that you recognized exactly what I was talking about, which is that there was really no initiative in the name of the family that started with the collection of signatures, which has completely unnecessaryly and without reason faced us again with the possibility of holding another referendum and this is a question that cannot be decided at all in the referendum. Because you can't decide on a referendum on such a complex and complex issue of change in the electoral system. And if we hadn't gotten into this situation, so if it hadn't happened to us, we wouldn't be discussing this here today. So here we are, however, in an opportunity to discuss, and I believe that there will be political will and wisdom to present today, to discuss and finally to agree on the best possible proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89985	Thank you. New Replicated Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89986	Dear fellow Martincevic, I must begin with a kind of replica and President of the Parliament and you, I am not frustrated and I have no evil intention. But the fact is even before my colleague Salapic said that there was no Mrs. Zeljke Markic with whom I was so ideologically different that I could talk about light years we would not be discussing today. That would be 70th and some on the agenda. And that's a fact, and we all know that, and so does the President of the Parliament. That this is about the Parliament deciding which points are decided by the majority and not by the Parliament, by the majority. So don't talk about it, and the will of the majority is imposed in the cabinet and we've learned that. Therefore, there is little parliamentaryism. First of all, I agree with the initiative of women who were outside and who shared flyers to be applied with a preferential vote to apply the women's quota and to apply it in 40% not so unclearly in the laws, so we do not know which choice a woman's quota of 40% should be applied and that alternating women and men on the lists starting from the first regular number. Because otherwise, the first five, six seats will be taken by men and then by women. I therefore support your initiative and once again thank those who forced the Parliament to act as it did.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89987	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89988	Yes, here I see that indeed the vast majority of parliamentary deputies recognize what I was talking about and there is no need for some to get angry at it, these are simple facts and they are like that and everyone here in the Parliament but as the whole of the Croatian public it is quite clear. I'm only going to answer this on women's quotas, and we're constantly finding some kind of solution to make it look like we're giving some kind of message, that we want to do something here, but obviously without a real, honest desire to move that thing. So the reintroduction of this model that 40% but not by defining the place on the lists will lead us to a situation as I have already said in the debate that women will properly fill the last places on the lists and we will again have a ratio in the Parliament of 80% of men and 20% of women. This should be changed if we really want to do something, something to apply, let's decide, here is a concrete proposal, let's decide that 40% of women must be in the first half of the list, in this way we will really contribute to women being better represented in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89989	Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89990	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, the statement of citizens in the referendum cannot be as unserious and irresponsible as you have said and on the issue of electoral legislation, especially because it is evident that there is neither political will nor political power in Croatia to redesign the electoral legislation, change and make a single turn in the management of the state at all. We all know that the situation as it is now is not good, that that's definitely why you started the initiative to change it, but without public pressure, without citizens, it definitely wouldn't come to that. And today, when we look at the referendum initiatives, I feel like it's a quiet revolution of citizens, a cultural revolution of citizens who rebel and oppose bad political decisions. This initiative, which you all say is being launched, or if the debate had been launched before this amendment to the law would not have been an initiative. Probably not, or maybe he would. I shall say, the HSS has actively participated in this and I am glad that we were the first party to make a decision at the party presidency and the main committee to support this and to give full infrastructure to collect signatures. I'm sorry that we weren't all in this, maybe in the end we shouldn't even be conducting a referendum, maybe eventually we'd have one serious situation how to redesign this whole thing together, so in the end, not just a preferential vote, you won't change it. Why don't we cut the number of MPs? Why don't we reduce this to 100 people in this crisis? Why do we need what we have now? It's not good, it needs to be changed. In any case, unserious and irresponsible cannot possibly be a public statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89991	Replica response, respected representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89992	Of course, the referendums on certain issues should be supported. It's an important institution of democracy. However, we have come into a situation that we are actually in the referendums on this country's policy and that we are dealing with things that should be dealt with by this government. In this case, the government also received all the power to lead the country, make decisions and implement reforms. After three years, we saw that this government cannot make decisions, that it does not implement reforms and that citizens are not satisfied and of course citizens want to express their dissatisfaction and express it through the referendum. However, the referendums concern, in particular, the issue of an electoral system that is a complex issue, that I am not talking about the monetization of highways, thus not being run by the state. The state of such a political decision cannot be made in referendums, so we have a government that should take responsibility for this last year's term of office as much as there is still some reforms left and some decisions made.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89993	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the House, dear colleague Nenad Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89994	Thank you. My colleague, I thought that you would use this time when you are behind a pay phone to present your proposal, and not that, but almost in an offensive way, you are counting on the suggestions of other promoters and yet quite wrongly interpreting the motives of the promoter for individual solutions. You're attacking the SDP, I don't know why, misreading the motive for removing the bearer of the list. We suggest that the list bearer be abolished in order to make the whole process more transparent and fairer. You certainly remember the time of the first HDZ administration when the holder of all the lists in the local elections was the first Croatian president and president of the HDZ, Franjo Tudjman, and he had no intention of being a member of the municipal assembly or city council anywhere. So that's a motive why we're abolishing, not this motive that you're making up, in a completely offensive way. You attack an existing system of arrival on the list as the subjective will of the party president. So how did you come to the Parliament but subjectively by the will of your party president who put you on the list? If he hadn't put you on the list, you wouldn't have been in the Parliament. But be so honest and admit it. The preferential voice that we're trying to advocate, it won't stop it, it must be clear to you because you're misreading it as well. Because the president of the party precisely because of the introduction of a preferential vote, but he draws up a list, he can put all the anonymouss up and then the citizens will vote for by name and last name when they don't know anyone but him there. But it can also be one of the consequences. So when we talk about a preferential voice, we need to know what we're talking about. A preferential voice is a good idea, a good idea, but provided that party presidents use it to increase their power rather than pass on that power to the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89995	Thank you very much. Replica Response, Honored Representative Natalija Martinčević
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89996	Yes, very interesting. When we talk about list holders, you've now remembered the former Croatian president, but you didn't remember that in the last election, the Kukuriku coalition of 10 constituency units in 9 constituencies held the list as your party president. It just seems to me that at the time his popularity seemed to be something greater than it is now. I'm sorry if you and the SDP saw this as an attack on your proposals. Of course not, I have just expressed my opinion, or the opinion of the People's Party-reformist on certain issues. I think it's my right and my duty and my duty and that's why we're here in the House so we can discuss all the proposals and make the suggestions manifest. You have yours, we have ours, and I think that's the whole idea of parliamentary democracy. As for how anyone entered the Assembly, I am a distinguished representative of Stazic who entered as well as you, so in the same way we entered but now here we have a preferential vote, so we will have opportunities for you and I to see how many people will support our stay in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89997	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Damir Tomic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89998	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, I wanted to tell you something similar about what Mr. Stazic said in the first part. I must admit that I am a little disappointed with your position on the list bearer because on the one hand you are against the autonomy of the president in the assembly, and on the other hand you are struggling very hard for the authority of the leader and you, by the authority of the leader, want to choose a representative. Well, that's really incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u89999	Replica response, respected representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90000	Yeah, that's right. If you have a high-quality, strong political leader who has the authority to strengthen the message of the party, it is, of course, perfectly legitimate, and as I said while you had such a leader, you have quite applied it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90001	Thank you very much. Let's hear all the representatives of the motion, and then we'll see if the representatives of the working bodies come forward about the united positions. Now it is up to the promoter on behalf of the Croatian Labourist-Stranke club the respected representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90002	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The electoral model for Parliament's election in each country is important for the development of democracy and parliamentaryism as a whole. Different models bring greater or less stability both to the political system and to Parliament itself. More or less citizens' trust in this institution and the greater or smaller reputation that Parliament enjoys among citizens. And of course it can influence and bring greater or smaller potential conflict of interest, but also greater or smaller corruption. And for this reason, by discussing and offering one of the possible changes to the electoral model, I would also like to say that the model Croatia has since 1999 is neither the worst nor the best Europe has. But at this point in time because of the mood of the public and the message that the public has given twice in the European elections, it is seeking to do so. Each country is looking for its model, its electoral model that often rests on certain traditions, customs, practices, validity, good or less good experiences. And it turned out that copying a copy paste model was never good at not only the electoral model but also in editing the political system as a whole. We must admit that we have two problems in Croatia today. The first problem is the electoral abstinence when the elections are at stake, and contrary to it a large number of referendum initiatives. I am surprised by the fear of referendum initiatives that arises and the surprise of some who now declare these referendum initiatives dangerous regardless of the topic of the initiative. I am surprised by those who are trying to resolve electoral abstinence with discussions on the electoral model, forgetting that the introduction of mandatory voting involves constitutional changes. The Republic of Croatia has given the citizens the right to vote, but not the obligation. I therefore call on all those who consider Croatia to be mature for the introduction of a mandatory vote of accession to the elections and referenda to prepare proposals for constitutional changes. It's responsible behavior then. And our other problem is the existing model of choice the unequal value of the voter vote. The Croatian Parliament also warned the Constitutional Court. Discussing possible proposals to go before the Croatian Parliament, we were engaged in the possibility of a general change in the electoral system or only technical updates or interventions that could be called regular maintenance in technical terms. The 2011 election data show that the first violation of the principle of fair political representation was because the current electoral model led to a list that won 40.7% of the votes winning 57% of the mandate. That the second list of 23.9% won 33% of the seats. That disproportionate, so it's 17%. In a large number of EU members who have observed this disproportionateity, it is tolerated if it is between 4 and 7%. Indeed, in the debates that the Croatian Assembly will certainly be engaged in in election models, this fact should be remembered. Secondly, the number of fallen or failed votes in the 2011 elections amounted to about 600,000, which practically says that around 20 and up to 25% of the voters did not result in their decision. It's the result of the model we have. The reasons are that we are applying Dont's method, Dont's account, which in Croatia we have a large number of participants in the parliamentary elections. The third reason is the excessive deviation of the number of voters from the constituency to the constituency and then the unsettled voter lists. By amending or adopting the law on voter registration as a permanent document or list of voters, this disorder problem has been somewhat resolved and it has been a good job done. However, the problem remained with existing election units, which is therefore not the Law on Election Units, but the Electoral Law describes or gives the criteria that the derogation should not be greater than plus minus 5 per cent and that, as far as possible, the electoral units are tailored so that they respect the limits of the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia maximum. The 2011 experiences therefore tell us that a fair election game is at stake and that the equality of the vote is at stake because the number of votes required for one term was as much as 15% of the votes required. Of course, the question was then raised whether there is a possibility that election units meet the criteria of the Election Law and that the Croatian Parliament should finally put the opinion of the Constitutional Court on the agenda and make the necessary changes in the Law on Election Units, but our proposal also contains provisions that allow such a change because the existing provisions actually concreteise the possibility of any change. Another dilemma emerged, time, does the Parliament have enough time to make changes to the electoral model? And based on the opinion of most constitutional and legal experts by mid-February next year, the Assembly can intervene in changes to the electoral model without violating the provisions that Croatia has at the moment. A preferential vote, in the European elections in May, that right to decide not only on the list but also on the selection of one candidate took advantage of 78.5% of voters. So the smallest number or list with a minimum number of preferential votes had 41.9% and a list with a maximum number of preferential votes of up to 86.5%. However, of the 34 candidates on the 25-list who met the legal condition of winning more than 10% of the votes cast by their list, despite not crossing the 5% threshold, so 34 of them were the only 10 candidates who were not first on the list. So 24 plus 10% are actually the ones that were first on the list, and only 10% are the ones that weren't first on the list. This shows the lack of a single preferential voice model. And that is why we believe that the introduction of one preferential vote and for the Croatian Parliament is not a serious change but a cosmetic intervention. With such behaviour, voters gave the Croatian Parliament a strong political message that they want to participate in both the candidate decisions and that they are against closed, blocked lists. It's a political message to the electoral body. So, considering the possibility of what kind of proposal to give, one, two, three or more of the preferential votes, we decided on three, the right of voters to have up to three preferential votes and did not offer or predict a clause of respect for that vote with neither three nor five, let alone ten percent of the vote in relation to the number won by his list. We believe that the 5% electoral threshold that the list must win in order to enter into the mandate is strong enough prohibition and that additional prohibition should not be introduced. This later proved that in 22 EU members, 15 of them who have a preferential vote, the number of preferential votes ranged from 1 to 4, and the recognition model for these votes differed. There's even one country where the first ones on the list and its preferred votes don't count. It is probably exactly their experience, as is our Croatian, to win a preferential vote first on the list. When introducing a preferential vote on the ballot, all candidates on the list must necessarily be listed and for this technical reason, the holder of the list cannot or can not exist. Therefore, in the preferential voting model, the holder of the list cannot technically exist. And that's why he must be left out of election law. We have foreseen and offered to introduce the incompatibility of the duties of representatives and executive authorities in local self-government units. The existing law already provides for the incompatibility of the responsibilities of mayors and deputies in the Parliament, we believe that this should also be extended to mayors and mayors of municipalities especially after their direct election is introduced. We also foresee the possibility, i.e. the right to run candidates in election units only according to the place of residence as well as the appointment of deputy representatives only according to the number of preferential votes won, and not according to the order on the list. So for 140 MPs who are elected to the Republic of Croatia, three preferential votes. Our proposal does not foresee any change in the way of electing representatives of national minorities, and in the case of a special electoral unit of voters who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, we have foreseen one preferential vote because it is intended to elect 3 MPs and that the list of candidates in that constituency may be between 6 and 14. So there are valid lists not as in these 10 electoral units 14 but a party or group of voters can offer a list of candidates from 6 to 14. These are not large in both political and structural terms, the major change in the electoral model. But they are on the trail of what we have assessed or at least hoped that at this point in the Croatian Parliament, an agreement and changes could be reached that would not undermine the important existing legislation. Whether there is a political will for such an agreement will be seen after the debate has been held and I would like to point out that this agreement that we reached at Parliament's presidency that after the first reading of five proposings and other clubs of MPs try to agree on one model proposal that would come to a second reading is a good step if the participants of the agreement will not ultimatically represent proposals that are purely cosmetic. Of course it was debated and thought and to be honest long before the citizens' initiative published its referendum issue and the models of the possibility of banning pre-election coalitions. We are not for bans, but in the future it will be necessary to consider whether the 5% electoral threshold for all or what Croatia had in its own time when the electoral list of one political party or group of voters is the 3% electoral threshold, two coalitions or two 5% coalitions, and three or more 8%. Then the election game would be far more just. There were also proposals to reduce the number of MPs. A serious debate is also possible, but then we need to answer the question in parallel and promote this debate and an existing solution to which 11 parliamentary seats are reserved in advance, so 3 diaspora and 8 national minorities and determine the proportionality of the total number of MPs. Croatia currently has 2% of represented diaspora and 5.7% of national minorities. By reducing the number of MPs elected in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to open the debate and to do so. Banning citizens from running for war crimes, crimes against humanity, abuse of position, authority, economic crime, war profit. We did not include this in our proposal, another proposal from the group of representatives of colleagues Kosor, Kregara and Flege has this and it is acceptable for us, but it opens up another problem that we have in Croatia and we do not solve. Namely, this problem of a ban on running can also be solved by a ban, by provisions on the ban on the conduct of duty, but we are eligible for a ban on running. In the provisions concerning the ban on the conduct of office, Croatian legislation addresses the problem of powerless verdicts on unconditional prison sentences for more than 6 months and for the Parliament and for the government, for other states officials, local and regional. I think he's been with local and regional officials for over a month not six months. But there is a high probability that today Croatia will enter into a precedent problem, a new problem. Namely, we have not resolved the legislative issue of the rights of officials during the investigation or escape to the Croatian judiciary. And based on the Constitutional Court's decision a few months ago, and I repeat that today or these days, that may happen, the courts will be able to present, to sanction the suspension of officials, to prohibit the performance of their duties. And now it is interesting for state officials and deputies and all other citizens of Croatia in this case we have a legislative solution, but for no state official or parliamentary representatives, local and regional officials there is no solution in the law on their status. And for this reason, this debate must be offered either by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or by representatives' clubs to find a solution as soon as possible and to question whether that provision of the current term of office, by the law, should be reviewed without any further delay for a period of 6 months, and should be shortened as it was done for local and regional officials. That's the essence of our proposal. In addition to this bill, and this will be a debate after this point, we have offered a new map, a new law in election units that we consider worthy of your attention and debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90003	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica and respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90004	Thank you. I will refer to only one thing from your presentation, which is the question of the maturity of Croatian society or Croatian citizens for the mandatory vote. It was in the initial part of the debate. I don't think it's a question of whether Croatian citizens or Croatian society are mature for a mandatory vote. Finally, the question is whether Croatian citizens were mature and for a 25% VAT, so they have it. So, the law imposes, and if we do so, it will be so and Croatian citizens will then go to these elections. I think the second problem with this issue is the mandatory vote, it is the first that it should definitely go so as to allow both a letter and an electronic vote. So, before that, we cannot discuss at all the issue of mandatory voting for all citizens, so that all forms of voting are made possible for citizens, not just the current model of going to the polls, that's one thing. And secondly, of course, it is a question of how many Croatian citizens should go to these elections in the first place. And that's the question of the voter's census, and then we go back to the problem that in 2011, we paid 117 million kuna for several thousand surveyors to visit every house in the Republic, each of its inhabitants to write down what they call it, how old they are, how old they are, where they live, practically how many kilos they have, and we found that we have 4.3 million residents. We've determined that we have exactly less than 3 million adults, and then it happens to us on the electoral lists of these same people, we don't know if there are 3.8 million, whether there are 4.3 million or 10 million. Although we know exactly that we have 3.5 million, slightly less than 3.5 million adult residents. That we... claimed his name, where he lives, and who these people are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90005	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90006	My colleague Đurović, if I remember my debate well, did not question the maturity of Croatian citizens, but ours, in this hall. In terms of the introduction of a mandatory vote, and I said that I felt that constitutional changes were necessary. That's a big difference, if that's okay with you. However, if we go to the debate on the subject mandatory or voluntary voting and debate we start, I think or we think, what are we actually doing? Is there an answer to that dilemma to the question of what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia want, the voters? Do they want electoral rights as they now have under the Constitution or do they want electoral obligations? When we get an answer that the citizens want, then our decision, whatever it is, will suit the wishes of the citizens and will be consistent with their will and interest, not against that will and interest. So I'm pretty skeptical about that bidding until we hear what the citizens want. And to give them a chance to make a point, then a proposal needs to be set up, and I think it's a proposal to change the Constitution. I wouldn't accept or take the right to say it with my own opinion and on the basis of my thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90007	Thank you very much. Second replica, Honorable Representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90008	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lesar, you haven't made it clear from your debate until the end, you said you were against the meeting of the mayors and mayors. It is clear to me that since the mayors are acting in addition to the role of local administration, they are also acting in part of the state administration, and this is also a ban on their activities here in the Parliament. However, when we talk about local officials, commissioners and mayors, then surely you didn't say that, and I read somewhere that in earlier statements you were saying, surely these are very responsible functions and it's hard for one man to behave such two important functions. However, have you considered that if you are banned, and many of the commissioners, I know it reliably, many leaders in the Republic of Croatia are acting voluntarily, so they receive compensation, and those Commissioners who are in the Assembly, you are no longer receiving from their municipality any compensation, have you considered that such a provision would actually, if I were to say so, lead to salonisation or metropolis of politics? In the 2011 elections of 140 MPs, 43 MPs were elected to have their residence in the Zagreb area. So, may this danger seem to you to be a possibility in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90009	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90010	Dear fellow Members, yes, we are very insistent on the proposal for the incompatibility of the duties of parliamentary representative, municipal chiefs and mayors. By making three mistakes in your replica. First, the mayors do not have the authority, do not carry out any tasks of the state administration, it was abolished in 2003 and their ban on conduct at the same time and the duties of the parliamentary representative was introduced until then when they had status and regional, or state official. But that was abolished in 2003. Secondly, you said they were doing some of the work of local administration and state administration. There is no local administration, there is state administration, local and regional self-government. There is no local administration in Croatia. And therefore, the mayors do not have any legislative ingenuity in terms of state administration. The failure to comply with the law in 2003 after the abolition of their status as a state official has been the subject of debate in this Chamber 10 times so far. And secondly, as far as metropolising is concerned, that a respected colleague, 45 MPs, has a residence in the city of Zagreb. This problem was solved by the Law on Election Units where Zagreb would be one electoral unit with 26 MPs. You see how easy that is to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90011	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the House, Nenad Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90012	Dear colleague, I would like to compromise with the proposal set out in Article 6 of your proposal, which is the introduction of an obligation for the candidate to have a place of residence in the constituency in which he is running. The question is whether it's even a constitutional solution. In fact, we have a one-time parliament and every MP... in this House represents all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not just those of the citizens of that constituency in which he was elected. This could be so in a county home, but in the lower home in this House, a one-home parliament cannot just be. So in this House, you don't represent the voters or the citizens of the 3rd constituency in which you're elected, but you represent all citizens, and that's a good thing to represent them all. But that's why your solution here is illogical, and the question is whether it's constitutional.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90013	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90014	A fellow Stazic, all happiness in Croatia exists and a body that answers the question of the constitutionality of any legislative solution and has no fear, we should not be concerned. But I am sure that the issue of candidateing by election units or the right to run only by election units would pass the constitutionality test is the law predicting the election of MPs by election units. You're right only in the part where you talk about representing all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You would be right only if Croatia were one electoral unit, but in the model of election units and the right of voters to elect election representatives in the electoral units is not incompatible to me with constitutional law and candidate and voters to limit the right to run to the place of residence by law. Only now if there are no other reasons that would suit you to place the candidates of parliamentary representatives from Međimurje on the election list in Bjelovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90015	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90016	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Lesar, it's an extensive matter and I'm stuck with it, I wouldn't get into the widest but it certainly stuck to my ear when you mentioned the ban on running for chief, it's one of these interesting topics to me, but not because it doesn't turn out now you see this one now found himself for himself, not to tell the story not for the sake of the village but for himself. Maybe it's not as interesting to you as I know it is that you have two officers on the ground, that you have more of them you might think differently, but let's let that part go statistically now. Let's say some of the clearest and easiest to hit on these local leaders, the chiefs. A short time ago there was a speech here and now he's going hunting those sheriffs, that was the first. Now the second change in income tax says now we will reduce your income, and you provide kindergartens, schools, all etc. Now let's go to them and ban them in some way that they can't be. And I am responsibly saying that here the chiefs present in this House are very much contributing to the quality of the debate here, but also that they have improved the quality of life in their environments from which they come in every way possible. And from that base, I'm holding that somehow it's not good to put those commissioners in somehow, and now we're going to nail them again. So that's why I'm putting all of us to think that and with those commissioners who, like they said, are mostly volunteers in a larger way, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90017	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90018	My colleague Milinkovic is a small correction, we do not foresee a ban on running. The mayors, mayors and mayors can run for office, but after the election, they decide if the mayors of the municipalities or parliamentary representatives remain. So there's a big difference between a ban on running or a ban on acting at the same time as two functions. And secondly, not to spread and not to waste time kindly ask you to do only one thing, ask your government members of the past two mandates when you were in power how much the coalition of mayors who were also parliamentary deputies cost to ensure most of the vote where it was due to ensure, how many millions, not tens of millions, how many hundreds of millions cost their loyalty to coalition partners. So when you do that, then you'll understand why we're suggesting it. If someone doesn't understand what I'm talking about, some of these are still subject to not only an investigation today, but also a criminal charge that they've committed on those functions. I don't mean HDZ members this time, to be clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90019	Okay. Let's present the third draft law of the proposing group of MPs. On behalf of the group of MPs, a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90020	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here's to the beginning, since this bill of law has been signed by the three MPs of Flego, my colleague Craig and I, the Craigsman of Craigs, he's gone, and today he's traveling, and Mr. Flego and I are going to talk about this proposal. But I must point out that this proposal, in the broadest sense, supported 30 MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, almost all the clubs and almost all the parties presented in the Croatian Parliament, and I believe that the very ones who participated at the very beginning of the draft amendments to the law will come forward and will support the proposal that is before you which is actually a minimalist framework, so minimalist and in the sense that we have reduced it from the initial debate to what we thought is possible and that it is realistic at this moment to achieve what is possible and realistic to get the support of most MPs in the Croatian Parliament. This proposal I speak minimally because of the deadlines, so it is already said that we have time and that the deadline is mid-February, therefore there is also time for further discussion until the second reading and for agreeing on a single bill, amendments to the law, and this would be a major step forward in democratisation of society but certainly also what we call strengthening parliamentaryism and strengthening the role of the Croatian Parliament. This proposal comes out of experience from past euro elections and from the first and second cycles as well as from the set, reality of Croatian politics, that is, Croatian political life. The basis for making these proposals and amending the laws is the 2011 parliamentary elections and the fact that 18.5% of the vote has failed in these elections. Sixty-six thousand three hundred and fifty-six votes went down, so I could put it in a well like that. So 606 thousand 356 voters who voted in the elections did not actually participate in the Croatian Parliament. And therefore, I should say that these amendments should certainly be much broader and much more comprehensive, but because of the times ahead and the fact that we need to wrap up the debate on the final bill we are going with these relatively short and small changes. What we want to achieve with this proposal to amend the electoral law is to pick up those failed votes, so on this, because 18.5% of the votes that have failed is an enormous number of failed votes, to boost greater turnout. We believe that the fact that, later on, the introduction of a preferential vote may encourage one part of the voters to decide because they can identify a candidate they consider to be theirs and represent their views, their worldview. And that it may be a representative or representative who will really do his job in accordance with the Constitution. So reduce abstinence but also open stronger democratic processes in parties. After the elections, of course, the opening of these new winds, I often like to call it a blowout in political parties will and could open up the fact that the heads of all parties would have to go to the lists and the preferential vote could happen because some of them are extremely unpopular in the Croatian public and some other candidates on those lists might get an enormous number of votes from leaders and those leaders who are holding back democratic processes in their parties. So what do we suggest? Removal of the list holder as well. I will now not comment on other amendments to the law because I think it is more correct to talk about my proposal and then later discuss others. The removal of the bearer of the list, therefore, is an insignificant role, and I think it has run her over in every way. The introduction of a preferential vote at the 5% electoral threshold, so at the 5% electoral threshold, it is certainly three preferential votes that could be defined by the voter on a particular list as so-called. theirs, theirs, theirs, theirs, and theirs. All research has shown that around 80, almost 80% of voters, I am talking about the latest Euro elections as well as the surveys that were conducted aimed at amending electoral legislation, so about 80% of voters are asking for a preferential vote. And we think that one preferential vote is little to allow three preferential votes to open those doors in the next step and one more comprehensive, electoral, or change of electoral legislation. For the validity of the list, 1500 votes should be raised, so for each, this applies to party but also to voters' lists. So far, they have had to raise 500 votes, I think that all relevant parties can collect 1,500 votes without any problems, and that would make it impossible for those who have witnessed in all election cycles the fact that the parties that exist are really only on paper and that arise from the election to the suffocation election and that media space around the confrontation but, of course, complicate the whole system. We also propose the incompatibility of the duties of MPs with that mayor and commissioner, so we are harmonising with the inability to run or put on the mayor's lists. This is above all, our motive is different, our motive is because of the fact that we feel that we would then get representatives who would do their job seven days a week because the office of mayor and mayor who I personally respect is looking for the mayor and chief of staff for 7 days a week in their workplace. The role and duties of mayors and commissioners are neither easy nor simple, but neither is the role of MPs or MPs in the Croatian Parliament so that it can allow for the absence of MPs from any session, any topic, because in the end we may also get what citizens ask of us, which is to be here, to work, to discuss, to come and to earn our salary. And our proposal also includes a ban on running for persons convicted of specific criminal offences, primarily a ban on those who are sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for 6 months at a time that is running the deadline, so the sentence is executed or is to be executed at the time when the election procedure is initiated. However, we also provide for the ban on running for persons convicted of specific crimes, until they are subject to the deadlines of rehabilitation under special law and for crimes against humanity, human dignity, genocide, crimes of aggression, crimes against humanity, war crimes, terrorism, terrorist associations, torture, slavery, serious murder and abuse of positions and powers. So this is the part of our changes and changes, that part of our proposal based on Croatian reality, Croatian political pre-life. I don't think that should be elaborated in any way. If it's necessary, we'll discuss it later. Here before my colleague Flego takes over, I would just say that I hope that this proposal will take an equal place in the debates and agreements until the second reading, that those who ultimately decide, and that is certainly the ruling majority, will take into account the best of each proposal, that we will reach a consensus on this, that there will be no message taken or left, that we will reach an agreement and I hope and I will personally argue that we will reach an agreement on the final draft of the amendments to the Election Law. And finally, quite personally, I also find it commendable to be the initiative of the Association "In the Name of the Family", although I personally did not support their initiative earlier on amending the Constitution in order to install the definition of marriage as a community of men and women in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so I was against it, but I also supported this initiative by signing because I think it was a quality proposal. And certainly if it hadn't been for this initiative and there was no broad public debate on the need to change electoral legislation, I'm sure we wouldn't be here today, so before the end of the year, discussing amendments to electoral legislation. I therefore personally plead that the initiative, i.e. the motion for an initiative, should be discussed here in the Assembly as soon as possible, and that we should send it to further procedure and ultimately decide whether there will be a referendum or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90021	Continuing, dear colleague of the Iron Flego, also on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90022	Thank you, Mr. President. I also apologize for not having a colleague of the Craigs who is actually a writer of the bill's proposal, but earlier commitments prevent him from being with us today. The draft law was created on the basis of the initiative of the NGO GONG to which 30 MPs and MPs responded and the basis of whose opinion the proposal for the law was created. The basis of opinions that are strongest and most strongly supported among us 30 is in fact the proposal that those who have sinned against the law so that they have earned the rightful verdict of 6 months and more cannot participate in the adoption of new laws, because this offense, or crime, has, however you will, eliminated them from political life for sure during the trial, and perhaps later. On this proposal, some constitutional lawyers feel that there is still a need for good consideration. So there was a reaction, so we'll see what we can do about it. The second-in-a-kind support is that in our political system, legislative and executive powers should be well-determined, i.e. that mayors, mayors and mayors, so the representatives of the executive authority should not participate in legislation and that is at least two reasons. Each mayor, the mayor, represents the political system of the particular interests of his local community. Parliamentarians and MPs should primarily represent national interests and, in fact, write in our commitment. The third is a preferential voice that is very popular among the population. Please do not mind that, regardless of the small turnout in the European Parliament elections, more than 85% of those who voted were favoured with a preferential vote, regardless of the results. The political system is organised in accordance with the Constitution, and democratic systems provide for MPs and MPs to represent the people. The preferred vote is that within party or party, human preferences, let me put it this way, direct voters can choose those they think deserve the most. And we felt in our proposal that it would be optimal in the range of 1 to 7, as the proposals voted, this time we have three preferential votes that voters could use. It is terribly important to allow voters to participate in the selection of their representatives and representatives, their representatives and representatives and thus to have much more support than they have now or something different to say. In my court, it is better to support, in our court, every effort to increase the turnout of voters and voters to the elections, and in this way that those elected have much more support than they have with a 20% or 25% turnout. In addition, we are convinced that this measure will restore at least one part of the confidence in the political system or in the Parliament in relation to the existing situation. We thought the same way that the election commission would be professional, but I think that we are at the heart of the debates so far and we are inclined to give up. And also the signatures of 1500 signatories and signatories, we don't think it's any problem for those who are seriously considering politics. The problem is colleagues and colleagues of the legal aspect of our proposal, the legal aspect of the constitutional court's warning at the end of 2010. According to our calculations, which are not, so completely official, it can only be done by the Department of Administration. The difference between the smallest and the largest constituency over 30%, that means 4 and a half terms. And we should find ways to agree on how to reduce these differences because the parliamentary mandate in different constituencys, let me put it this way, is worth a different number of votes and should try to reduce that. We discussed another aspect, and I will present it with my personal emphasis, and it is a request that if this law is possible because of its importance, we can agree on key issues or key, open issues, and we can come together and show the Croatian people that we are able to agree on key issues and thus enable mutual or mutual cooperation, and that we can provide a better electoral system than we have now. I say something better, because we are convinced that the electoral system or the electoral system should be considered significantly deeper and significantly wider for which we do not now have time, of course including experts, and in the belief that this is only the first phase of the change in the electoral system in the hope that we will soon open a much wider debate on what, of course, involves within ourselves, or may include in itself and the need for some constitutional changes. My colleagues and colleagues, I therefore ask you to come to a second reading with remarks on all these five laws that, to try to find a common denominator, to insist on common and not on differences and thus to achieve an improvement in what we propose as an electoral system that would allow, therefore, greater turnout, and then to strengthen the representation of MPs and representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90023	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica of the respected representative Branka Vuksic at the presentation of counterpart Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90024	Dear counterpart Kosor, one of the first appearances here in the Croatian Parliament of Minister Arsena Bauk, was the promise that the Kukuriku coalition would go into the making of new legislation, the electoral legislation that it denied after two and a half years and how many days in one region, Prime Minister Milanovic. So those promises they made at the beginning weren't the shots to come true. I agree with you that despite the fact that we entered almost in the fourth year, at the end of the third year of this authority, we have until the middle of the second month to change electoral legislation and even more thoroughly than we have suggested. I'm one of those 30 parliamentary deputies who took part in the work, so the proposal for what you and your colleague presented, and I have to say one dilemma. And the dilemma is that, the list is made up of parties anyway, the list is made up of the party president anyway. Shouldn't it be good, then, to remove the threshold within the list, to allow citizens to compare the list according to their opinion, according to their votes? I'm not sure if it takes one or three preferential votes, I'm going to bow down to the majority and let the citizens decide who enters the Parliament. Because 14 of their people will anyway, and the party always says I was watching party presidents speak in the EU parliamentary elections, all of them are equally good. If they're all as good, then let's let the citizens compare.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90025	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90026	Thank you very much. So these proposals, or proposals at all, on preferential voting, I think they're opening up exactly, and it's good to open up a debate about it. I've also had the luck to put together the lists better, and the fact about it has already been told here in the Assembly that you have 14 seats on each list, but there's only one first and there's only one other and there's only one third. And the one you put first is fine, the one you put on the other already thinks he was, should have been the first, but he'll survive well. The third one is already a little bit dreary, the fourth one is absolute, the fifth one is down to the floor, and the one is the thirteenth, the fourteenth, and the seventh one is actually your enemy because he thinks you've humiliated him and you humiliated him. But there are only fourteen places, I repeat, and it is a great honor to be on any list, it is a great honor to be on the list of your party for the Croatian Parliament and get that chance. Because whoever's on the list has a second chance. In the event of victory go to the government, replace, come finally to Parliament. That's why I think opening this preferential space is a good thing, that this must be the beginning of our thorough debate on electoral legislation. And as for time, of course we have time. I'm the opponent of those ideas that don't want to do anything, change anything and say where right now? Well, we have plenty of time. The next year is an election year, so until the beginning of the election year, which starts the election year, means in February and we have enough time to take a small step. Small for humanity but certainly great for the composition of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90027	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90028	Thank you very much. My colleagues here and now you have reiterated the objectives of your proposal, among other things, you have noted the greater democratisation of the political parties themselves, which is certainly true, so that votes do not fail, that there is greater turnout and thus greater representation. In short, the democratisation of society as a whole. True democracy, however, does not exist without equal representation of men and women, and in the places where it is decided, I specifically speak on the lists. That's what the SDP club is proposing. So we suggest 40% of the representation of at least one sex or other sex, or sub-represented sex. And I believe you'll all support it. In addition, mechanisms need to be found to avoid playing a norm if it becomes a norm of this proposal because we are very imaginative when good things are to be played. Therefore, here is the SDP club that has preceded it, calls on everyone, especially women, but also all men, realizing that I repeat that true democratisation of society, political life is not without equal representation of men and women. The women she has in our society 51%, they are the majority, unfortunately still a political minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90029	Replicate response, distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90030	I agree, of course, that the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality that we have long agreed to try to build into electoral legislation, but in such a way that it is a real and sincere commitment of political elites, real and honest, to be an equal number. So here you're talking about 40% would actually make sense that it's 50% or that 51% or 52% because I think a woman is so much in Croatian society, so more than men. But let's say we strive for equality. However, I agree that we should do everything possible to ensure that this idea is not played out. It's easy to play, but there's something else that I'm putting into thinking here but without any intention of challenging this idea and, of course, fully aware of the dangers that I pose as a woman. So, let us take a good look at and get a good look at constitutional and legal experts on the possibility that party lists, or lists that do not have at least 40% of the sub-represented sex, should be eliminated and suspended and kicked out of the electoral process. So let us take a good look at this, to consult until the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90031	Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90032	Thank you very much. Well, without a preferential vote, there will be no internal democratisation, and then there will be no democratisation of society, and probably all of us agree. But you were talking about the incompatibility of the position of local leaders with the parliamentary mandate, and there's already been a lot of talk in this assembly. I personally agree the same that it should not be paid that local officials should not sit in the Croatian Parliament or vice versa. But to do so, several major advances would have to be made because Croatia is a pre-centralised state so that it could be allowed not to sit in this assembly as local leaders. Because we often hear debates from people, MPs, and representatives who were neither local leaders nor were, we have certain attacks against local self-government where local minority self-government is appointed as some kind of enemy. Now imagine that there are no local leaders here to make it look like one. Personally, I think this should happen, but it certainly should protect that local representation in another way. Why don't we change the system of Parliament? Why wouldn't it be here, I repeat what I said today, 100 MPs in Parliament, why not form a volunteer home as a control mechanism that would be composed of local officials? Find a way for them to choose who would be clean volunteers and who could discuss all issues related to local and regional development and give an opinion or even veto on some of Parliament's decisions as one control mechanism. In that case, it would be possible. At this point, it wouldn't be very good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90033	Replicate response, distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90034	I couldn't agree more. So I also said in my presentation and repeated several times that I highly appreciate the work of the mayor, mayor, and of course many mayors and mayors personally know and know how well they work and how much they have improved their environment, but the fact that you can best confirm as mayor that it is very difficult when you comply with all the obligations of the mayors and all the obligations of the mayor so that you are absolutely and completely satisfied with both work. As far as I'm concerned, that's why I agree, and I think it's an idea that needs to be discussed. The second home, therefore, years ago by amending the Constitution, which was in 2001, was a abolished county home, I think it should be considered to return, it is for Croatian opportunities as a member of the EU where, of course, we expect the local community to work hard with Brussels to comply with the regulations and ultimately make decisions on withdrawing funds. Let's think about introducing that other home. I think that's useful. As far as the preferential vote is concerned, you said that we all agree on that. No, there are those who absolutely disagree with it and sit here too, you agree, of course, because you signed that proposal on behalf of the family.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90035	Dear Representative Josip Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90036	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Kosor, I think you have a rich experience on how to get a list and on what happens sooner or later. I've talked about this experience a lot later, so now you'd go to the other part, and that's the legal aspect of your proposal. I was personally a member of the working group of those 30 MPs and I supported the direction in which we went, which is the introduction of a preferential vote, 3 votes 5%, a different way of democratisation of the electoral process and everything. In that work, however, he would speak of a ban on the running of persons who are legally convicted of certain types of criminal offences. We couldn't support that in the HDSSB and neither am I personally as a lawyer and for one reason, and because of the case concerning our party. It is that one of the party's founders, Mr Branimir Glavas, has been in prison for five years in Mostar, Bosnia and Herzegovina and has not used his right to regular legal way to protect his constitutionally guaranteed rights under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, if there is a verdict for which the regular legal course is not completed, the Constitutional Court's decision is pending, which I find scandalous for five years, and the reasonable period is the year so let it be two. At the same time, a decision by the European Court of Human Rights on the violation of the right to a reasonable period of time is expected. And such a person, under this proposal, would then be banned from running, the elections passed, the Constitutional Court made a decision such as or such, not prejudged by the court's decision, but it is possible to abolish and return the case to retrial when power falls, then that person loses his constitutional right to run and be elected or run in the elections. It is one legal aspect to discuss, unfortunately because of the Croatian judiciary's thrift. And today I'm thinking of the Constitutional Court. In the neighbouring country, we have examples of a completely different and much more protected by fundamental human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90037	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90038	Our proposal that prohibits, which would prohibit running for powerful verdicts until the process and period of rehabilitation for certain serious criminal offences has passed. Of course, he didn't imply any individual case and that, as you know, we didn't even talk about it or talk about it. But we need to think about it, and we will certainly discuss it until the second reading. However, I fully agree with you on the deadlines of all courts, and then, in particular, the Constitutional Court, which is something else, the institution itself, that decisions must be made within reasonable time limits. So, within deadlines that are expected to be in complicated things like the one you're talking about, especially when it comes to people who are sitting in detention. In this case, the Constitutional Court, in which many eyes stand, many expect a word of law and many expect it to be done in accordance with all the laws but also with the Constitution and the highest values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I agree with you that even in this case, the Constitutional Court should say its opinion a long time ago and thus end any kind of speculation. And as for my experience in compiling a list, my dear and dear colleague, I could write a trilogy about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90039	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MP Dragan Montenegrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90040	Thank you. My colleague Kosor, well, here I wanted to discuss one topic, and this is a ban on running. Namely, none of the proposals opened and problemed the issue of, say, parties or candidates who are in debt to the state or have their accounts blocked. There are over 120 registered parties in Croatia, there are those parties whose accounts have been blocked, and they are also in debt to the state, have not paid their profits to their people, but there are also candidates, potential candidates who owe the tax, who are in debt to some other obligations. And I think that this question should be included in, say, all of these proposals and let's say that, among other things, a certificate from the tax administration or some other institution should be brought in so that you don't owe anyone in this country where you want to participate, to create society and politics. I think this is, that should be one correct proposal for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90041	The reply to the replica of the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90042	Well, here's your proposal we'll definitely take into consideration for a second reading, and you at that united debate of all those who are proposing in this case, I think we should definitely consider it, even though I'm not convinced that we're also going to reach a consensus on this proposal that I have signed, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90043	Next replica, the esteemed Nadia Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90044	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Kosor, I will look back on just one detail of your legal proposal that you have explained. In fact, you are in favour of the legislative proposal for a preferential vote and for 3 preferential votes. So, your argument that this will increase the sense that citizens are indeed choosing and that you are vividly saying that it will contribute to the ventilation of the list, that is, the choice itself. I am indeed also in favour of a preferential vote, but not for 3 but for just 1 preferential vote, and on that trail I am therefore fully in line with my party's proposal. So, I'm afraid a 3-preferative voice model would go directly to the women's harm. So I think it would increase the sub-representation of women in the Croatian Parliament further. According to the results of the vote so far, citizens are more unfortunately identified by men, and if we were to adopt that model with 3 preferential votes, I think we would do harm to women. So we see in the last few election cycles for the Croatian Parliament, here, specifically this last 2011, we had only 19%, slightly more than 19% of the selected women, only when men went to executive functions in executive power, then that percentage increased to 25%. As far as I'm aware, you're really fighting for greater representation of women in politics, and then this legal proposal is indeed to some extent contradictory of your efforts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90045	Replica response, esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90046	As for one preferential vote, I think it's absolutely too small. 3 they open these processes and I'm more than sure, I'm not going to elaborate it now, I've said something about it. I wasn't talking about winding up parties but democratic processes, opening up democratic processes in parties because no party chief will care about who he puts on the list, it won't matter anyway, and when he doesn't, and if he doesn't get enough preferential votes from, therefore, at least the expected one and it can open processes for, of course, replacements and some leaderships and party leaders, etc. And as for the damage, you said that preferential votes are at the expense of women. I'll tell you one example that absolutely disproves it from the last euro elections. On the HDZ list absolutely the largest votes were received by two women, Mrs. Tomasic and Mrs. Petir from HSS, and had it not been for the two who had picked up the highest number of preferential votes, it would no doubt be a winning list. So women were very attractive to voters who went to the euro elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90047	The next replica, respected Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90048	Thank you. So, following your political work for many years, I must admit that I have agreed with you a few times, but this time I agree with you when it comes to supporting the proposal of the association "In the Name of the Family" about the electoral system because I really believe that such difficult times as today's Croatian times are actually required and brave people who are willing to do both real and social and economic, but also political changes. The total rating of the Croatian Parliament, which actually decreases from year to year, is, in fact, at very low levels today. But if we look at any change, if we look at today's macroeconomic image, then this macro image tells us that actually at 4.3 million inhabitants, 3.5 million adults, you in Croatia today on support wings one million to one million, and 100 thousand people get absolute leverage in the Croatian Parliament. So between a million and a million hundred thousand. This is today the state of relations of this in this electoral system, and when you are given another 7 minority MPs who go according to special law, who always add to most, you have a clean parliamentary majority that rests on the support of one third of Croatian voters. And let's look at this macro-picture and how to make this macro-picture at least so that parliamentary leverage at least needs at least a real support of at least half of Croatian voters, not one third as much as today's system makes it possible. And what we and how we need to do to actually, at least, establish such political relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90049	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90050	Thank you very much. I'm too happy that you agree with me even though, as you said, you didn't exactly get along with me, and that's why here you always have to wait and have to work patiently so you can get it, we can get to consensus. Yes, I have signed that proposal "In the name of the family" and the more I look at it and the more I read it, the more I think it is good, and the more it says that the parties themselves are going, or the pages of the parties to go to the elections themselves, and that coalitions are being put together after that because then voters, I think that it can also encourage more voters because when you get a coalition that looks like a strange beak, where there is everything and everything, both left and left and yellow and red, etc., and then you don't really know what you're going to get, anyone who gets into Parliament, who manages to go through with their own programme, then eventually joins up on the basis of that programme and joins the coalitions and I think that it would be much cleaner and that the voters would rather go out, and whether they think they're going out alone with their clean... program in Parliament, so with one, two MPs, and they could be able to be able to make such decisions, but the government. So here I am glad and I hope that you too will appeal to discuss this proposal "In the Name of the Family" here in the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible and to begin this procedure so that it does not enter the next year which is an election.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90051	Now we move on to the replicas to part of the presentation of the esteemed colleague Flege. Vice President of the House Zeljko Reiner called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90052	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Flego, we usually agree on a lot of things, so here in some things we agree on. I agree absolutely with you with your request that this law be passed by consensus, I think it is terribly important because I think that the adoption of electoral legislation far outweighs individual party interests and that it would have to reflect the interest of the entire Croatian people. I must also say that I agree with your claim that any effort should be supported to increase voter exits so that those elected to this House of Commons can truly represent those who have the right to choose. That is why I now have one request on all of us, not on you, but on all of us to support this proposal to simultaneously move towards amending the Republic of Croatia Constitution, to delete Articles 2, 3 and 4 of Articles 45. The constitution thus enables citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia to exercise voting rights in the same way as voters in Croatia. For this to be done, it would be possible for those who have the electoral right to actually do it and to participate in the election of MPs. This is how we knowingly give up one part of the electoral body, putting them in an unfavourable position. On the other hand, we're trying to correct the position of, say, women, as I say again, but let's try to correct what was not right in the present system when we all want to fix the existing system together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90053	Next replica, the esteemed Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90054	Dear fellow Flego, I think that you have not sufficiently pointed out one very important historical fact that today in the debate there is one draft law that is inter-party but not only inter-party coalitions or only oppositions but it is mixed and that one extraordinary force of 30 MPs who signed the proposal with their will is shown. Of course, we don't expect the world to change, but it was our desire to start a debate on this issue and of course how you said in your presentation that we could come to a consensus. And I would also like to refer to the second part that is currently current here in the Croatian Parliament, it is about gender equality. I think even so far, that equality could be resolved on the party lists. We did it, this here does not apply to retirement, it refers to the representation of both sexes in the Croatian Assembly of HSU, so we have two MPs and two MPs and know it is not impossible. In major parties, mathematicians are doing their job and are estimating exactly what place the list could go, and so it will be with preferential votes. And if there is a will that representation can be achieved without law, but we only know who we are and we often do nothing to set high standards in laws, and I don't think it's necessary if we think about politics differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90055	The line matches the esteemed colleague Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90056	I congratulate you on the 50-50 distribution, and this SDP endeavor is something that I, of course, support what I did symbolically and I hope we agree on. As far as GONG is concerned, I was initially told that this was the Gong proposal, basically the Gong initiative, and I am very glad that an NGO made a very serious proposal that we are discussing today. Secondly, that very fact very vividly illustrates Parliament's openness to good initiatives and I hope that it will not remain alone. And third, the quality of this law based on the GONG initiative speaks much more about GONG than I could say in 10 minutes, and then I didn't spend my time on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90057	Thank you. Now it's the fourth proposer. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the Honorable representative, Pedja Grbin, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90058	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. As in the case of current proposals, we in the SDP also feel that the existing electoral system needs to be corrected, primarily by introducing a preferential vote. The aim of such a correction is to enable greater participation and influence of citizens on the electoral process, to raise the level of citizens' confidence in elected representatives, and to increase their responsibilities, and hence the relevance of the voters' political decision. In this context, the SDP Representatives Club proposes this proposal to introduce a preferential vote in such a way that each voter, in addition to one vote which can be given to each individual list, receives another portable vote which can be given to a particular candidate on that list, with respect for the preferred votes if their number for each candidate is at least 10%. The preferential voting system shall exclude the vote for representatives of members of national minorities in view of the nature of such a vote but shall propose its application to the vote of our citizens living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. The next major change in the Electoral Law that we are proposing and which, according to us, is related to the preferential vote and necessarily stems from it is the abolition of the list holder. In the SDP, we believe that such anacronism was created at a time when one and the same candidate wanted to be the bearer of all lists, as well as in a particular municipality or city. The introduction of a preferential vote when all candidates in the constituency are no longer required on each ballot. So we propose his move from the Croatian electoral system. The third feature of our proposal, and I personally consider it the most important insistence on respecting the principle of gender equality by the promoters when identifying and proposing all parties and independent lists. Despite the provisions of the Constitution, whose gender equality represents one of the fundamental values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality in the Croatian Parliament, there is an obvious disproportionateness in gender representation in a way that is under the gender, only 26% are representatives. We in the SDP consider our obligation to make such a disproportionate correction. It is precisely in order to correct such disproportionateness and, in the light of the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality, this bill establishes the obligations of all the proposers of the list for the Croatian Parliament to ensure the minimum representation of their sexes on selected lists at least 40% in order to encourage more balanced representation of women and men in the Croatian Parliament. That such a provision may not remain just a dead letter on paper is our suggestion that lists that do not respect such a provision be unjust. As regards the provision in question, allow me to look back on the doubts about its constitutionality or the permit that has arisen in the debate so far. In the SDP, we believe that such doubts are based primarily on the fact that such a type of positive discrimination is explicitly permitted by the primary law of the European Union, so Croatia is also the future of Article 23. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union prescribes: "The equality of women and men must be ensured in all areas including employment, work and payment. The principle of equality does not prevent the retention or adoption of measures which introduce specific benefits in favour of the underrepresented sex.". Therefore, the law of the European Union which is the competence of the national rights of the Member States of the European Union and the basis of Article 145. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the law of the Republic of Croatia expressly allows for positive discrimination in order to ensure the equality of the sub-represented sex. And individual documents of the European Union go further and are proposed a way in which a single list would not be valid unless it respects the proposed rule set out as the only truly effective mechanism for ensuring gender equality in the authorities. These are the three changes that we consider necessary in the SDP as the most significant in relation to the existing law. In addition to this proposal, however, we also provide for a whole series of other amendments and additions to the existing law, such as a special arrangement for the President of the Republic of Croatia to decide on the calling of elections and on the legal relevance of its entry into force. The provisions governing electoral promotion have been amended and the objective of the amendment is to modernise, streamline the rules on the conduct of electronic media in the Republic of Croatia during the electoral promotion in order to better determine the forms and time of monitoring of the electoral promotion of all participants in the elections. The provisions of this proposal shall be in line with the provisions of the Law on the register of voters allowing persons deprived of their ability to exercise electoral rights. The proposal harmonizes the termologically with the terms introduced by the new Croatian electoral legislation, for example, with the determination of valid and invalid ballots. In addition, special ways of declaring voters are regulated and those who are unable to access the polling post and the disabled voters. Since the transparency and openness of the process of implementing the election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament is a prerequisite for strengthening democratic society, these are these proposed revised provisions governing election observation, etc. We in the SDP know that we have not touched the total problem of our electoral legislation but we have tried to touch those problems and recommendations that we think are necessary and can be corrected without comprehensive reform. Simply, in the present, I would say the tried-out electoral model we have in mind all of its good and bad sides have incorporated provisions which we hold to improve its technical functioning but also enable citizens to have a greater influence on who will represent them in the highest representative body of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90059	Thank you. We will now hear the proposal from the IDS club, presented by respected colleagues Valter Boleunčić and Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90060	Good afternoon, Mr. Vice President. Here we are also joining this effort to change the electoral law all in order to increase democracy. First of all, I must say that, in principle, we believe that it is necessary to pass a whole and consistent law that should cover the elections, not to say from the local committees until the election for the President, i.e. for the European Parliament. However, such a process is neither simple nor short - lived and considering that the last year before parliamentary elections is for such a thing and there is no time. Although it may seem that the Electoral Law is very simple if we look at only the European Union countries, we see that there is a very large difference in the electoral laws of each country and in those countries that have a longer democratic tradition than we do there are different ways than the majority ways, proportional to the single-vote preference, preferences 2, 3, 4, with different weights in which the list is placed the one that gets the preference. So choosing one real Electoral Law that suits a particular state isn't just a simple copy of it from someone else. I also believe that the electoral law to be passed should be relatively simple. Not only because of transparency but it must be simple in this sense that one who votes more or less knows exactly how to valorize that voice. Different models that are given sometimes can hide little. As for the Electoral Law that we are going to propose, I think it would be a mistake to take on one side that it is now a law that will get us out of the crisis or that will be the best Electoral Law. I also believe that this Electoral Law should be taken as a transitional step towards a comprehensive and consistent electoral law, and the next assembly of parliament should immediately start working on one Electoral Law, which should be consistent with all levels of elections, from local committees and beyond. What we would certainly like and what we will give our efforts is to make an election law if it is possible to reach a consensus of all parties in the Assembly because it is something that should be worth not only to say if there is a certain domination of one party in the Assembly and that the next election of the Assembly is amended by the Electoral Law. The changes that are being made can be all agreed that they are definitely encouraged by certain shared confidence of citizens in the party and in the processes of the Electoral Law itself. That is why we need to see the next option, which is that the problems that have arisen, which we are discussing today, are likely to not be solved only by the Electoral Law. There should be ways to influence the laws on parties, and perhaps to improve certain Rules of Procedure of Representatives, at least through form and procedure, to further highlight their importance. The basic points of our proposal are as follows. I note once again, we treat this as one interstep with changes that can certainly improve democraticity in the vote, but not as one whole law that should be passed in the future. We consider, the main points are to allow one preferential voice, to delete the holder of the list. We think it would be quite logical if someone needed it to be the first candidate on the list. We also believe that the candidate on a particular list must be resident in that election unit in which he is elected. We also introduce certain technical changes that cannot in any way disrupt democracy and regularity, but can save more than 10 million kunas in the elections. And what may be quite important, which a fellow Furio will talk about later, is to finally enable Article 15. The Constitution guarantees the right of national minorities to have, in addition to general, a special right to vote in the selection of their representatives. As for the preferential vote, we also handed over the Law on Election Units. We remain in order to remain 10 electoral units with 14 candidates each. These additional diaspora electoral units and national minority representatives also remain, so 11 and 12. We believe that the threshold that a list of 14 candidates achieves to take into account that its candidates enter the Parliament is 5%, and the preferred vote we represent the position of one vote should be 10% for the European elections. So that a certain candidate on the list based on preferential votes progresses on the list should achieve at least 10% of the vote. On this basis, a ranking list is created where first come those with preferential votes over 10%, and then the rest of the list based on the initial composition of the list. We believe that the candidate on a particular list must have residence in that constituency because otherwise, if that is not the case then it would be freely said that the whole of Croatia is one electoral unit. We still have division by election units. As for the rights of national minorities, we support the adoption of a provision in Article 15 of the Constitution which says that members of national minorities have the right in addition to the general right of vote and the special right to vote in the selection of their national representatives. So it remains, as so far, the election of three representatives of Serbian and one-per-one representatives from these other national minorities, but we allow whoever wants to vote for another list. Furthermore, I'd just like to look back on one technical part. We believe that the procedure itself, technically, for the conduct of the elections, could be significantly reduced cost-effectively. For the time being, therefore, election committees have two deputies, presidents and three party-chosen members. We believe that election committees, meaning all polling stations remain as they have so far, there is nothing reduced, but they would be variable with 3, 4 or 5 members, depending on whether the polling place is up to 500, 500 to 1000 or over 1000 members. The parties would not have the right to determine board members, but of course they can attend polling stations as observers, so there would be no harm to regularity. The commissions, we believe, should remain only city committees, and municipalities and election committees from them would therefore strive towards the nearest city as far as election committees are concerned. Nor should the deputy be appointed. In this way, we believe that more than 10 million kuna could be saved in the technical conduct of the elections, without distorting any democracy or regularity that the elections would be. And I say, our proposal still consists of a proposal from the election units to be listed in the next one seems to me to be a proposal that will be discussed in the Parliament. So we think that what is very important, if we are already going to change the Electoral Law that at least those provisions that the Constitutional Law said are not constitutional, means the size of the electoral units or what is prescribed by the Constitution, which is the right of national minorities to at least include it in the proposals of our law. Once again, I think you should come by consensus. We are prepared to agree either on any changes or other suggestions in the laws, and that is a question that definitely concerns all parties and all parliamentary deputies. Here I'd like to ask my colleague Furi to explain this part of the election a little bit more.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90061	The proposal will continue to explain my colleague Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90062	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The IDS Club has joined these efforts to amend the Election Law with regard to the introduction of a preferential vote, these changes, and these changes have been known to come under the pressure of civil society. As much as we hide behind the size of our parties, we must admit that this proposal came from civil society whether we or not agree with the ideology of this part of civil society from which this initiative came. So the parties joined. We assume that in the end there will be changes that will not disrupt the party's Partophilic, not to say the party's system because we believe that the parties will be very careful not to have an earthquake within. A colleague, Boluncic, spoke about the type of preferential vote he agrees on and suggests the club IDS. I'm going to talk about how IDS has always nurtured a proactive minority policy that is clear. By coming to Istria, it is perceptively clear because bilingualism is seen, because the use of language is seen, the use of language is heard almost at all levels of public life, and because there is one history that is accepted not only by the minority, but which is far more important than the majority people who lived in Istria and other peoples living in Istria. Such a proactive policy has led to the fact that the IDS always proposes and always supports, among other things, the additional right to vote, which has become a constitutional category since 2000, so as to assume a formulation from the Constitution on additional voting rights, the IDS suggests that Article 38a be added in Article 38a. And it says, "The voters can only vote once and only for one list of candidates. The voters on the ballot can mark one candidate who takes precedence over the other candidates on the list he voted for." It's to prefer the voice. The exception is members of national minorities who can achieve besides the general and special right of voting to choose their representative in the Croatian Parliament. It's a formula from the Constitution. Of course, we all know that the history of the additional vote in the House is unfortunate. We know that the constitutional law and the electoral law have changed in the past term and that the Constitutional Court then abolished these changes three months before the elections, regardless of what many documents exist, the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution, the opinion of the Venice Commission that should prevent this. It didn't take away, it wasn't the reason that the Constitutional Court didn't actually go into abolishing and joining two laws old and new, the copy paste system led to one newspaper at all in constitutional theory and gave us actually the electoral system we had in the past, for the last elections. We now want to correct it because the Constitutional Court could not admit that the additional vote was actually a constitutional category. That possibility has been left, and that is why we are going back to change. Of course, the IDS Club and the Proposers I mean generally that I can't argue, but I hope that, yes, they will accept other models which, for example, may concern minorities above 1 and a half percent better said to the Serb national minority who, in the last elections, actually proposed a different system for the last elections, a different model that the Constitutional Court then abolished. This does not prevent a better model from being proposed today. Such an amendment will be accepted immediately by the IDS club. But we didn't want to get into a model like that, because it's not really, it wouldn't lead to results that would guarantee that they were accepted. Therefore, the IDS Club proposes to introduce an additional right to vote because this is reflected by the Constitution in Article 15, which reflects national minorities, respects them. Because a member of the national minority will not have to choose between ethnic and political votes in this case, but after each citizen in Croatia will vote politically. Or if we want to after being a member of the national minority vote, ethnically they will also be able to vote politically. We in Istria have another reason to suggest such a model. And that is, there is a contract between Croatia and Italy that talks about the Italian minority in Croatia and Slovenia. It is not just about the Italian minority in Croatia taking it as one body in Croatia and Slovenia. It's the law. It's a law that's superior to other laws because it's an international contract. That international contract actually says there is one minority. It is known that part of our minority living in Slovenia votes exactly in the way we now propose to vote. So in addition to the political rights of our member of this group, which Italy and Croatia agree is one, Slovenia is of course not in agreement because it did not sign, it is agreed in half, which is why it did not sign the document but Croatia and Italy agree, and then by analogy there is also this thing that we in Istria take as important. I leave it to you to take it as important or not, but an international contract is an international contract that says that the rights acquired must be respected. Let's move on. The most important point is that national minorities are both citizens and members of the national minority. That's why they need a proactive policy, and that's why they need both civil and national rights. It may be called positive discrimination but I think it is in any case and above all a proactive policy, before positive discrimination, before the positive rights as some other peoples call it in some other languages as we will talk about that being just. It's just because it puts us in the same position as others. That's why since 1992, there's XII. election unit. Another possible system that could have been introduced was the one that was just in 1992, however much we criticized that year. In 1992, out of 125 MPs who were elected 65 were elected majority and 60 were elected proportionally so that a member of the national minority when he came to vote he could vote for parties as a citizen, and then he had to choose an ethnic or political voice only when he had to choose the majority. So, in the proportional part, he expressed his civil rights and in the majority section, if he wanted to, of course, his national rights. It would be one possible system for the future because for the future we usually go back to the past, so it would be a good way to go back to the future back in '92. A year. This is how we propose a preferential vote, however, but with the introduction of additional voting rights for national minority representatives with the possibility of a national minority, I say here and I refer it to a fellow Montenegrin who is sitting there, with the possibility of giving an amendment to a national minority above 1.5% if it does not agree with a clear additional vote right rather than if he has other possible ideas. As far as additional voting rights are concerned. In terms of sub-represented sex, or gender equality, we agree with both the SDP club and all others who have proposed 40% of women on the candidate lists and if they are not allowed to go to elections, we fully agree with that, with one add-on and to introduce a ZIP system or a cycle system as we speak in Istria or a system to make one man, one woman on that list. Because otherwise, women can be everything at the end of the list, they meet the form, and there's no result. That'll be our proposal in the second reading, sure. But let's not forget that there's no reason for too much to read here with other people's feathers, precisely this system, of course not the ZIP system because it wasn't the atmosphere for that yet, but from 40% of the proposed and regulated the Law on Gender Equality which in this Assembly, Kosor remembers very well it was accepted only by one vote against and one abstention which was claimed to have been wrong to vote. The one against it didn't vote wrong. So, pro-active policies for minorities and pro-active policies for women and men because, as the rights of minorities are, in fact, the rights of majority people are so women and the rights of men because they are the rights of entire citizens, of all humanity. These are basic human rights. The IDS agrees and supports that human rights are respected, promoted and they are governed by a proactive policy. Because human rights change, don't they? I guess there's one evolution in this regard. What we're proposing is actually the expression of an evolution, not a revolution, because revolution would be what's fair with big P, and that's 50% of men and 50% of women. Because the woman has 52%. And finally, there was one here, and there will be another debate on whether only one candidate is proposed on the preferential list, as we propose both SDP or three candidates as suggested by some other groups of MPs. Statistically speaking, one or three methodologically, one or three, mathematically speaking, one or three is completely irrelevant if the numbers are rounded. But it doesn't really matter if you say it, if you say it first, second, third. If known, if the results are weighted, if you know who got the first vote, which got the second vote, and who got the third vote. In that second case, a list of three candidates has, a selection of three candidates or two candidates makes sense. If not, one, two or three is completely irrelevant, so I'm giving it to you for a second reading. In 1992, in the Croatian Parliament, 18 members of national minorities were selected by key, according to a special key. Thirteen Serbs and five from other national minorities. In 1995, there were seven representatives of national minorities, four from small national minorities and three Serbs. In 1999-2000, when the elections were held, there were five representatives of national minorities, four of all national minorities and one Serb. In 2003 there were eight representatives of national minorities, five from small and below 1.5% according to the new Constitutional Law and three Serbs which continued to date. You'll be wondering why the National Minority Club doesn't have its own proposal, its original proposal? Because the history of election laws when it comes to national minorities in this House is unfortunate. And representatives of national minorities are always afraid that there will be a regression because history shows it. However, we have consulted national minorities, in this case because it is an additional right to vote by a small national minority and therefore we can also speak on behalf of them, who all agree, of course, to amend that provision and to introduce the final additional right of vote and to correct this injustice. Also, I end up with that, and we're open to other ways. Thank you very much for your patience, and I'll see you for another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90063	Thank you. He had a single replica reported. Dear colleague Nenad Dances. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90064	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague, Radin, I've been listening to your debate, and I've had to replicate it because I can't agree with one of your claims from the beginning when you realized there wasn't a civil initiative, or the association wouldn't be discussing in this House today about this law. And then the political parties just got attached, or added to their laws. I would disagree in that sense because we have sent our bill to the parliamentary procedure on July 10th, before that, counterpart Natalija Martincevic sent her bill also in the procedure. And if the beginning of the autumn session, in the autumn part of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, were this that the proposal was on the agenda then the initiative would not collect signatures of support for the referendum on the Electoral Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90065	The answer to Fury Radin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90066	And I guess my last intention is to defend Mrs. Markic, so I agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90067	We're done exposing the motionor. I ask if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First by clubs, of course. On behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90068	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues I will say the same as my colleague Furija Radin is the least of my interests to defend Mrs. Željko Markic, but it is necessary to tell the truth. Only when Mrs Zeljka Markic announced an initiative to collect signatures for the referendum was then the parties began to make their proposals. The first was Mrs. Zeljka Markic. Compared to Željko Markić, I have already said that in the replica, I am ideologically distant from light years. I do not represent the values represented by Mrs Zeljka Markic, but that is no reason not to give her recognition and to say that today we would not be discussing in the Croatian Parliament on the change of electoral legislation if there was no initiative and there was no collection of signatures. We have learned this already from, not only these parliamentary majority and other parliamentary majority that unfortunately politicians, and particularly statesmen should be visionaries, they should be those who are ahead, not those who are coughing for the people, and only when they are cut off by the people want to outrun, this time the association "In the name of the family" and someone said before, sneak up, don't jump in, just hurry up and reduce their mistakes. Why, someone asked me why change electoral legislation in the first place? We've heard before that our Electoral Law is neither the worst nor the best. So if milk and honey were to flow in Croatia, if in Croatia it were to grow GDP, if industrial production were to be at an envious level, if Parliament were to function impeccably, if the government were to do its job in an appropriate way, it was certain that no one, no one, would think of changing electoral legislation and that no civil initiative, not a single association even remembered to start collecting signatures to change anything. On several occasions, more politicians have shown concern about what will happen now if we accept the initiative of several clubs, a group of MPs for a preferential vote. I heard from the vice president the other day, the first vice president of the Croatian government, that she said she could come, and that was said to a group of 30 MPs, concerned that the parliament could estradise, that politics could be estradised, that the lists would probably include those who were not up to politics, those who did not deal with politics, those who did not have an affinity towards politics, and as if we all had an affinity towards politics, as if we were all born politicians and as if we were all educated in politics. The other thing is, you remember well that the parties have tried very hard to carry out a kind of estheradisation and have placed on their lists very well-known persons, writers, singers, athletes. This practice has been abandoned because they have seen that the people recognize what baits are and what politicians or people who can be politicians or people who can contribute to better citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is expressed in debates where I was concerned that politicians, or party chiefs, would try to remove all those dissidents in the parties that are bothering them, from the list, and that they will not be listed at all because they fear that you, under quotes from dissidents, could get more votes from party heads. Tell me what would have happened if there were no Tonina Picules on the Euro Parliament list who admitted that he hadn't spoken to Mr Zoran Milanovic in a year? Well, that list almost didn't go through. And, of course, it didn't occur to Mr. Zoran Milanovic that Tonino Picula would not be on the list, and he was valued by voters as 5 on the list by the voters. It's the same with the HZD list and its coalitions, so they didn't get the most votes first, two women got the most votes. I don't think that's because they're women, but because they're good politicians or they've judged them, I don't think they are, that's how voters assessed them, and they have the right to judge them that way. So, it's not, it's neither a threat nor an estradisation threat, it's not a threat that party leaders could move the most popular politicians in their parties off the list because then they'll judge themselves. In the debates, so often said Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, I heard from the chief of the strongest opposition party, Mr Karamark, that it is not the time to change electoral legislation, that there are much more important problems in the Republic of Croatia than electoral legislation and that they should be dealt with. I think it's a pure substitute... and it's the greatest delusion. In fact, the electoral legislation we have today has led to both the crisis and the moral crisis and the economic crisis. First of all, we know that the most important diploma is a party book. That the most important characteristic of the people in the parties is the likeness and obedience. That public companies are headed by people who are obedient, similar and who have a party book, that's what happened before, that's what happens today. We know that when it comes to early elections, I often hear the argument that early elections will not be and that no one is crazy enough to tear down their own coalition and that people in the ruling coalition will not raise their hands against themselves to leave the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible because they have come to the lists with the will of the party heads. They became parties where the bosses did not list and did not influence the order of the list. There has been a crisis because those elected to the Croatian Parliament do not primarily respond to their voters but respond to their parties and their party heads. And that is why it is entirely guilty of the thesis that there will be chaos if it is the voters who will decide who will go to the Parliament, it will be the first, who the second, who the third. That's why I'm pushing for the threshold to be lifted inside the list. As I said before, whether it be party heads or party bodies, the parties will form lists. Now I'm talking about 14 MPs if the electoral units don't change, so 14 MPs and parties are already determining who these people are going to be, these 14 persons of women and men on the lists. Why not allow voters to line up and choose who they want in the hall, isn't that democratic? Which is why the 10% electoral threshold, which is why the 5% electoral threshold? You know that on Kukuriku's election list, the 10% electoral threshold has passed only one person, only one person, not even another person who was first on the list... did not pass the 10% electoral threshold, but it would be fair for the other person to be and the other to mean the second one with the highest number of votes regardless of whether it's 10%, 8% or 5% should enter the Parliament and behind it all the others who received votes and that would be democratic. But we allow these solutions to be decided by voters up to 10%, and the rest will be decided by the parties. Very few voters will decide if the 10% threshold remains. How democratic we are and how seriously we take electoral legislation speaks enough of electoral units that differ in size and 30%. As counterpart Flego said before, these are 4.5 electoral terms of office. That's undemocratic, and the constitutional court said unconstitutional. How did we deal with that? So to this day, we did not even discuss it in the congregation. We do not respect our own laws or the Republic of Croatia's constitution, and voters should trust us. As I said at the beginning, we swear to this speaker in the right of civil society to initiate initiatives, we swear that we are all equal, we swear to everyone's rights. How long? So long as those who have equal rights verbally don't start initiatives. When they start initiatives, they become dangerous. Then they're dangerous for what? Because they're probably jeopardizing those who don't do their job. What should have been done was done by some others and forced the Croatian Parliament's policy, and above all by the Croatian government, which gave a moment to the Croatian Parliament to accept club initiatives and to accept initiatives and "In the name of the family", but it should be fair and GONG. At the very end, because much has already been said, the greatest measure of democracy does not mean the greatest measure of freedom, nor the greatest measure of equality, but the greatest measure of participation. If these amendments to the electoral legislation do not reach and if we do not make it possible for the elections to go as many voters as possible, even though the next assembly of the parliament will be decided by 30 per cent, 40 per cent of Croatian citizens aged, then we have done little. And this is an obligation not only by the authorities but also by the opposition to do everything to make the upcoming vote as many voters as possible. And to get out as many voters as we can, we need to listen to their will. And they also told these signatures, but also in the debates in which they participated, above all, that they did not want in the Parliament those who were convicted of criminal acts. A number of them were declared to be as much adversaries, mayors for incompatibility of functions, there is no man who can be mayor of the big city at the same time, and a parliamentary representative, at the same time behave in one function and another. And next, the preferential vote is not controversial to anyone. It should also not be disputed that all parties in the Croatian Parliament reach an agreement and that the second reading of the proposal will be acceptable to all and will be on the trail of Croatian citizens' wishes. And Croatian citizens are very much from day to day ordering what they want from politics. They want to change and change can be achieved exactly by changing the electoral legislation that I say is the cause of many evils in Croatian politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90069	Thank you. We have reported two replicas. First respected colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90070	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is a few more colleagues Vuksic around Mrs Markic, you mentioned some statements and it was interesting to see how in fact the biggest parties unanimously opposed this initiative without obviously any agreement but agreed against the initiative. And one of the particularly ridiculous statements of the same high-ranking official was that the initiative was launched for Mrs Markic to enter the parliament. It's only by itself primarily funny because Mrs. Markic to get... with anyone and who would put it on the list, and surely there are such interested people would enter without a problem in the Croatian Parliament, so these were arguments that were absolutely and in reality they weren't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the rejection of the idea of even launching a debate on amending electoral legislation and also to discuss this initiative In the name of the family are two thesis that are then put first. The first is that you mentioned we have much more important work to do, and then we don't need to discuss it, which is completely pointless, and the second is, we want to do it, but we want a comprehensive depth analysis and change. It's actually in the reality of the messages, we don't want to change anything. As for the preferential vote, here is the survey conducted by Ipsos Puls shows, therefore, based on the 2011 vote in the parliamentary elections of all parties. The voters of all parties decide over 72% to go to preferential and go from of course to 90% to 100% of some voters who are definitely seeking a preferential vote. Therefore, there should no longer be any debate about this, and we must go to at least the next parliamentary elections, at least in that sense to amend the Electoral Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90071	The replica corresponds to the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90072	Comrade Kosor, I agree with you on the matter of Mrs. Zeljke Markic. When it is said that she has some hidden political ambitions, why should they be hidden and why should she not enter the Parliament? What is it to have ambitions to enter the Parliament? So everyone can, she can't go. I repeat, although we are far away from light years of ideological age. Its right to enter the Croatian Parliament, it is its right to show political ambitions, it is its right to launch initiatives and I am envious of her energy, will and engagement. Instead of being grateful, we treat it enormously. We can criticize her way but that doesn't mean she doesn't have the right to do what she does. Another thing and an initiative to change electoral legislation, whenever it came better it came now than it did in a year, two years or five years. So we won't look back on the past, and most parliaments have accepted that, I hope that we agree and accept what is what is what everyone and what can change and can change a lot of things, can change the electoral boundaries. We must correct this injustice so that there is no 30% difference, so that the votes of all Croatian citizens are worth the same, not that some are worth less and some are worth more. Deep analysis, well, deep analysis we're, we can see what it's like from the plane, what's wrong now, relationships don't work, they say there's going to be chaos. So you think there could be more chaos than today, that there could be a bigger crisis. Perhaps new people who will come to the Croatian Parliament will bring a lot of good, I hope it will not be worse than today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90073	Second replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90074	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Vuksic, party bosses, and a list. I must say that by introducing a preferential vote that will be much easier for party bosses to create lists, much less problems than it was before, believe me. And that's just the way it is, and I don't see any reason why one of the party presidents would have anything against it. But it is legitimate that every party's right to plead and make its views known on a proposal. So are those who are against and those who are ultimately able to decide and it is good to make it public, to say it publicly. You spoke again about the incompatibility and responsibilities of local leaders and parliamentary representatives. And I'll say it again and I'll repeat it a thousand more times if I have to, I agree, but let's not change it like this, so let's move on with our time. Not because in Croatia which is a terribly fiscally centralized state and simply local self-government is what someone out there finds, some small, unwanted child in the extreme case and it is simply very difficult to function if local self-government problems are not highlighted in this assembly. So I repeat absolutely that let's be incompatible duties but let's talk about cutting costs. Let's reduce the composition of this House to 100 people, let's start some volunteer Senate or some other home that will be drawn up by volunteers from local officials who will be able to represent the interests of local self-government and give guidance and veto to this House if they make any decision that the local level disagrees with.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90075	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90076	Dear counterpart Hrg, the interests of local self-government should be represented by all parliamentary representatives. All MPs should fight for decentralisation. These parliamentary deputies were elected somewhere, chosen by the people in election units. You have seen that often, and you have been in a position, not you personally, but your party has participated in government on several occasions, when mayors or mayors vote against the interests of their own cities, their own environments. So don't say here that the mayors, the mayors, are sitting here to make it easier to implement policies in their places. That's not true. The practice in the Parliament disproves you and defuses that side that's in power. The opposition then always complains about it. Yeah, I'm in favor of incompatibility because I don't think one man can do two quality jobs. If it was going to be a lot easier for party bosses, it would be, and I agree with you. It's going to be a lot easier, it's going to take 14 people to choose who's going to be 1, who's going to be 14, really by the number of votes. However, the party heads were afraid not of it, because of the 13 others on the list but because of themselves, because of their vanity. What if the party's head of the big party is lined up on that 10th list? You know how much he falls authority in that party when he gets less than Picule and than 5-6 forwards, that he's 7, 8, which is his strength. This will also help the parties and then the parties will see that they may have the wrong bosses at the head of the parties, not to enjoy citizens' trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90077	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives' Club, the respected Josip Salapic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90078	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. It is good that the Croatian Parliament, as the most representative body of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in one way or another, opens this question if it will give its result and this debate today in the first reading and finally our joint decision on this better life for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. To the truth, the debate took place in the morning, perhaps in one direction that I thought might be small and different, and as the end of the day nears, there is less and less MPs and MPs in the Assembly, and this speaks of how we take responsibility for the duties for which we have been elected by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The result of all these five legislative proposals of the "In the Name of the Family" initiative, the result of 380 000 citizens' signatures, I think it is more important, it is not important whose initiative, it is important whether it is recognized by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as their own, because when a large number of people think the same thing, then we who are representatives of the people of this House should ask ourselves what we are doing here and what our views for the future are, and in the interests of our citizens, our country. If we are a blind tax with healthy eyes and we do not see that politics has become the dirtiest business in this country, there is no respect for any one state official or local official for one single reason: we believe that citizens are disappointed with the politics and the country in which we live. Nothing has changed, whether the Government is left or right. There are several exceptions, exceptions, and this is about someone's personality and humanity. Generally, the way policy works can be freely said, I speak for myself, there are a lot of corruption, a lot of corrupt people, dishonest faces and a lot of irresponsible people who take on those duties they are not up to. So I sincerely hope that the Croatian Parliament, the representative body of the people of Croatia, will be what it used to be, and sometimes in this House here, it was spoken with the honorable Croatian Parliament and representatives of the Croatian Parliament who had more trust in the people than we have today. If someone wins the election on promises, on plans, was it Plan 21, whether plans for a better Croatia, a different Croatia, a European Croatia, a left or right, no one can claim the right to love his country more, whether he is left or right or a member of a centre or a national minority, whether Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality, either Italian, Hungarians, Ukrainians, Russian, let no one be offended. We're all one, one nation and one country. What's going on here, I think there's a lot of dishonesty, a lot of figs in your pocket. All of us wrote the initiative at some point, and if we are hiding behind the Rules of Procedure, which was on the agenda, was it June, July, August, September, one important thing: that we are in front of the Constitutional Court's decision whether the Constitutional Court will confirm because of the inability of the state administration that even in the country in which we live knows how many citizens have the right to vote, where seats can be voted, and how many Croatian citizens can exercise their constitutional right, which is to vote according to the country's legal regulations. We don't know that, our government doesn't know that, our institutions don't know that, our ministries and we are now waiting for the Constitutional Court's decision whether an initiative with 380 000 signatures has gathered enough support for Croatian citizens to call a referendum. That's what we find embarrassing. We could have asked for a consensus, and we should have done so, we sent such a letter to the President of the Parliament before today's debate because today we will discuss five legislative proposals that are similar, which are nothing new because this already exists in the practice of our obligations that we have fulfilled when Croatia enters the European Union. And this was a recommendation from the European Commission to our negotiating teams, our conclusion of the negotiations, that the way representatives from the Republic of Croatia are elected to the European Parliament in a much fairer and more democratic way, which is a preferential vote, that those people, as well as most Croatian citizens, are recognised as their representatives in the European Parliament, be truly true representatives of Croatia's interest, and that happened. This is just another version in a different way. Croatia is no longer one electoral unit but 10 according to the current rules we have. We choose 14 parliamentary deputies in a way we wanted or did not want the political parties to be able to decide otherwise which 14 elected Croatian citizens will be able to trust in the elections. Again, the tool is under allegations of power by political parties, and we are a country that is parliamentary democracy and should be respected. And let the citizens of those who follow our work here in Parliament, in the ministries, decide in the Government whether someone deserves to represent their country's interests here in the interests of their people or to keep an empty or full chair, and in four years of office they do not make their contribution to at least that part of the small part that each of us has, which is that we can use common sense to say what we think of those fundamental human problems, which is the most common life of our citizens of Croatia. Because there aren't them and we are, but we are representatives of the people. And there I don't agree with the initiative on behalf of the family who, in one part of their public appearance, spoke there, and we are you, and the people are there. No, that's not true. We are representatives of the people under all those rules that have been implemented in this country since Croatia's independence until today we have been elected in accordance with our legal regulations, and there are no two peoples. One is the people. And while that is the case, all MPs should be representatives of those parts and those of their constituents who chose them, as well as of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's fair. No bargaining, we're these, they're them. Let the future assembly of the Parliament also say the future laws which are of the parliamentary representatives, individuals deserve to be represented in the future assembly of the Croatian Parliament. So we can be aware, it doesn't matter that it's not about any MP, not personally, not to me who's standing here talking, not to any of you, if anyone in 99% of cases is afraid to lose their chair, and I didn't give anything to make the job that should have been honorable to represent my people here not as it is on the street today, but as it should be here today, which is that about normal things, about the future of Croatia, we need to know about the common interests. It'll be another country. It will really be a better Croatia then. As far as all these legal proposals are concerned, there is nothing wrong with any of them. So, our destiny wanted us to do it or not to give the public, the citizens of Croatia are asking for representatives on the lists, at all levels of the election to choose by name and last name, and we must respect that will. It doesn't even matter what the Constitutional Court decides with regard to these legal regulations, the forest of riots in the forest of meaningless regulations that we couldn't put into one or two normal so that we can all manage and know how many people in our country have the right to vote. We must respect the large number of citizens asking us to do this, which is that future elections are held so that we choose representatives by name and last name on the lists and by HDSSB, our club will support it. We have participated in the work of various groups, round tables, where we have contributed to changing this and should give citizens an opportunity to decide their future in some better and different Croatia than it is today. As far as technical matters are concerned, we support it if it is going to go in such a way of preferential voting, that people, Croatian voters should be given the opportunity to use their preferential voice in a way that they can give three votes on one list. Whether it will be a threshold of five or ten percent can still be discussed until the second reading. We believe that a vote without a threshold might slightly question some other political circumstances about how to get the list together, as I repeat it is still a certain instrument of political power in the hands of large and larger political parties and the president of political parties. That's what to think about. As for the ban on acting as mayors and mayors under the new electoral regulations, there's only one thing we can say. There is no reasonable reason for the mayors to have different levels of responsibility in the same way than the mayors and mayors cannot be parliamentary representatives. I can run for office, but I can't take the job and the mayors can do it. We stand up for everyone or no one can. Therefore, there is no difference as to why a mayor or mayor might better lobby and represent the interests of his municipality, city or county than the mayors and mayors can today in this particular way, and not the mayors. It depends on the personal ability and responsibilities of the person, mayor or mayor or mayor who has made the commitment to achieve this, and the best result and assessment of this will also be voters in his local community who will decide what that man was doing in a term of four years. It's not us to judge. So we're either gonna ban everyone or we're not gonna ban anyone. As far as other proposals are concerned, and above all, in my replica, I have referred to the prohibition of running for persons who are legally convicted of various forms of crime. There should be caution in one fact only. There are decisions of courts that have not fully fulfilled their forms of power. Does every citizen of Croatia have the right to seek his legal path in accordance with the Constitution, the protection of his fundamental constitutional rights at all levels of courts. There are cases, I've said it here, I'll repeat after this pay phone that the persons convicted haven't used their legal path of protection until the end. The HDSSB has given support to the amendment of these electoral laws, but we do not want to do this for one single reason for protesting the Croatian judiciary and for the way in which different courts in Croatia sometimes act completely unfairly. It is scandalous that one subject, and as regards Mr. Glavas, who is the founder of our party, is a person who has been serving a sentence in prison for five years and has the right to say that he is innocent because he has not used his regular legal path, which is that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has been unable to decide for 5 years whether someone has the right to appeal or not. Is it normal for you to have a man in prison for five years at the same time, at the same time, he wants to be banned from the right to run? And what if after 5 years or 5.5 years or 6 years when someone remembers saying that this procedure might be lifted and retrialed, what does that mean? That she was forbidden by the Constitutional Court or this Parliament to run. There are exceptions and there are dangers because it should be said that persons, it is okay if someone is proven guilty, and what about those cases where no guilt has been proven and where there is no legal way of protecting fundamental human rights that is contrary to the constitutional principle that no one is guilty until proven guilty? Some elements of power, elements... require comprehensive reforms of Croatian society, whether state administration, state as a whole, or judiciary. It's something to think about in advance, for the future. So that we don't take someone's head off just because someone has the right to believe in this country that he's not guilty and that he can seek protection from that court that should protect fundamental human rights, which is the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. That's why in this section you need to be careful. Not everything is exactly how black is written on certain regulations, certain decisions, and procedures. Unfortunately, we have witnessed that in this country we have created tools, instruments, and laws on the other side of Mark’s square to live above someone’s life fates. That needs to be changed. We here or God forbid someone else if he's smarter and more capable than us. No one is God above God, and no matter what instrument gives him authority and responsibility in the hands of him, he needs to be careful. It is necessary to respect the will of anyone who respects this country and this country and this people to have the right to seek their way, their protection to the end, even if that fate depends on those who have no mercy toward their citizens. In the second reading of the law, we hope that before possible misunderstandings on the issue of technical nature will agree on a consensus at the Presidency of the Assembly of All Clubs of Representatives. We gave support to everyone, all the initiatives we thought were going into that line that our citizens and the public were looking for. Our club signed the "In the Name of the Family" initiative for the sake of the three-way system and for reasons we would never have discussed all five opposition proposals this way if it hadn't been for what happened on the streets of Croatian cities, that people hadn't signed this. So once again, when we were already justified in the morning why opposition laws are some on the 70th order of the Croatian Parliament, some will never come to the debate, some will wait for some better times, different Croatia, etc. and closer, so there are instruments of goodwill. The Rules of Procedure are one thing, the way we put the bill's proposals is another, and the third is what the political will or the majority of this Parliament thinks. When all these three cubes agree, then we will have a parliamentary state, a parliament from which the government is able, politicians who are responsible, not corrupt and corrupt, mean and rude people to their friends today just because they think otherwise. And we will have citizens who have the security to sit in this Parliament and our government people who really love their people and their country. Until it's different we can just justify ourselves and say that some of us are less or more capable, less or more smart. The difficult times await us, perhaps the time when Croatia will have to seek the Government of National Unity regardless of whether it is left, right or center because the difficult economic situation, financial circumstances, the difficult lives of citizens have led to the success of those who seek and say that this Parliament and this manner of work of politicians and MPs, regardless of the party, did not deserve the trust of their people. Today we have defenders on Sava Street, tomorrow we can have students, the day after tomorrow we can have teachers, doctors, nurses, military, police, defense, justice, we can bring down our country as we created it ourselves. That is why it is now time for us to play political games not to delay procedures, talk, read but to act without spotting. Because the truth is that the fate of an economy and a better life in Croatia is not only whether a representative named Marko or Janko or Slavica or Dragica will be a parliamentary representative but our country has taken advantage of its chance in the EU. Are we really a European and democratic country in which it will be irrelevant whether the Prime Minister is right-wing or left-handed, whether he is left-handed or right-wing rather than whether he is a capable, responsible and conscious man to care for his people when he becomes prime minister or president that he is not only his own party but all the citizens of the Republic, regardless of who these citizens voted for. Then we're on the right track, then we have a better, happier and more capable country. Until then, we can just punch under the belt and say that someone is smarter or less smart than each other. And I don't think it's the fate of Croatia because of those who will replace us here tomorrow at these benches and those who are looking for their chance today in colleges, high schools, primary schools and who expect a better life from their parents and their families. If they are not given a chance by the Croatian Parliament and parliament, let Croatia be better, no one will give them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90079	Thank you. We have five replicas. First, the esteemed Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90080	Dear counterpart Salapic, you wondered why politicians, i.e. politics and the Parliament had more respect than they have today? And before that, you talked about promises. It is said that among honest people, promises are debts, and among politicians are promises only baits. That's why. And the Partocratic system is... and in the world. For example, the American elections, although the Republicans have beaten the Democrats in the election of future Senate chief, said they have no right to be such an opposition as they have been so far to incumbent President Obama, rather than to cooperate with Obama in order to be in the interest of the American people, American citizens. And we should understand those messages, not theirs, but ours, what we're saying here at the pay phone. The citizens had, they lost confidence in politics because we were originally said to create a country where they would live better, to create a country according to man and to create a state of equality. And the worst part is when people hear from the pay phone here, that's what you wanted in 1990, nobody wanted it in 1990, nobody wanted what we have today. No defender stood up with a rifle to defend the state as it is today, defended against the aggressors, but fought for democracy, and for a different redistribution of wealth rather than what was the slogan of the SDP, not just them, and it turned out they only got clicks and privileged.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90081	Time. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90082	Comrade Vuksic, there are many problems and dilemmas ahead of us. Here's something I'd personally like to mention, and I wouldn't want anyone to feel offended or hurt. Prime Minister Milanovic took the truth for granted with his government the country at a time when it was in a difficult economic state because the former government and its government have been struggling since the beginning with a severe crisis and recession. And sometimes it's better to admit in time that something isn't going, that the situation is difficult and that the question is if we don't find a consensus of all the responsible people in this country will we get better. Whoever guarantees us that any future government, whether it's right, will be more successful than this, and who guarantees us that someone is a more successful or better politician if someone only votes against someone in the election, regardless of the real reasons and arguments in which someone takes responsibility for the country. And what is to blame if this really happens, if something is planned as it was in Plan 21 and already after half the mandate, it is visible that none of this will be achieved in the light of the circumstances in which we have found ourselves, then it is fairer to be just a man and not a politician above all. When in another time we look for the culprits for reasons that are likely to be similar or the same then we always look back at the former that they were more incompetent, this present state which is very difficult we can't fix, and tomorrow where we're looking, where someone's going to look for another mandate for what they can't do. And then that's all the evil politics that leads this country to ruin. I hope that what we're saying today will have no reason to be vague and offensive, but the reasons for thinking whether we're honest when we want something to do together. There should be consensus, this is not now an opportunity to ask whether someone is left-handed or right-handed, or whether someone is independent or I don't know what, it doesn't matter anymore, it's important how tomorrow will be Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90083	Second replica, respected Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90084	Thank you. You have raised a lot of interesting questions coming out of the framework of the Electoral Law, but not from the overall issue of electoral legislation. I mentioned it earlier, so once again, I would like to put a total illogical situation where 2.4 million citizens, Croatian citizens, and they vote, and with the votes of a million of them, the absolute majority of them are formed in the Croatian Parliament. So there's some disproportionateity in some way that needs to be removed. It is actually a question I think in which it is quite legitimate to actually discuss in which way it is actually best to reflect the electoral will of the people and the composition of the Croatian Parliament. That's part of the problem. And the other part of the problem is the question of people, so content, not just formal belongings to a block but content. It's a question of how to actually offer people that the more they vote for other people, the specific name and last name, and the less they actually just choose to color red or blue. So, to recognize among those people who vote for whatever they are, to recognize those who really round up, who have confidence, who believe that they will really represent their interests in the Croatian Parliament and consequently in Croatian politics. In those with whom they will be able to communicate during those four years and those with whom they will somehow directly and indirectly respond. The preferred voting model, and there certainly is one of the models in which to apply it is actually all the question. And the other thing is actually the question of these coalitions that I also think should be regulated by this system, by election.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90085	Reply to the replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90086	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Djurovic, first in terms of pre-election coalitions. I think there should be two ways to think about whether it will be banned completely or whether the thresholds will be set. Someone mentioned it today in the debate, if the two parties are in the pre-election coalition, if three or more are the percentages, the thresholds that such coalitions can, should be realized, is that 3%, 5%, 8% or 10%. Because it's not fair that you have a coalition with two parties or ten parties, so you're looking for the same threshold. Or we'll ban them, so everyone in the election will be worth as much as possible individually as possible. Then after that, decide who wants to join the coalition. It's now some of the thesis ahead of us but I think in this first form of change we can be, we'll be satisfied if this works out so that MPs can be chosen by name and last name by preferential means of choice. I don't think we'll be able to change election units in view of the shortness of time, the problem that opens up some other issues here, the changes in many laws. And what I find scandalous is that we live in a country where the ministry institutions do not know how many voters have the right to vote in the Republic of Croatia. I think it's a scandal for a country that's responsible for its voters. So we need to look for different interpretations or for different politicians to interpret on their own mill what suits them. If today suits them that's 3 million or 2.5 it's 2.5, and tomorrow if it's another government and some other option then it's 4.5 million. It's still things we need to work out. We agree in one we have supported every reasonable proposal and every one of those clubs regardless of the color the proposal will give a better life... That's the fairest thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90087	Third replica, respected Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90088	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Salapic, three remarks short. So I believe you were wrong because in your presentation you said, I hope you don't think that politics is the most dirty activity. So, the perception of politics as a dirty activity and as a politician as people who are not ethical is one of the biggest problems facing Croatian society, but politics publicly uses activity, and politicians are people who work in the interests of citizens and voters, not in their own personal or party interest, and we should show it here when we are discussing in the Parliament. Secondly, and now you have reiterated, so in Croatia, voting lists are arranged, one of the successes of the Ministry of Administration headed by Minister Bauk, who finally introduced the ranks of voters and voters' registers. And third, your concept as president of a state that cannot be a representative of a single policy we have today. President Ivo Josipovic is the president of all Croatian citizens, the only candidate currently not only representing one policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90089	Replication response, dear Joseph Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90090	Dear Representative Jovanovic, I was talking about the dirtiest business in one translated meaning, and you were also scientific and you were Minister of Science, so I have some stake in that part of my life. Because you don't think it's unfair when one of our colleagues here is a parliamentary representative to either mayor or chief of staff gets hurt before someone comes to convict him? Is it fair that the media, the public, condemns people who find themselves in a variety of problems, perhaps neither guilty nor debtor, perhaps responsible, it should be determined by the court, and such people have been permanently banned from dealing with politics ever again in their lives. That part of my speech, I was thinking of the dirtiest job. You become an unfair person without doing anything. You get a hundred anonymouss in front of each election, there's a lot of UskoK, DORH, the State's Attorney's office, everyone knows everything and everything just so you can't be a leading man, any of your municipalities, your city, any county, either here in the Croatian Parliament. There was an unfair game in political circumstances. You can be the most capable minister, you can make the best move, and you can only be removed because someone doesn't like you politically for what I think is dirty.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90091	We continue with the replicas, the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90092	Thank you very much. Comrade Salapic, you were talking about representatives and MPs being representatives of the people, of course. What many may not know, and very often they forget that the parliamentary mandate is non-binding and that the representative or representative who has been elected or elected to the Croatian Parliament corresponds only to those who elected him, i.e. to the people, or to Croatian citizens and not to the bosses. As it is elsewhere in the EU, we have received thanks to the request of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament, one review. Not from all parliaments, however, but it is nice to see, so both in Austria and Belgium and in the Czech Republic and Denmark, I am talking about the preferential vote, in Estonia, Finland and here all the way to Sweden, Greece, Ireland, Luxembrug, Lithuania, are all parliaments in which they are elected, the Netherlands, in which MPs and MPs are elected, thanks to the preferential vote, or votes. And about the reputation of the Croatian Parliament you also said something again, it is our favorite topic. Of course, it must be fought absolutely by all political elites for the reputation of the Croatian Parliament because here, already in this presidential campaign we hear some of the votes of some candidates who say that they would, for example, disband the government and cannot disband the president of the Republic of Croatia, but the government can disband the Croatian Parliament, only because the Croatian Parliament, of course, chose. And in the end, as far as crimes are concerned, we have one research that is very important. So, the surveyed citizens who asked whether convicted representatives and other public officials should stop the mandate after the power of the verdict, absolutely all of them, from 96 to 98% of the surveyed and by age structure and by representation throughout Croatia, all believe that they should. So that's why we have to evaluate this, too, so we can't be run.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90093	Replication response, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90094	And there is, Mrs. Kosor, a lot of arguments when it comes to legal frameworks for and against. So, what to do with those people who find themselves in some lengthy court proceedings in trouble and that's possible. So, I'll repeat what I said, it's abnormal in the country where we live that the highest court has been silent about anyone for five years, I've mentioned... what is present with us, Mr. Head. Well, there are other people with their cases in the Constitutional Court for a few years, they haven't made a decision yet, no decision. While in some political issues, the Constitutional Court is advertised within a few days, only because it suits a political majority at that time. If that is the way we play law and justice, then we need to take other instruments into this Parliament where our legal tools will ensure the protection of fundamental constitutional rights for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's fairest. In that second part, we're talking election laws. It's all connected. One structural reform in every respect will contribute to what we are trying to do today. We've just taken the first step, the principles of a serious topic. Well, there are no fair electoral units, an honest way of choosing MPs if we don't change the territorial structure of Croatia, and it will be in parliament, I'm sure, when the public puts pressure on it. So why do we need a 551 unit of local self-government in a country that's on its knees financially? So who in their right mind can say that that's okay? Except for the one who keeps his chair. So the function of the chair is not more important than the future of Croatia. Maybe 99% of us here won't be parliamentary deputies anymore, so what then? Croatia will not fail with us or without us, there will be someone else, perhaps better than us, and perhaps worse. And we need to believe that we took the first step, which is that we will do good for Croatia. And about the experiences of the list and the way... the list I'm sure you'll one day write it down and publish it because you know best how political parties have appointed their candidates on election lists. It's life stories.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90095	And the last replica, the esteemed Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90096	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Salapic, here's the last thing you've said right now, I think many Croatian citizens will be very happy when the composition changes and many people sitting in the Assembly today will no longer be seen here because of everything that citizens live today. But the replica is teaching on your exposure. Yes, you've said quite nicely to the HDSSB club a lot of things in this bill support, but we strongly oppose one thing because it's not normal and you've pointed out that we are opposed to making such provisions that as long as any person has not used all the opportunities to prove their innocence, and that is also the Constitutional Court's decision so far, no one can make it impossible for such a person to exercise constitutional rights, and one of the constitutional rights is also running. It's not normal for us to have a situation, that we have a man who admitted on television that the killer, that he killed, we have and illegally became a crown-protected witness right in Mr. Glavas's trial, we have a Krunoslav Fehir who's working freely today, and he's going to have a right, and he confessed on TV that he's a murderer. And by virtue of the anti-legal decision of the DORH, he will have the right to run and consume all of his constitutional rights, and the person who has not yet fulfilled and consumed all of his opportunities to prove his innocence as Croatian General Mr. Glavas because the Constitutional Court will not take out of the drawer for the fifth year and say we accept your appeal or do not accept your appeal. Therefore, as a club, we will, yes, well pointed out to be harsh against that provision. No one can be privileged to someone else. The obvious injustice that has been done to one man cannot get our support.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90097	Reply Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90098	My colleague Buric, that's the part I was talking about about the dirt of Croatian politics. When you want to get rid of someone no matter how innocent you know a man is, you put him in jail. So in the neighbouring country, proven criminals who wave from the window today are free to talk about a great Serbia war that has endangered the interests of many of our defenders and those who protest today in Sava, but unfortunately those who are innocent, buried in graves throughout our country, our dear country. Then someone who has not been granted constitutional right to receive a decision in time on his appeal that he thinks is innocent in prison defending his country and his city, Mr. Glavas, has been waiting five years. So is it normal that a judge can't make a decision for five years, whether it's good or bad? The time will come for that dirty policy to be thrown out of this House. Next year, we will choose to fill the Constitutional Court and we will say what we think about it by knowing who was giving orders to some judges and courts, and even in the Constitutional Court at which time he is allowed to publish something, or not, assessing what political option is on the left or right. It is all the tragedy of Croatian politics and the Croatian state in the highest instances of its bodies. So is it normal for any citizen of this country to be banned from living his life normally and exercising all the rights of others, and many proven war criminals are walking freely with the Croatian and the Mass, threatening with the fingers of those children who have lost their parents who will wait for Christmas in a month, and they have no father or mother if someone innocent has killed them? And some five years in a fat chair with 20 thousand kuna wages can't read one item and make a decision. We have been silent about this, and now we will talk more and more about it because this country must be free from all kinds of earrings they were here in Parliament, they were in the Constitutional Court, they were in the Supreme Courts, in the police, in the army of all the parasites who threatened the interests of Croatian citizens. The constitution is one, one is right and every man has equal rights under the Constitution was he first or second.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90099	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDSS Club, the Honorable Representative, Milorad Pupovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90100	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. This should and should be one of the most important political solutions when it comes to the reconstruction of the political system or the legislative framework in the Republic of Croatia which should improve the electoral process and which, as most of the proposings here have said, should make citizens, that the people of the electoral people have more choices and that they can more decisively influence which candidates and which candidates appear here in the Croatian Parliament. And in that sense, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS supports it. So we support opening the process for introducing preferences as part of the electoral model when elections are held for the Croatian Parliament. We also support the thinking of those who feel that it is necessary to see what the threshold is, whether it is 10% or less than 10% when it comes to preferentiality. On the other hand, we also support the thinking that list holders do not necessarily have to be the first people to be as party as it is so far, but that, in accordance with the principle of preference, this applies to candidates or the potential will of voters who will be shown after the election. We also support the position of those clubs, which is seen from this sign that I have on my jacket, so we also support NGOs and representatives of clubs that feel it is necessary to increase the share of women in the parliamentary benches. And to increase that share in such a way that the law would lay down a quota whereby at least 40% of women would appear in this House as MPs and as representatives of the people. No matter what happens to us from the men's quota that comes forward, some of us here do not guarantee that the Parliament will be well promoted. In the direction of a delibertative, free and trained debate such as this House should be held as it may be heard sometime this morning at the beginning of this debate. Contrary to what we would like, what took about an hour and the debate was about -0.00 quality. As regards the third item on which there have now been certain replicas of the inability to run for persons convicted of serious criminal offences. I think this as a preventive measure in our legislation should be stated. And I also think that although I have many reasons not to show this second part of my opinion and I think it is necessary to be careful how it will be done so as not to violate the Constitution and so that the basic measures that people have the right to do as those who have been convicted or those who have endured the punishment not to be deprived of the basic and elementary freedoms that they have as free citizens. Of course, there is a way to find a way to do that. The same applies, of course, to the incompatibility of the conduct of the parliamentary representative and the municipal chief. It seems like it's a good solution, but I wouldn't fly in that direction. I wouldn't fly because we ran into a direct or direct election of mayors, mayors and mayors. Did we necessarily get a good solution? We didn't. We're fixing it now. I remember today as fellow Radina who warned in his debate that this must not be a happy solution and is not a happy solution when we adopted that law on the proposal of certain clubs at the time. At the same time, we should take care not to make an injustice with this. Cities and municipalities must not be punished for deciding to be a representative and representing cities and municipalities. And for this reason I know that some clubs, first of all HDZ, have, in some terms, banned their mayors or commissioners from being MPs even when they were elected, had to return their mandates and define themselves where they wanted to be. But I'd leave it to be a matter of party policies before I prescribe it by law. As regards the next important issue on which the most sublime reasons are found in the proposal of the Croatian Labour Labour Laburist Party, which is the issue of election units. So long before the issue of preferentiality, we have a problem with equality of citizens, which was, in fact, our constitutional obligation before the Constitutional Court adopted its opinion on it, especially after the Constitutional Court brought its opinion on the matter. Today, we have differences from an electoral unit of over 100,000 voters and the number of MPs elected in these constituencies is always the same 10. This, of course, violates the principle of equality of citizens. So even if we have a metropolision problem like some rightly warn here and we have a problem. And bad news doesn't tell some of our colleagues, well-intentioned, I'm sure we're representatives of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But go to my Dalmatia and ask if you'd like to hear from someone from Dalmatia. So he would, and even when he talks with the Dalmatian accent. Bea, they'd like it even more. And not necessarily me who already lost it and speak more or less standard or more or less under the influence of Zagreb's speech. So it's very important to avoid this principle. And in that sense, I think that if we want to make one full change and a fair change in accordance with our constitutional obligations, we must not push this issue of equality around electoral units. Otherwise, we will succumb to populist policies regardless of whether it was expressed in the accumulated votes in the referendum as a lady did with her company or whether it was in the polls by a gentleman regardless of what function. It doesn't work that way, it's populism. Politicians, of course, are allowed populistism, but they're not allowed to decide on the logic of populism. I can speak populistly but deciding populistly can't and can't otherwise we'll have trouble. For that reason, I think that this question is important and that we need to find the measure that we can right now. Some of the clubs have proposed some solutions, i.e. some of the promoters have proposed some solutions in this regard and should probably look for solutions of this type. I mean, first of all, the three representatives of Mrs. Kosor, Kregara and Flege and certain NGOs behind them. And finally, the issue of minority voting rights on which one part of the proposings expressed their opinion on which we agree as a club. Weaknesses should be removed so that voters of national minorities in the polling post are publicly violated by the principle of privacy, such as the fact that they need to be told in front of 5 or 10 or 15 people in the hall what are nationalities. And secondly, it is particularly important to remove a breach of the secrecy of the electoral procedure when it comes to the exercise of the rights of members of national minorities. That you must declare one part of the electoral right and show it to the electoral committee or to those behind you, that you will not vote for one but another option, it must be removed because it is contrary to the Constitution. And then if we want to stick to the Constitution, why don't we stick to Article 15(3)? A constitution that says that members of national minorities in addition to general voting rights should also have the right to choose their own representatives and, in particular, the electoral right. In this respect, it is the proposal of the IDS Club and the Radina Representatives that we support, with the need to consider whether this should apply to all minorities or only to those relating to up to 1.5% in order to maintain a balance in relations between political parties, primarily parties at the right centre and parties at the left centre. So that's what we understand well and what we think is necessary to support when it comes to this change. But there's something I'd like to say in general about the expectations of these changes. This has created expectations that all the problem of Croatian politics is that there are party leaders who do not allow people who are more capable than them or who are more capable than those they consider capable of. It certainly is a problem in part of the political parties. If not all, then the good part and always has been and always will be, but that's why parties and their leaders pay the price in the elections. And the illusion that a car that drives on the reserve and the driver knows that it can't bring him home, that one car that instead of four cylinders will work with 2 cylinders and that with that kind of driving, it will be able to take 5 passengers in the car instead of itself, let alone drive the whole people, so that instead of changing the car or at least making a general engine audit and providing gas resources by changing the new driver, it's a pure illusion, and some are pushing it on the principle of preference. Some consider this a rescue and sufficient solution to the problem of Croatian politics, and they will not say that it can also be one of the deceptions for the people, such as many. How many of these 25 years have they called upon the people and said they were serving the people? So we see what the people have fallen on. This should also be done with caution to those who today offer rescue solutions to the crisis of Croatian politics and the crisis of Croatian political parties, as the crisis of Croatian political parties is and is a crisis of politics but not just in the way of choosing. The crisis is that in our policy, there is more or less one kind of one-mindedness, not more of the former system than the one that comes down, or you choose nationalism, or you choose some kind of liberalism, and there is no freedom and good of either one. We've experienced it, but the parties haven't experienced it. The parties continue to ride on that, either nationalism or possibly a consistent neoliberal concept. And is that bringing freedom to the citizens? No, I don't. No, I don't. It feeds the media when we don't. It matches either those behind the bank's counters or those on the boards of banks, or those who care about our souls, so they think they're more capable of doing it than we are. For this reason, it seems important that we start to think about what is missing from our policy. Our policy is not just missing new people, our policy is missing new ideas. Unfortunately, that's the way it is from day to day and more and more. I'm wearing this badge, and if I'm wearing a mining badge, I'm not wearing one. There's no one to give it to me. Do I wear a boat builder's badge? I'm not wearing it because there's no one left to give. Do I wear a new IT technology badge, I don't wear it, because it's still thin and too thin when it comes to our economy and our industrial potential. Why aren't we dealing with this issue? Here in the Parliament we are going more and more towards some kind of suspension of parties, and raising some kind of political corporation we have represented minorities, we have represented pensioners, we're going to have women represented, and when it comes to regions, when it comes to social groups who represent them? I have to say it. I represent the minority for the fourth term. But it's fair to say this House with the exception of one part of the political parties representing the working class if we have one, who's speaking for them. And quite ultimately the preference that, but not as a deception as some people have been selling for several months in public Croatian political life, public political space. Preferentiality that won't take care of equality, preferences that won't take care of equality is dangerous for political life. Either it will be a means of manipulating parties or it will be a means of manipulating individuals at times of crisis in political life. And this House needs to discuss this matter, and then it has to be decided. Those who open the door to populist grades, and sit at the top of the country's most important political institutions, must be aware that they are destroying those institutions. The parties are institutions. If they need to change their ideas, if they need to change their programs, if they need to be provided with competition, then they need to work on it. But to destroy it and not know who will answer to whom, they will call for an abstract story to answer to the people of that colleague and colleagues with all my skepticism based on my own experience here in political life according to someone who said on the Committee on the Fundamental Values of the Croatian Constitution, which is multilateral. Despite all my skepticism, this other one is causing me not to be skeptical, but rather to be apprehensive. And for this reason, I suggest we agree on these solutions, but at the same time I suggest we sit down and talk about what the real problems are, where and why politics in Croatia has lost power and why that power has moved to what they are called since the lines of our media. Why did she move to the boards of banks and leading companies and why this Parliament serves as a joke to the people, not to represent the people. And how responsible we are in that thing, and how many others produce it as a continuous policy. It's an important question for which we not only because of ourselves and the wages we receive here, but because of the people, we have to say it. So if we say that we cannot be the representative body of the people, then let's say that to the people, and let's not play parliamentaryism, and let's not let this Parliament be made fun of by those who are the last to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90101	Thank you. We have reports of replicas. But now that it's 13.39, we'll hear it at 3:00. I'm announcing a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90102	We're continuing the debate. Walter Boluncic, replica. You have the right to a replica, if you don't want... Okay. Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90103	Okay, it's a little stupid, but I was actually going to say, so I'm just gonna say one sentence, I really think it's time that... Yeah, he's here. So, fellow Pupovac, you were talking about the political crisis. I think that's exactly the central thing that we here in parliament should normally be dealing with, and I think it's taken a moment that's already alarming in one part. I am thinking about trying to suspend the functioning of a normal institution, democratic institutions that guarantee the functioning of political pluralism in Croatia. It also seems to me that the Parliament as the Supreme Legislative Body is in a certain way at stake when informal segments of society have tried, try and reduce at this point, so I say once again, and suspend the importance of this Parliament and its role. But not only parliament, but at the time when the streets of Vukovar were not free to move, the president of the Croatian government and the president of the Croatian Parliament, or parliament, proved to be in an irresponsible way threatening democracy in Croatia. I think that the discussion of this law and these laws, these proposals must certainly be touched by this situation and that we should be at work together.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90104	Thank you. Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90105	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Your replica of my colleague Jurovic is something that inspires me to think further and to answer what I was talking about and about what you were talking about. So, yes, it is because we are dealing with a serious and deep crisis of political institutions such as parties, such as parliamentaryism and other important segments. There is more reason for this, and we in this House should discuss this matter seriously. What to say is that preferences advocates point to the problem, but it is nowhere near the solution that needs to be found in order to address this, a difficult issue of crisis. It could be a scam. And as for your final part of the replica, about the destruction of the institutions of the state at the most diverse moments for the state, which means at times when on the issues of joint memorial for victims, for the victims, for the people who have given their lives in the war, if it is used as a means for the destruction of political institutions, non-recognition of the institutions of the President of the Republic, of the Parliament, of the Government, then it is a very serious, very risky, very dangerous means of political action that those who do so will safely be robbed of their heads. But as easily as they're being robbed, they're being robbed into the overall functioning of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90106	Thanks, buddy. Thank you. A fellow Boluncic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90107	I'm particularly glad, here, that you support the IDS proposal on additional voting rights for minorities. In line with this and a certain potential problem, what you said, as we said in the debate, we believe that we should... get to this law, we are prepared to accept any proposal that can help, so part of it, and I hope that these two readings will find some common contribution on this issue. What I'm sorry is that there may be some problem with voters being declared by nationality. I come from Istria, and there's really no problem there, no language or nationality, only thing I'd like for all of Croatia to be like us, and I hope it will be. Here, so I invite you, between these two readings, such as the Parliament's agreement, to make your constructive proposals on this additional vote for minorities. I'm sure they'll be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90108	Milorad Pupovac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90109	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As far as your proposal is concerned, we will, of course, support it because it is in line with the direct and literal letter of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Article 15. And it's a shame that 14 years ago we weren't smart enough so we solved that thing then, but we obstructed the solution to that thing, I'm not talking about your club, although there was a broad obstruction that came in this respect and a broad misunderstanding. For indeed the Constitution is very clear in this respect. What we alone from the Independent Democratic Serb Party club to respect the political balance in relations between political parties on the left and right spectrum think it is necessary to avoid and that the additional vote is not a means in which the balance will be violated. And that is why we think that when it comes to minorities up to 1.5% that this right should be consummated and when it comes to minorities outside 1.5% that a different solution should be found either in accordance with the Constitutional Court's recommendations or in some other way creative and that this should be a solution sought. What's most important is to remove the underlying difficulties and that's the issue of privacy violations and the issue of non-disclosure without the basic model being compromised, a model that's been functioning for so many years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90110	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90111	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to welcome, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats club, the efforts made by five legislators in the direction of amending the law governing the way MPs are elected in the Croatian Parliament. It should be pointed out that this is actually one attempt to correct or modify certain elements in our electoral legislation through targeted changes, and that this certainly does not constitute an overall approach that should be used as soon as possible in the reform of electoral legislation in the Republic of Croatia. It is when we talk about how representatives are elected to the Croatian Assembly that the existing system has been functioning since 1999, and in these 15 years, it has shown what are the advantages and what are the shortcomings of this system and there are both. There is no doubt that it is a electoral system that has contributed to the stabilisation of the political system and life in general, which has contributed to the stability of the Croatian Parliament then also means the government that has been elected or appointed in this Viskom House. It is certainly also a fact that many political institutions face a crisis. Among them, of course, parliament and government primarily in relation to citizens, according to the level of trust that voters or citizens show towards these political institutions. And the Corps certainly includes the level of trust citizens have towards political parties. Of course, all of this is conditioned and difficult by general, social, economic circumstances and that the social picture of society also has an important impact on the attitudes of the political system and its functionality and its institutions but also leads to one danger of actually increasing tones and rhetoric that neglects facts sometimes paying attention to the more important thing. And the fact is that there is no stable parliamentary democracy and democracy at all without stable institutions, without institutions that will respect the demarcation that the system has introduced among them, autonomy, independence and, on the other hand, demand and achieve an increasing level of its own functionality. I especially point out one here already mentions a case of speech, a very uncritical speech about the position and role of political parties in political life and the political system although they are as an institution defined throughout the system and mentioned in the Constitution. It would be dangerous, it would be naive if not something worse than believing that there is a possibility of a parliamentary democracy without political parties. But the team is more stringent, it is necessary to say that political parties are obliged to do everything possible to apply their own democratisation and their internal changes that will lead above all to best lead and best define policies, to lead open communication with the public and that policy is implemented transparently and particularly financing. As far as the Croatian People's Party is concerned, we welcome the efforts that have led to the fact that we can already recognise that in this set of five proposals coming from five different proposings, there are common values and common solutions on which the promoters agree. However, this should also be said and made clear to the public that any fetishisation of some new elements in the electoral system is not good and that it can only lead to false understanding, and in this sense, it is necessary to recognise and acknowledge that the vast majority of citizens of the moment think that the introduction of preferential voting into our electoral system is necessary, that a large majority of citizens believe that through this institute they will have a more direct impact on the election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, that this will have an indirect impact on the quality of work in the Croatian Parliament and, of course, raising the level of responsibility of MPs according to their own tasks established by the Constitution and laws. However, it should also be aware that this change in the way of the elections, i.e. allowing the voter with a commitment to a particular political party, i.e. the lists of candidates who propose political parties and citizens, can also use his voice to rely on a concrete name, underlining his own personal trust with the person who is running on those lists, will not lead to revolutionary changes. In fact, practice in some European parliaments shows this in parliaments chosen in several election cycles according to the model that the number of those who entered parliament by preferential vote is relatively low. This, of course, can also be done by changing the practices of the political parties themselves who have adapted their staff policy and communicating with voters in a way that can run for the lists themselves, which they also know are from a higher level of reputation, that voters are easier to recognise and that they can meet voters' expectations by their own qualities. So it happens that many of those who, according to the preferred number of votes and enter Parliament would actually enter the list. There is no doubt, therefore, that the debate that lasts in Croatian society has already been intensely for 5 months on how to innovate the electoral system was found common in one point, which is the introduction of a preferential vote. It is an experienced model in the previous two rounds of elections for the European Parliament, but it is courageous to believe that this will contribute more significantly to the turnout of the voters themselves, because after the first experience of the European Parliament's MPs who can be led under a lower level of interest because the average voter was not so familiar with the powers of the European Parliament itself, nor with the essential elements that define the influence of the European Parliament on our lives. Already in the second elections for the European Parliament held in May this year, more citizens could be expected to respond to the elections. This has not changed significantly, and the level of turnout is actually low, among the lowest in the European Union. However, those who went to the elections, a large, large majority of them, about 80% used the Institute of Preferred Voice, and that is a good sign that the citizens recognized what he was serving and that they used it well. Therefore, it should also be possible for the same institute to be offered again to citizens in the elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament. He's, of course, academic, everyone has to know that because he's not required. So any voter can choose between the possibility of making a list or a list or a specific candidate with its own vote. We hope and firmly believe in several contributions to a higher level of response to elections, a different attitude of citizens or voters towards the Institute of Elections, and will also invite them in their own way to participate in the election process in a larger number, but also more actively, so that they actually use their preferential voice. I think that this debate, which has been being conducted for 5 months in public, has also shown that the electoral system in the Republic of Croatia needs to be approached with serious intentions that many of the doubts or bad solutions that have been observed are being corrected in the future. And it wouldn't be bad, whoever makes the ruling majority in this house in the next term, to take on the task of actually building a new, unique electoral code for all levels in one legal text. As for the CNS, Liberal Democrats, I would like to say here that as a party we are committed to the solutions offered and we welcome in the first reading, therefore, the proposal to introduce a preferential vote institute, that each voter has one preferential vote, that a 10% threshold is preserved, as well as European elections, so that preferential votes can be used for any changes to the order on the list. We also welcome the proposal to abolish the list-holder institute and, of course, according to the liberal policy, we have long welcomed the proposals to introduce quotas that will contribute to reducing the situation so far, to express the sub-representation of any gender. We are also open to the proposal to prevent the running of legally convicted persons for specific crimes until the expiry of the rehabilitation period and also to welcome our values the proposal that the principle already defined by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which is the possibility of applying the additional voting rights, is also defined as the right that can be consumed in the elections for the Croatian Parliament. We also call on all applicants to seek another reading in a constructive debate to define common starting points in the reform of the electoral system and call for efforts to come to another reading with one single proposal to achieve as high a level of political consensus as possible. This, of course, applies to colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community, regardless of which they have already declared their participation in this process and support for these proposals, in fact, by amending the Constitution. According to our court, since the amendments to the Constitution have been on the table since the end of last year, and there was no political will to bring them to the end of the assessment that it will be very difficult at all to open as a topic. However, we think it is time for all of us to take seriously the importance of bringing innovation into the electoral system, allowing citizens to use their rights more intensively and directly by consummating the right to a preferential vote, and to open up some other elements that will devoid of electoral legislation and directly or indirectly enable an increase in the level of trust of Croatian citizens in politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90112	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90113	Dear colleague Beus-Richembergh agrees with you because I have not spoken in replicas or in the club's name, and I support the additional right to vote for minorities, and I will raise my hand for it, I mean the whole club. I don't know why I don't mind the list holders telling you honestly, I don't mind. I don't think that's even important right now. I don't think they're using too much, but they don't bother me too much and they don't raise that question as one of the important questions. You've said a lot in your presentation on the role of political parties in political life. It is absolutely certain that the parties are irreplaceable at this time and that political life without parties is unimaginable. And you don't need to be afraid that at this point, at least in our time, there will be no need for political parties because the other parties need a system that is controlled with multiple levels and it is well placed, so there is no need to be afraid. You wondered if only a preferential vote would force more voters to vote. Sami, you have well seen the European Parliament elections have shown that they will not. But I don't think that's why I'm opposed to the 10% limit, and I think it needs to be abolished and that it should be allowed to put voters in line on the list of MPs for the Parliament on their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90114	Thank you. Goran Beus Richembergh, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90115	As far as the additional voting rights are concerned, you know that this principle has been defined by the Constitutional Law and that the Republic of Croatia has used this principle in the 1990s as an active norm in its electoral legislation and that, therefore, we have allowed citizens of all nationalities to choose their ethnic representatives of the majority, all common and minority minorities. The institute was abolished after a single election cycle. We don't see any reason for that, but we see the possibility of practically giving all minority groups this university right. So much college because if that right of the supplemental vote is introduced, it won't be mandatory for anyone. So, always a citizen who is not a majority national will be able to define whether he will just vote in the majority or in one and the other constituency. It is therefore not to be feared, but it can give some tools indirectly or at least guarantee that it is a process of democratisation of society that no one should be afraid of. As for the role of political parties, it will not be safe for long to stop the need for them. But I am concerned about the data coming from a public opinion survey where young people when asked about political parties plead, their contribution almost exclusively because they believe that membership in political parties will personally benefit them in their private lives, which is terrible and bad news, and I would like it to change. Because that fact, too, proves that we are very, very late in the introduction of civic education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90116	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers – party of work of colleague Nancy Tyreli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90117	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here are five proposals for amendments to the Law on selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Five proposals with three, so to speak, the electoral model, since I think the most effort will be needed to put into that part of the discussion where it will be discussed exactly the preferred way and the number of preferential voting. So what are the reasons why we're going to change these laws? Is that an unequal value of the voter vote? The principle of just representation violated? An enormously large number of broken voices? Incompatibility of duty? Obstruction of running for persons convicted of criminal acts? The introduction of a preferential vote or an association initiative to collect signatures for a referendum? I am free to say all this together because all the problems identified and the changes and additions that we have here before us in these five draft laws contribute to strengthening democratic decision-making processes. I must also point out that two amendments and additions to the Electoral Law came before any initiative to sign the referendum and it goes to the mill to say those and such thinking that the electoral laws must be changed and passed here in this House of Commons. In addition to all these amendments that stand in the bill's proposals, the most attention and interest can say that voters, and thus politicians, have occupied the preferential vote and the ability of voters to decide more on who will sit here in the Assembly and defend their interests as here the media like to convey it in a different, better and better way. The question is what these five draft laws really bring and what their proposings want. So, if we want citizens to decide a little about who will sit here in the Parliament and defend their interests, then we will be able to make it possible to propose laws that suggest a single preferential vote, a 10% census by which voters in their constituency would choose that one of their favorites and he will sit in the Assembly if he crosses a 10% high threshold of the total vote for that list. Everything else remains to say the same. If we want the citizens to decide a little more then we have a bill which would have been appreciated if the candidate crossed the 5% vote of all voters who voted in favour of the list but the voters on the list could round up the three names of politicians who deserve their trust. So, with these four draft laws, political leaders still have the power to create a list and order of candidates who and where they will be in which place. However, if we want citizens to decide more, I cannot say 100% because the political lists are still being created by political parties, and I would not dare say that they are political leaders because there are parties where the lists are determined in a more democratic way and where the lists are still discussed and decided. If we want citizens, or voters, to have such a greater power, so to speak, to decide who will be sitting in the parliamentary benches, then the proposal for a law without censorship with three preferential votes is certainly the best because then only citizens create a composition. And that law is not only good because it gives voters the greatest power to create the Assembly but also because in that case the number of women in the Parliament will be greater. And I'm gonna use the rest of my exposure to try and explain my own thesis. The proposal for a mandatory quota of 40% of the sub-represented sex, I will talk about women because women are those who are sub-represented sex in the Republic of Croatia, is more than welcome especially because by adopting the Law on Gender Equality in 2008 we said that we want equality we have given ourselves an additional time of 9 and 11 years, respectively, that this quota of 40% of the sub-represented sex and we respect it. And this should be applied for the first time under the current Gender Equality Act in 2007 in the third election cycle of local elections, i.e. 2009 on the third cycle of parliamentary elections. So this proposal is more than I support but it opens up a new question, and the fundamental question is whether we are really contributing to women being more than 26% of us now in the Parliament. In 25 countries so far, it is a 40% quota obligation with large financial sanctions unless it is respected and with the obligation that lists that do not have a 40% quota are not accepted as candidate lists at all. And this proposal also contributes to the fact that parties that do not have quotas cannot submit their lists. However, this will cause an additional problem because we had parties that really do not have 40% of the sub-represented sex and at this point we can talk about women's parties who really do not have 40% of male members, or men in their parties, and we can also talk about political parties that do not have 40% of the members in their political parties at all. And in this way, we simply exclude the political parties from any race that they can run in parliamentary elections. So we have a list of 14 candidates and respecting such a proposal from the mandatory 40% quota on the lists that means that there must be at least 6 women on each list. But if we do not determine the order of these women we have not made, I would say no move and we are not sure that the woman in Parliament will indeed be more because of such legislation. So we have a list of 14 candidates with 6 women, let's say one preferential vote and a 10% census. The voter goes to the polls, rounding up one preferential vote, that preferential vote must go 10%, suppose it is a woman, so one woman enters the Parliament, but according to our statistics, I'm afraid that woman will be in a minority. The rest stays the same. So, they're still entering the Parliament, those candidates, depending on the order in the lists. The practice teaches us that women have always been in most cases on the lower side of that list and therefore the original composition of this Parliament had 19% of women when we came to the Parliament. The second model, which is 3 preferred votes and 5% census, in any case, I think it gives women one better option already by the fact that women who have 52% in Croatia and assuming that they go to the elections more women than men and women who go to the elections do, indeed, among those 3 preferred votes, most of their preferred votes, which are at least 2, give women the likelihood that women in the Parliament will be more and more. The third bill of law that you have here today in front of you, which is the 3 preferential votes without censors, surely guarantees that the percentage of women in Parliament will be the largest. We have a large number of NGOs dealing with the issue of equality and women's rights and imagine the situation that indeed within a year of parliamentary elections such a good and quality campaign will be made by NGOs who will invite a large number of women to the next parliamentary elections in which these women will have the opportunity to give their preferred vote to a woman and that woman who received the preferential vote has no censorship to enter Parliament. So that's definitely when we look at the best math like this and the best guarantee that a woman in that case in Parliament will be more. If we leave the census one preferential vote, we need to seriously think about the so-called "Census of 10%". Zip to the model or to place on the lists in a way that each other should be the opposite sex regardless of who comes first, whether it's a woman, whether it's a man. Otherwise, such a proposal, which I support and which is good, is only because we are reducing the deadline if such a law is accepted to make a 40% censorship mandatory by next year, without having to wait 2019 for parliamentary elections. Finally, these laws definitely require an extremely constructive and broad dialogue and debate and certainly necessary political consensus. Unless we do so, and if we can't agree on what's good and what's not, I think we're going to do the most damage to ourselves because once again we're going to show that what we're saying doesn't really matter, but that often we say what someone likes to hear and it's not good. If we want preferential votes, if we really want to give voters a greater democratic right, if we want voters to decide who will represent them in the Croatian Parliament, then we must agree on the preferential votes, we must agree on all the other proposals that we have heard today and that I personally support but at any moment we must make sure that the consensus, if we achieve it, is indeed for the benefit of all and that we bear in mind that the laws are being passed with the fact that we are all satisfied and that Parliament gets a little more credibility in the eyes of citizens than it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90118	Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90119	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Tyrelli, I think that we can agree on when, here you have welcomed this proposal, so the initial proposal as one basis for discussion, and I expect, of course, to be another reading and a well-balanced proposal on the achievement of the sex quota, so I am primarily now talking about the Law on Gender Equality and that, definitely... with a proposal of 40 percent of women's representation, we will contribute to a larger number of women in parliaments, but I agree with all those who think that this is not a predetermined story and that if we don't finish this story by the end, until the second reading, then it's true, we will have a situation that some of the parties, I don't know, independent lists, etc., the sub-represent sex, any men, will be put in those last places on the lists, and then will practically have no opportunities, equal chances of being elected. I believe that... the system is the best way, the fastest and most honest way to talk about meeting the sex quota, so equal, equal representation of both men and women, by making preferential voting, not government organisations dealing with this problem explicitly against the preferential vote because preferential voting does not contribute to increasing women in bodies, or in this case the Parliament. I personally advocate a preferential vote, but therefore, the effects of it... with... a system, and as to whether or not individual parties have or do not have a member anywhere forbids that both men and women who are not members of individual parties are placed on the lists, and I think the problem is completely solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90120	Nancy Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90121	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Sobol, so let's get along. I have to point out once again that the practice has unfortunately convinced us that sometimes we have a good intention, but if we don't communicate it and we don't solve it until the end, there's a situation that we have a good intention, or a realisation and what we've put into law, we're putting ourselves a fence of 3 electoral cycles, which means 11 years, so we're giving ourselves 11 years to even think about whether we want equality or not. As for women's organisations who are against preferential votes or votes, I would only order one thing. I really don't see any place in the fear of these women's organisations that this preferential voice in any way will harm women because if we are so confident that women deserve to be on the list, which are women in history and have shown that they deserve it, a large number of them, then I think that a woman in the same way as a man deserves a preferred voice and what I said and in my presentation, I don't see that women's organisations have anything to do for a year to do and make such a good campaign to say, let's now use that preferential voice to the end, let's use these preferred voices whether it was one or three preferential voices, depending on the agreement, indeed we give women who deserve to get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90122	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90123	My colleague, you've already mentioned several times, I don't think that's very aware of what you're trying to say, the women who deserve to be. So, you don't say men who deserve to be, that's what we often have, everywhere and in political parties, that women, if they're quality, are not discussed in men. I think we should intend to have such a conversation, especially be very precise and careful when we talk about not getting any other conclusions than we actually wanted to say. That's what you're saying, and you said in your speech several times that you were afraid. You say literally, I'm afraid that women will not be elected even if we reach this quota 40% of the sub-represented sex on each election list. What does that mean? Your fear that they shouldn't even be put on the list because they might not be selected anyway. By the way, did you ever hear of a policy that must be a component of every policy, not just the left-hand options, but all the options? Equal chances for everyone. So that's that democratic minimum we all have to live and enjoy. Furthermore, you're saying exactly about something that your colleague Sobol has already replicated to you, which is that some parties don't have that much membership, whether some parties have more women, some have significantly less. Well, it's not about inside the party elections, it's about elections to vote in parliament, so we're talking to citizens, it's about citizens who are going to choose, and the voter has 51%. So I ask the question, and what are the parties, although under the Constitution, is membership of political parties voluntarily, which is, as they refer to women, in the end, when there are few in their parties, and it can very much be fixed precisely because there are fewer, as an excuse that on the list of offers exactly...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90124	Thank you very much. Thank you, colleague. Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli. Turn off the microphone, Ingrid.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90125	Here's a thank you. So whether someone is going to enter a political party or not, whether it's a woman or a man, it's up to him. How many party members or members do not decide but decide which party wants to be on that page. When I say I'm scared, I'm afraid for a reason because we've already had lists that had more than 40% or 40% of the sub-represented sex, and women on those lists haven't been selected, and that's why I'm afraid. On the other hand, we have political parties that have an obligation in their statutes to have a 40% sub-represented gender quota on the lists, and their own parties do not adhere to their statutes and do not adhere to their statutes. So these are the things that scare me, and that's why I have the right to say that I'm afraid because if we put something in the party's statutes, and we ourselves don't adhere to what we've given ourselves as an obligation, then we've shown that we really don't really care that we do it as much as we ask for it and as much as we fight for being equal and that we want women to be more involved in politics. These are the reasons for my fears and these are the reasons for my fears and I have the right to them because unfortunately practice and everything that happens taught me and convinced me that it's not always what we write and that it's not always what we do because when we come to the realization of what we've given ourselves we fall for the exam. That's why the bill to be legal regulation is 40% and that lists that don't have 40% and don't even accept it, I said several times I accept good is because we're reducing that waiting limit until when we have to respect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90126	Thank you. Vanya Posavac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90127	I thank the esteemed president. My colleague Nancy, I'm not going to repeat myself because my colleague Sobol and colleague Ingrid have already said a lot, and in fact, in your debate, I get with a lot of what you said I agree. But I still have to say one part of the debate that you've brought out, and I'd like to ask you about it. Namely, what are the arguments that you claim to be women, especially when talking about three preferential votes, will receive the most preferential votes? Now there has already been an example of two candidates who have entered the European Parliament they are actually talking only about the patriarchal Republic that is, so you are talking but you have not told me the arguments. What my colleagues said I'm going to point out once more by parties who don't have 40% of women that were supposed to be done because I guess it's in their interest to have women like they have young ones because it's known how many women can withdraw from the party. What's most important about all these election laws is that zip model. We can talk 40% of women, but if the list isn't evenly represented, then we're talking for nothing. Also when you said that the choice of candidates and candidates in some political parties is democratic but you must keep in mind that it is always someone who proposes, and we all have to start from that base of the city committees, the county's whatever their name is, because they are also the ones who propose and then they will only be democratically decided, so the president will eventually make a decision. Until we can solve that part honestly, we'll always have one problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90128	Nancy Tyrell's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90129	Here's my colleague, I'm not Nancy, I'm Nancy, so I'm asking you to remember that. As for my thesis on three preferential votes and the possibility that women will receive more votes in this way if you go to the polls and have the possibility of three preferential votes as your wife if you want your wife to represent you in Parliament, which does not prevent you from giving all your three preferential votes to women who are on the list? Nothing. And if there is no census, then we leave it to everyone to choose and to circle or to give their preferred voice to anyone. I only say one thing all the time, if we want to, if I have the opportunity to choose three names only on me as a voter at the moment I have an election list in front of me is to round up who I'm going to give my trust to. Whether it's going to be a man, whether it's going to be a woman, less importantly, I think that as a voter, I need to decide who's the best for me, who I trust most, and that's exactly how I'm going to decide. Another thing that, I just hope you know very well that you know him and I repeat one thing again, if we have made a commitment let's do that commitment and do it. And I agree, I think we all agree when we say that zip model in this case would be the best solution if we want to respect that 40% quota provided that this quota guarantees a larger number of MPs in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90130	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90131	Don't be angry with your colleague, Mlakar, but on behalf of the promoter, I have to react to some of the things that have been said so far, and that may help you understand some things. Incompatibility of the capacity of municipal chief and mayor's representative. Some are for, some are against, some don't understand why. We have one problem first. Why were the mayors prevented from being parliamentary representatives? They've been regional officials since 2001 before I said third, 2001. So either it's going to be made possible or it's incompatible, that's the principle. And secondly, what is with the principle after the introduction of a direct election that no one can at the same time be executive authority and a member of the representative body. Second, the bearers of the list as a big step. When you have a preferential vote, list holders can't exist. Can't be a list holder if it's a preferential vote. He can't. ... These are the bearers of the list of fellow Mlakar. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No carriers. Those who hand over the list to the DIP are the bearers, not the bearers. Third, positive discrimination measures in the desire to achieve certain representations, this time sexually. Is the probability of reaching that goal greater with one, two, three preferential votes? The results of the European elections' preferential votes prove this year that women won 31% more preferential votes compared to the previous first European elections. They did. They did. Not a colleague, you only count those who crossed the threshold of their list because of a 5% prohibition. But look at all the 25 lists and voice numbers that women got. That is how an analysis of the decision of the electoral body is done, not just with two lists or three that win the mandates. So in order to reach that goal of equal representation by one of the criteria this time sexually, although then the issue and social representation are raised to understand each other, giving greater rights to voters with more preferential votes. That's what we come up with by the voter's will, not by coercion. Bigger response yes or no? Yes, this year for the European elections was more of a response than for the first European elections. He was bigger. Why? Because even part of the candidate had a greater interest in... the electoral body when there was one preferential vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When you go to three preferential votes, the interest of the animation candidates themselves is even greater. That's an extra value. And finally, I would like to remind you that in the public debate, the Law on a referendum that requires citizens to exercise the right to a referendum to collect signatures in the offices of the state administration. Two versions of the law predict, three, that political parties as well as a group of voters should collect a number of signatures so that the list can be submitted. Where will these signatures be collected, same in the offices of the state administration? So here we will have to give a clear provision on the validity of collecting places of signature for both these and for all elections and citizens and citizens' signatures equalise both in the electoral cycle and the referendum law. There must be no discrimination. If we recognize the signatures collected in the squares, fairs, streets and churches for the elections, then it must remain at the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90132	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90133	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The first objection we agreed on was how much I understood that every club had the right to speak for 20 minutes in view of a united discussion. Your time is not in line with that deal. No matter what it may take 20 minutes, but it would be correct if we all had the same time to talk. I owe another amendment which he missed in his announcement by the president of the parliament today, saying on the agenda for election legislation. He also spoke about the methodology of how we will address the issue of legislative proposals received but failed to say that HDZ has referred to the procedure of its proposal to make a decision to approach the amendments to the Constitution because the amendment to the Constitution is a preliminary issue or prerequisite in order to give our laws electoral as we see that electoral legislation should be amended. By the logic of things and by our understanding of these changes, the Constitution should be discussed before we discuss these electoral laws. And one crackdown if you let all the colleagues who appeared, thanks to the Croatian government we still don't know when we're going to have presidential elections, although the time is going on unsuspectingly, so it may not be correct for you to apply this way for our presidential candidate, Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, but we support you in your efforts to get her in view of the gender, they already feel an advantage over the upcoming elections. I can't hear you. You need to pick up. Pick up your word. What the President of the Parliament missed we will,... Because I have to get used to it or what? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you. [[/Intruder Zgrebec: Be my guest.]] My colleague has something to say, so I thought we'd let her go first. So election legislation as proposed in these 5 laws we see that only after and only if we change Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in a way that restores the possibility that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are also voters have the same right to choose in all elections as the Constitution has set before the 2010 change. If we do not want to equalise all voters in their exercise of electoral rights, then all these other changes are cosmetic and are not worth all-day debates on how we will regulate electoral legislation. Since our proposal is not yet included in the agenda, and this is the first reading of these laws, we believe that it is possible, although the proposals usually fall under the end of each session's agenda, that we may have opportunities to discuss our proposal for a change of constitution and then, accordingly, all the electoral laws that are ahead of us. What we are up to and I think it is necessary to say because of the Croatian public who has the opportunity to always listen to us in the afternoon and evening, say something else. Special public television has already been included in a pre-election campaign, which has not, of course, been announced for elections for the president of the Republic of Croatia. So it has been repeated in the Central Diaries a hundred times in the news that the HDZ alone is not for preferential voting and that the HDZ alone requires all parliamentary parties to remain the same. If that was the first time we would really believe that these journalists who follow Parliament's work don't understand what we're talking about, but since we've repeated 50 times at least so far, I'm going to take that freedom and say 51th time. HDZ agrees with the introduction of a preferential vote in Croatian legislation. The HDZ also introduced a preferential vote in the first European Parliament elections as a novelty in the election legislation of the Republic of Croatia. And we remain on the stand, but in all elections, there is a right to give a preferential vote. However, what we disagree with in these proposals is that no preferential vote can be put in elections for the Parliament, not in the local elections. None of those who have proposed amendments to the electoral legislation have proposed amendments to the Law on Local Elections, so that we also introduce the right to give a preferential vote there. That's the first complaint. Secondly, when it comes to preferential voting, what no proposal contains, and we believe that it is extremely important. There is no solution to the question that if there remains legislation as we have now and how the proposed amendments are proposed, the preferential vote remains as a possibility, but also the possibility of all political parties to the candidate who is elected to Parliament, and there will be another incompatible duty, to appoint him a deputy from the list that took part in those elections. In other words, the preferential vote unscheduled will now lead to the cases we had in the European Parliament elections, that the one who won the largest number of preferential votes on his list and the preferential votes will use someone else on his list to refer to Parliament, and then the preferential vote does not make any sense. A specific case occurred with the ORAH party, with counterpart Mirela Holy in advance, announcing before the elections that she would not go to the European Parliament, but won the preferential votes that gave her the post in the parliament. Such a law is now proposed that we also have for the Parliament and that the Croatian Parliament receive the preferential votes of MPs whose party will appoint deputies from the list and then those deputies will sit in parliament. And now something about criticism and what was so well done in the Croatian public, and it was about the preferential vote. The main message of the entire campaign was to select representatives by name and last name and none of you felt affected by such a request for a referendum. And as if everyone had forgotten that there were people sitting in this House who had come to Parliament for their name and last name, because of their professional career long term if you will and will not name but try to remember in all the councils of the previous, in 6 calls on the Croatian Parliament whether there were people who were suggesting the apparatus of their parties or people whose names were politically used to win seats in the Parliament. It is an insult to all those who once sat in the Assembly to promote certain electoral changes and I am surprised that all those who propose these changes today have easily forgotten who represented the Croatian voters in this parliament for 24 years. Unfortunately, we heard something else today that simply irritates the answer because many colleagues have said that we still have enough time to change electoral legislation. It's not the only Law on Local Elections that needs to be changed as well. The Election Register Act should also be amended. In the Law on Election Register, there is one unfortunate one, the easiest thing to say is a provision that imposes an obligation on all voters who do not live in the Republic of Croatia to register for each election in order to vote in the elections. This obligation exists only for those living outside the Republic of Croatia. All voters in the Republic of Croatia do not have the obligation, and the Constitution has never made a difference between voters who have the right to vote in elections in the Republic of Croatia. So if we accept our proposal to amend Article 45. The constitution then leaves room for us to change the Law on Local Elections and the Law on Election Registration, probably in some suggestions and the Law on Election Units and the question is where we end up. But it would be a work that we still have enough time for, it would be a work that would allow us to have a meaningful electoral system that has been talked about by all the current legislators of this election legislation. However, we have not heard that anyone has proposed a proposal to amend the Law on Election Units, that any of the proposings have suggested that we edit the entire system although we have plenty of time for it. And now something I really have to admit is fascinating. Everyone who spoke said we still had time. It seems to me if they counted well until February next year to amend electoral legislation. Why until February? Probably because someone calculated that it would be a year before the next elections for the Croatian Parliament. And those who said that as if under amnesia had forgotten that 15 days ago, not two months before the election for the President of the Republic, we had changed the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia. 15 days ago, none of the rulings bothered that two months before the elections, the election law changed. Not that it didn't bother you. You assured us that this is almost normal, that these are technical changes, that it is the most normal thing and that Croatian legislation does not know the prohibitions of such an approach. And that's right. There is no norm in Croatian legislation that would prevent you from changing the law seven days before the elections. But all of what we told you was that there was a democratic practice adopted by civilized countries, that in the year preceding the elections you did not change the electoral legislation at the time you did not mind. I wonder what today's special criterion is that we have more than a year to amend electoral legislation. Well, that doesn't matter to you at all. You've never been interested in it before, you're not interested in it, you don't need to worry about it in the future. With your majority and dictatorship in Parliament, you managed to change the electoral law two months ahead of the upcoming elections. It doesn't take you a year now either. It'll be enough for you two months again because you'll probably have some more ideas on how to save face in the upcoming elections. You tried to do everything you could to call elections for the President of the Republic as soon as possible. For those of us who follow this, it seems, among other things, that the official campaign is as short as possible, that the current president can make the best use of his position and present himself to Croatian voters, that most of the costs of his election promotion will not be counted on in the cost of election promotion but in his regular activity. And that's why we'll probably wait until the last minute, except for the counter-constitutional announcement already for now, we'll wait until the last minute to call the election. I'm afraid to think what might happen for the parliamentarys. Unfortunately for you, no combination like this will help you. Due to the upcoming elections for the President of the Republic of Croatia, I will tell you something else clean to be in your hand while you make a decision within the party on whether to answer the presidential elections. So far, we have had several elections for the president of the Republic of Croatia and each time he and the previous president took the oath on 18 February. February 18th was the deadline from which you count the deadline in which the elections must be carried out as the Constitution says. If we have already had an invitation to both democratic standards and established practice. Then this may be a good example of Dr. Ivo Josipovic and Stipe Mesic took an oath as elected presidents of the Republic on the same day because election maintenance deadlines were calculated according to the Constitution. It would be wise for you to stick to what is a regular practice this time too, so at least we don't have an objection to the date of the presidential election. The only cry remains to be welcomed when the Croatian government will finally announce the date on which the presidential elections will be held. In the end, I'll say it one more time because I think it's important, and it's often been misquoted. The Croatian Democratic Community is pushing for a full reorganisation of the electoral system to change with proposals that will improve the quality and democracy of the elections. It shall therefore request an amendment to Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to allow all voters to participate in the elections on equal terms. 2) We are in favour of such a system for preferential voting, provided that the issue of replacing those who win the mandates with preferential votes is resolved. We also advocate for a correspondence vote that will allow all or to the greatest extent to raise doubts about the regularity of the elections and allow them to participate in the electoral process. So we don't have to repeat that again or again, these are our positions to defend. If you accept to return citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia to the same voting rights as those in the Republic of Croatia, we will also offer amendments to these laws that we necessarily have to amend in order to have a coherent electoral system. And that means the Law on Local Elections, that means the Law on Election Registration, and that means the Law on Election Units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90134	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90135	Thank you. I fully agree with you about the presidential elections and what is going on around the presidential elections because we are witnessing that President Josipovic has been in the full presidential campaign for the past month and a half, at the expense of taxpayers. Therefore, it would be much fairer if the date of these elections were to be announced as soon as possible, without all candidates being placed on the same level and not that one candidate could, at the expense of taxpayers and using the role he has to be fully committed and at the expense of those taxpayers, carry out the pre-election campaign. That's one thing. When it comes to this equilibrist that you have about these draft electoral laws, I do not agree with you at all, and I think that in these attempts to conduct maneuvers on the amendment of electoral legislation in parliamentary elections, regardless of the size and strength of your party, you will remain quite lonely. And that you do not listen and that you do not respond in the right way to those needs and those calls that Croatian citizens and Croatian society make towards the Croatian Parliament in seeking amendments to electoral legislation. Yes, Croatian citizens are looking for other and different people in a different way, and I'm sorry it turns out, but it turns out that you are the only ones who do not recognize this search for Croatian citizens in any way. You have political power, you have size, you may actually succeed in that, but I think you will be lonely in Croatian politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90136	Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90137	Comrade Djurovic, thank you at least for that part if I understand where you agree with me. Thank you for this warning, too. We do not have any crystal ball in which we are looking at what might happen but we have our clearly stated position and we are not prone to modernism, so that because we have noticed in the Croatian public that preferential voting is something that has become a mantra for everyone to board the same train so that we do not agree with any general opinion. But I repeat to you HDZ has introduced a preferential vote in Croatian legislation and continues to advocate this principle, but not for the principle that will deceive voters but which will be precise and clear that we know that those who have entered Parliament or the City Council what we would like to see, and that in no proposal there is, that they are then representatives who have won the seats in the elections. And not to be the advertising move of any of the political parties regardless of their size and that their work is mainly done by their deputies. I said maybe even a little incorrectly, I didn't mean anything by it, so there was legislation that had already happened. I think it's a con voter and we're going to offer laws that voters won't cheat no matter how well or poorly understood and accepted. And people will eventually understand what we're saying regardless of this censorship that the state media is having, if you need to say 50 more times, we'll say what we stand for.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90138	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90139	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Mlakar, a well-known practice in the EU, is that several months are known when the presidential elections are and when they are parliamentary elections. That's what all those who were observers in the election know because you get a few months, five, six months before you call for that election. So this is already too late now. So, it should be determined, I agree with you, when the presidential elections are, and I don't think it's even Mr. Josipovic's request, but that it's simply a committee of the government, the Prime Minister who has nothing to do. As far as I'm concerned, I fully agree with you that we should resolve the issue of replacement. So, voters pick someone on the list who enters the Parliament, he says I won't enter the Parliament and then the party determines then they'll enter. So that's just a hoax. That's why it's much better what I suggest, the threshold to be lifted and then the second one to enter the Parliament. So voters must have full power because this is a clear delusion of voters. Voters have the right when the party determines 14 people, I'm talking about a case where 14 candidates are for parliament, voters sort them out, and then if the first one doesn't go, if the first one goes for the minister, the second one goes for him, or as we agree here. All this other stuff you said you should do I hope until the second reading you'll do it. Constitutional changes won't happen, and you know it. You condition constitutional changes and you did not accept constitutional changes, you did not accept. And another thing that is my position about what you are looking for, only those who pay taxes in Croatia can decide the fate of Croatia, the one who will rule us, not someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90140	Davor's Mlakar response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90141	Dear colleague Vuksic, a few thesises, I don't know how long I'll be able to answer everything. When HDZ had the opportunity to propose, to pass, to vote the laws then it passed a law that still applies today, it was changed but the norm remained the same that local elections take place, play or hold every four years, three weeks at 5 months, and no one has any problems with that. But they're local elections and that's what HDZ was doing. We will not write all the laws to this government because we hold first that this is not our job, we suggest that they do not listen, and what we write is on the 70th point of the agenda of this session even though it has been in the Assembly for three years. And it's not our job to ask the President of Parliament or the Presidency to move those points. It's about the country's transport connection to the south that I don't remember the pearls when the minister then told on the job that 5 million euros would make a corridor through Neum, from then on we haven't built a corridor, we don't have containers near, we don't know anything about traffic connection, but point seventy-eight is on the agenda. We're not going to write laws to this government, we're going to suggest, if we have to write it down, but we're not waiting for the next term to put it on the agenda. All this other stuff you said unfortunately time won't let me answer you. And whether Mr. Josipovic is author or not, I don't know, his duty isn't, and you heard the Prime Minister think he's doing it differently in England, so he can do it in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90142	Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90143	Thank you very much. So if we have something in Croatia, my colleague Mlakar had a choice, and I don't know why, I'm going to look back on your thesis on women's quota because I think there's a lot of emphasis today on that 40%. And I think our society matures whether it's in law or not. I have made a small analysis of the European elections last for the EU Parliament so let's just listen to the quota as it was on some lists, the HDZ coalition of 11 candidates, 5 women, 6 men past 4 women and 2 men, 45% women. The SDP coalition of 4 women and 7 men 36% passed 1 woman and 3 men. Orah 6 women and 5 men 55% women, 1 woman passed and a man entered. Alliance for Croatia 9 men and 2 women, only 18%. Croatian Labourists, no one has passed. Croatian Labourists 6 men, 5 women no one passed, 45%. The national forum 45% of women have not passed either. So the experience is very clear. I don't see the need, so it doesn't say a 40% commitment there, but it was. And I believe the parties also take care of it, without being written down. And the worst is the one who stands for it the most. So one thing is practice, the other is theory. Everybody's got posters, everybody's pulling these sleeve associations, etc. And when it comes to applying then they look at us here, on this side and we send four women to Parliament and two men, here and again we are the worst, and again we are the worst. Now, they're asking how many of us are here. The two ministers returned, replaced them, and now they had to be put on board somewhere and replaced by our vice president from one of Mrs. Jerkovic's boards and put two men and what we should say now. We support it, but we don't need to write in the law. Did I say something wrong?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90144	Thank you. The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90145	My friend Boric, you said it so well that I'm giving up my replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90146	But you have more. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90147	Thank you. Mr. Mlakar, for a few things I want to replicate to you, and I hope I have time. At first, you actually started with HTV as a bulletin, in fact Milanović's presidential candidate, Ivo Josipovic, and you noticed that well. All that HTV is doing in his contribution, and today he did it because President Josipovic is paying and says he will not have enough money for the kind of festival that Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic had. He forgets that there are 50 million kunas available, 150 people in his office and several outside associates, and he forgets about the ZAMP and Emporion income, so if he needs help, we'll help him make a program that I don't believe he has. When you spoke about the preferential vote before that, you said and pointed out that we in the package gave actually constitutional changes, which is actually the prerequisite for certain amendments to the electoral legislation. And the truth is, in this preferential vote, it's actually forgotten that it's in Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia representatives in the Croatian Parliament do not have a binding mandate. And that's what is being talked about today, and those who enter the Croatian Parliament at that time actually don't have a binding mandate and it can serve and is a con voter. On the other hand, you talked about one part of it, but it was forgotten that the national minorities in the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament have 8 MPs, although the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities says they have the right from 5 to 8 MPs, and you have made one parallel for Croats outside Croatia who have a fixed quota of 3 which many have not been concerned about. And in the end, you said about the president's election that you were wrong in view of the Republic of Croatia's constitution, which says that the election of the president is at least 30 and 60 days before the term of office expires. That's not true. The Prime Minister said yesterday there may be a third round of elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90148	Thank you. The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90149	For the sake of safety, I quoted the regulations, not the Prime Minister, and I will try to do so until the end of the term because his quotes are horrifying, and I would not like them to be attributed to me one day. But what you said, and I may not have pointed out enough, I'm sorry that I missed some things, but I was speaking for the club, so I didn't want to further irritate our colleagues. Namely, my proposal would be if we had a chance, and colleagues say the Constitution won't change because we've been against other changes, and then we won't change this either, I don't understand exactly how it works, but we're always talking about the essence of what's written in the Constitution and not how many times someone's been in or out. It's not that kind of game. However, if we were to make changes to our laws, I would like to propose amendments to the Electoral Law and some others, in particular, to this election call. So I will at least suggest if it is possible that the elections for the President of the Republic are no longer called by the Government but by the Director-General of the HRT, because he is the one holding in his hands the fate of all our statements, all of what he wants to say to the Croatian public, but can't get through it because he does so to his clear censors, regardless of the Constitution, and now he's gone a step further and yet falsely speaking about the positions of parliamentary parties through his editors of the daily contrary to why parliamentary parties advocate. I therefore see it as one of the main factors of political stability in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90150	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90151	Thank you very much. I'm really surprised that you as an experienced lawyer didn't say some things because apparently everyone under the cover of preferential voting is offering something new, and this new thing is actually what my path should look like in the next meeting of the Croatian Parliament and it contains all these bill proposals. And we can play here as much as we want, and look who's behind what law you'll see is the key to this highway that's not going to be monetized, but to ensure the next four years, preferably which term, and that's the taste of the whole story. Because if we are all so much for a preferential vote, let's agree to amend the law so that 2 or 3 or as we agree on a member of parliament will be selected from the list by preferential votes and we end the story here. But I'm saying every law has its own catch. However, it is very interesting again to have the least interesting local self-government because what those local councillors do not decide anything and does not matter to the citizens who represent them in the city, municipal or county council or council. They should not be chosen by preferential vote they can go according to party criteria. Why? Well, because they're not close to the local self-government election and there's no need to traverse a particle to be found in some municipal council, etc. So it's a taste of the whole story, but everyone forgets the blackmail that the number of Croats in the Croatian Parliament has dropped outside Croatia to 3. So at the time when one of the key documents for Croatia's entry to conclude its negotiations with the EU, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was to be blackmailed towards HDZ that only 3 Croatians from Croatia could be in the Croatian Parliament. And therefore, if we want to talk about real problems then let's say we are for preferential votes but we are not ready to build anyone's roads for the next 4 years in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90152	Davor's Mlakar response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90153	You started out well, you felt right away that I wasn't experienced enough, so I missed some things. And that's true, I've been thinking, but maybe now this way from the bench might be easier to say. I wanted to say that each of these proposals has some handwriting and each proposal agrees with electoral legislation in a small part, but in a very specific direction. That's why I said we stand for the system. We don't have pre-set sizes, we don't have any special interests. Let's all suggest we put all the ideas on the table and see what needs to be changed to get a consistent electoral system. And then it repeats it to you more or less everyone who proposes partial amendments to the law. We are not exactly naive that we do not know that our majority of the ruling majority in this House will play agreements, ignore our precondition for talks on electoral legislation. There was no talk at all about how we see this legislation changing and what they imagined at the very beginning would remain a cosmetic change. The preferred vote will turn out to be the idea of our colleagues from the post and they actually prescribed it from HDZ and then from Mrs Markic and it will turn out that they have done something important in the electoral legislation. It is fortunate that the only thing I cannot write is that the electoral legislation counts only votes for the SDP, so their result will be defeated.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90154	Thank you. Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90155	Thank you very much. You said that well in your presentation, and we in HDZ are really behind it. I've never been afraid of a preferential vote. We have just done so in the first parliamentary elections and who is essentially afraid of a preferential vote, or who is seeking a preferential vote? Well, not these parties we are Croatia's strongest party democratic, so here I can say about the SDP, so they're not afraid of it either. But there are four to five MPs here, maybe not five who don't see each other after this session, so for another year he's been calling the Parliament, they just don't know where they're going to be, you know. And that's true, they're looking for a preferential vote to save themselves without talking about the democracy we've been hearing about here today. So these people should be wondering if they've been conducting democracy in their own parties in the past. I won't talk about it and I won't talk about individuals. What Mr. Boris was saying to you, Mr. Mlakar, about women's representation, I absolutely agree with both the Croatian Parliament and the European Parliament. But we're witnessing that just the dustiness of certain women who haven't recognized their options are away from the European Parliament before they came there because of their ignorance, above all foreign language and they are so smart and so teach lessons to each and every one of us here in this Croatian Parliament. [[Agreement: A colleague please, a colleague pick a few words.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90156	A colleague deserves this and a warning, but I'm not going to give it to you because she's not going to do anything with you. The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90157	Dear fellow Lucic, I would not speak in any attributes about my colleagues, I would experience them with the attention of each of my colleagues and try to fight the arguments and their behavior, work, will be somehow evaluated and evaluated by others. I'm afraid there were a lot more difficult and rougher expressions in this House than you said today, so it didn't deserve a warning, but it's a story of our criteria that isn't new, which is as old as taking these sessions. However, I think it is important to say that let's do electoral legislation with some goal of having a modern country that belongs to modern and objective procedures. In particular, how much representation on the lists will be, that is, part of the party's policy, part of it is understanding and involvement in politics in the final line. I'm afraid if we talk about it, we can talk about the number of young people we have on the lists. But putting on, prescribing sizes seems to me that we're going in the wrong direction. We need to show people that this job of ours can also be commendable, attractive and quality, and then the interest in politics will be different and the norm will not necessarily be prescribed in order for people to stick to it. We even thought about whether to speak about the voting rights of all persons over 16 years of age. You have a devastating fact that young people are running away from our country. That's a lot, but that's the law, and I don't have time for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90158	If we all stick to the weather, so must you. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90159	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Mlakar, here you are today in these afternoon hours, speaking a truly clear, reasoned truth. Whoever wants to be honest has to understand what you're talking about and you're talking about us, the biggest opposition HDZ party, having nothing against concrete proposals and real things. But what you said and suggested that one law should have both sublaws and a series of other laws to be. However, you see fellow you have no luck and grace to be in... This morning, everyone thanked Mrs. Željko Markic, most of the promoters who taught them democracy, and in a way better way, they threw their other hand onto this asphalt to prove that she showed them, opened their eyes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, isn't it a shame that in 2014 we also listened to the replica of Boric's colleagues on elections for the European Parliament, we must say that Mrs Zeljka Markic opened democratic visions for us? So what do you think of yourself and me, why are we sitting here, why? Are you nameless? Don't you think you deserve to be here was a man or a woman? And I personally think that all of us who came from the political parties have our own and our name and it was and it's going to be that the party will determine 14 and all those who want to go to the elections alone as independent so they don't have to raise Mrs. Zeljko Markic to the 3 percent, so it could be 0.1% then I, I vote for myself, I guess, so I'm going to join the Parliament. So is that democracy? What do we want to do with the Croatian Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90160	The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90161	We don't all stick to time, but it doesn't matter, and that's what we're gonna do. The criteria are different, we need to use the time you've left for us. What I didn't say to my colleague, twilight, and I was going to, but then I thought I'd give too many big lectures by entering the European Union, the Croatian Parliament transferred some of its competences to the community in which it is located. After that, the law handed more of its competences to the Government of the Republic of Croatia because of the operational performance of the business, so that we would not stop here because we were generally seen as brakers of some kind of process. Now the public is calling us out with regard to the picture that was created in it, partly thanks to us, and to the good part thanks to others. I wanted to talk about Parliament's position in our country today, I wanted to talk about the fact that this country has 142 registered political parties, but none of you have told these civil society associations what you would like, dealing with politics from the position of well-spent civil society associations where you will not be responsible for your work. That's not how it works. If you want to deal with politics, no one prevents you from getting involved in it, but none of the promoters wanted to say it because it is cheaper, smarter or better quality to stick to public opinion and transfer some of their demands to their proposals. That is why the congregation enjoys the image it enjoys in the people. If you had the guts then you would say that this is not the way it works, and that these suggestions are frauds, and it is not the achievement of what the citizens ask of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90162	You can still do it in two minutes. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90163	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A fellow Mlakar, it is my impression, and it is my impression all morning from a number of debates to read that these five proposals of the law were not as fungi after the rain, when in the Croatian public and through some surveys which may not have been made by the relevant agencies found that most Croatian citizens support a preferential vote, so I agree with you in that sense. In addition, there were five bill proposals in just two months. Maybe it's the most obvious example of SDP. In fact, the SDP chief secretary and club president said in an interview on July 18th that we are not running from the preferential vote, but the SDP and the government are now blocking the economy. It was two months ago, and afterwards, the SDP club proposes this law, which says in a certain way that he no longer assumes that he cares about the economy. More importantly, what you have said earlier is to be added to the voters and the electoral body, which is assumed to be closer at this point to the choice of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. And on the other hand, I'm surprised to admit that if it's so important, and it's an important electoral legislation, there's no government proposal. I think that if the government assesses that for Croatian society and the state as a whole it is more important and important to approach the preferential vote, then one systematic proposal should be made that implies everything you said and move towards the reorganisation of electoral legislation for local self-government, perhaps a different way and approach to elections for the European Parliament and for the Croatian Parliament. This is how it seems to me that it is only for the single use of courting the Croatian public, the Croatian voters, to try to buy a lost reputation which during these three years is ruling... Croatian society and try to find a better picture for themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90164	Thank you. Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90165	Well, you said very well, Comrade Bacic, although we must be honest. My colleague Martincevic submitted her proposal to me first, and I would say if she listened to the public, she did it in time or even before it started rolling in the Croatian public. Everything else, including our talks within our party, and the last such intervention comes from the ruling SDP, was like a hearingist reaction to the demand for the Croatian public, encouraged probably by these smart PR agencies that on the basis of a thousand people are constantly doing some kind of research and it's not in itself bad, it just means that the SDP did not come to this but that someone encouraged it. The second question is why the government didn't do it. Now there's a reason I think a simple explanation. The government that turned itself in to all the economy and foreign policy for the job did not have enough time, and as much time as it had left it could not tell whether there were 4.5 million voters in Croatia, 3 million, which would be 10%, and try to remember those same people who spoke to HDZ when talking about the voters list. And they've come up with a new list of voters, but I can't figure out what 10% is anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90166	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90167	Dear colleague Mlakar, which is, of course, your right to use the speech, saying on behalf of your party's club, mostly commenting and speaking to the media that they unfairly accused you of being all for amendments to the Electoral Law, and that you are not, and now you are constantly denying it, and you have tried it with your own speech. But again, you said several times that you never said that, so I will remind you what the president of your party said on 9 October 2014 at the final HDZ meeting in Mostar, so in Bosnia and Herzegovina where he says, you can look at it on all the portals "We are not for amendments to the election law one year before the election." But well, it's your relationship with the media and we're not getting into it. But the truth only works that nobody's to blame. Most of the time, you have devoted all your debate to something that is not at all the subject of today's debate. You spoke of elections for the president of the Republic of Croatia on such a law that should be or commenting on it, and you did not talk about all these proposals, there are five who bear the title of the Bill on Elections of MPs in Parliament, in the Croatian Parliament. But let's put it aside. But you're concluding your argument exactly that, again that we don't know what the date of the presidential election is, and then you're saying, "We're left with a cry when elections will be held." The elections will be held and declared as prescribed by the law. Therefore, you don't need to cry out for it. Call for later, after the presidential election, you'll need a cry for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90168	Thank you very much. Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90169	Comrade Anticevic, I don't know at what point you executed your concentration. But here I am going to try for you maybe a little easier to talk about. You are quoting what the president of the Croatian Democratic Community said, that we are not in favour of changing electoral legislation in the last year before the elections. That's right. I even sign what he said, which is why you might think I'm particularly courting him. But until recently, you didn't think you wanted to change election legislation in the last year, but you don't think that anymore. I was talking about the relationship of the media in which you, by your force, have suffered from the editor-in-chief to the Director-General. That's what I was talking about, and I was talking about how you're trying to show this people a distorted image of our sad reality. It's not enough that you're embellishing the story of economic success. You've come to say that we're against something that we're soul and heart for, and we were the first to do it. But since you like to quote, I could quote your president. I don't know if you'll agree with his quotes, but one of the first ones he put out for this speaker when he represented his government said, "By God I will never justify myself and speak of the past and of what I inherited. We belong to the future and we will only work in the future, it doesn't matter what happened before." Please, just because of your good influence position talk to him a little bit to think about his words.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90170	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90171	Dear colleagues and colleagues, you may go rest for a while, there will be no need for such dates. I won't bother you very much, but I have a few things to say about these amendments to the Election Law and these laws that are on our agenda today, which are in debate. First, I must say one thing and commend the representatives and representatives of the Croatian party of pensioners that they signed an initiative to amend electoral legislation in summer this year and that they found their partner in a specialized association to observe the elections to all known GONG. And what's also the value of that 30-seat group is that they're MPs from both the post and the opposition. In fact, we have here a joint proposal of a group of 30 MPs, which is one-fifth of a fifth of the Croatian Parliament and a serious political force, and we are pleased that this initiative may have been the trigger that we have more proposals for electoral legislation today. Of course we are, to stand and support all those demands that are in that proposal. However, with great respect, we also look at other proposals of the law, for each would find something in which our attention should be seized. There's more or less good arguments. Of course, it is hard to expect that if you stand on one electoral system for years now something with deep or upside down changes and that tomorrow we will have a completely different system. It just doesn't work, or let's say the two strongest political parties have their own interests in some way and I won't let that happen. We have to do this, or in some way, to accept that fact. Of course, in all the political stability theories, it is also said that the electoral system cannot be changed upside down and that it creates a kind of political instability. We have suggested three preferential votes there, but if we put it in context now with a quota that is nothing new. This quota of women's representation on lists is not something that has not since yesterday's, it was incorporated into electoral legislation as an obligation no'. A commitment to be implemented with a certain term of office. Then the question is, would you be able to hold that quota with three preferential votes, but I'm sure with one preferential, we could hold it. Of course, by combining the effects of preferential voting and the schedule of women and men on election lists. I am sure that we must respect this obligation because it is a decision of the Croatian Parliament, because it has already been incorporated into the laws and discussed. Of course not everything that we have put forward in our proposal for a law that I have personally signed that Mrs Kosor and Mr Flego have explained here, we are aware of but we will be pleased to see a minimal change in electoral legislation because including a preferential vote in the elections for Parliament is certainly going to mark those whom people know and whose work they value in relation to those who are either unknown or who do not enjoy voter confidence or who do not want to round them up. Therefore, everything we do and I believe that we will have some touch points and that in the end there will come a kind of compromise of all parties in the Croatian Parliament on a new proposal, or a proposal that should come into another reading, I think that we will all take one step forward together and this really without any malnutrition I say because there is really no need to deal with the past, although we all often mention it, but we are all dealing with how to give citizens more participation in the decision tomorrow, in choosing that it is not part of election engineering but that it is part of the real choice of citizens. I've been to our joint meetings many times before HSU and I've always spoken and pointed out, and I'm going to share that with you now that it's not just the election law that's the issue of distorting voter will, or electoral legislation. The problem is also with the Political Party Act. So, we in Croatia, despite allowing ourselves to run on independent lists of every citizen regardless of political commitment, we in Croatia have one unbearable ease of organising and registering political parties and know that all 20% of the fallen votes, so those below the threshold actually change the will of voters. And this is what almost all parties used in local elections, some of their satellite parties, to make a number of votes fall and thus provide the majority in representative bodies with electoral engineering. Otherwise, there's no need or logic to have a dozen right parties today. Don't be surprised at even 17 retirement parties registered. Not all of them are retired, you will find some with seniors, etc., under all kinds of names and most interesting are those actions because they start with A. Definitely this is one of the problems, we will not deal with this problem today, or in this debate we have an obligation to do so in the year before the election, but we can solve it in the year of the election. And HSU is working intensively to draw up a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Political Parties, and we will also be happy with the minimum shifts. Because I think that those parties that don't go to parliamentary elections and all of them are founded to become parliamentary not to live and to play insignificant roles but those who don't go to parliamentary elections don't really have any reason to exist. As there is no reason that there are neither those parties who have submitted any document for more than 10 years that they have had either a reporting or an election assembly, so they are in a hibernation somewhere. So I repeat to us, in HSU, all these bill proposals are valuable and we study them and in some way we support them in a specific way. We want a consensus in the Croatian Parliament on this, that we can all put together a single proposal and gather around the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to put forward a quality proposal that would in some way be the result of a minimum of the unity of all parties in the Croatian Parliament. Here I am, hoping it will happen and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90172	Thank you. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Grubisic-Kain, is there no one? They're losing their right to debate. On behalf of SDP representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90173	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Speaking on behalf of the SDP club, they can begin where the previous speaker is and we end up proposing that we at the SDP club propose our own proposal of the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament are very useful, very valuable other proposals and we believe not only that these proposals are worth the content of, but that this is something new and in the political life of Croatia, something that we have started and that, in any case, and at any time, in some way, the staff combination and the ratio of political forces in Croatia should be practiced in the future. So, more joint proposals, more discussions, which is essentially the content of democracy. Because we will all have to agree, although it is now our primary task to discuss these proposals together, to come up with a joint proposal as recently announced by the President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Leko, to meet at the minimum of the common denominator, which is acceptable to all of us and to see that many good things are repeated in all the proposals. But we are equally aware that the crisis, which is why it does not need to be kept secret that citizens were, through these or those initiatives or self-initiative, proponents of change and some major influence on politics. And it is no secret and it is no sin when political parties give their answers to such calls and dramatic calls. For if you do not answer such answers with justice, one can say you are deaf, dumb, and do not hear the people and the voice of the citizens. We are also aware that the electoral laws will not solve those problems of the accumulated representative crisis, representative democracy or the mistrust of citizens in politics. But in any case one is a small step forward in rehabilitation I would say politics and in stopping which is a very dangerous depoliticalization of politics. Because at the level of Croatia and at the level of the whole of Europe, citizens feel that the authorities have strayed from their needs, which is something that their needs are, which is simply a better life. The answer to this in many ways, and the crisis, or the demands of citizens in national countries, is even greater because they feel that their countries, and so our citizens, have seen it since they became EU members, that this is the way of decision-making, or the centres of power, are further away from them and that they simply have contained the levers that stand in place to enable their citizens to live in national countries. What should not be kept secret is true, and should also take advantage of this opportunity that even after a financial breakdown at EU level, we still have a majority that advocates an equal economic policy... And those who do not please the citizens of any country, and then neither in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And these are some things that we as an EU country had the right to say every time and this occasion. But if we're in... about this and a little wheel where we need to hear that our voice is heard along with other countries that would also like to see some change in this regard. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And against the cutting policy, it did not save Europe it will not save Croatia either. Let's talk content. I'm going to go back to the Electoral Law where I was saying, no problem to explain because I don't want to, I want us to understand each other well, that citizens are unhappy not only with the way they choose, but also with what they choose. But we can do it well in one way, not another way, but soon by amending the laws and political parties. Because the law is the basis of our political life as political parties. People are dissatisfied with political parties. What does the Constitution say about political parties? He only says that it is free to join citizens in political parties and talks about the financing of political parties that must be transparent. It also says that political parties, that they will not register, are included in the register of political parties that act against the constitutional arrangement of the Republic of Croatia. But the internal structure, the democratisation of the party that citizens are telling us that they want it to be something that we can achieve one step in this law, but also by amending the Law on political parties. But what I can say here, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, is that the SDP club has always preceded it, and when there have been young people, and women on the lists for the Parliament, equally so in terms of intra-party democracy, one vote. Surely that is not enough, but these are the first steps that other parties have not yet been prepared to this extent. So, many have said so and should not run away from it that the democratisation of society can happen if they are carriers, and we will all agree that they are, because that is how political parties are then also for the democratisation of political parties. When we talk about elections that are important because it is an integral part of the procedure, so democratisation, procedures, but institutions are equally important. So every politician's job regardless of what the personnel combination is... to protect the institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's how the responsible government works, that's how the responsible opposition works. And then when he's not in power to guard institutions, he can criticize people, but he protects institutions. And that's for what, that's what you expect from all of us and to gain citizens' trust. I will repeat what the SDP club is proposing and this is something that no party has proposed, but it has been crystallized since the morning that many parties do, that there is almost no party in this or that form that does not suggest representation of women on the lists to be fully open, so the sub-represented sex, which is a percentage of 40% We can say that SDP has 35% of women in the current situation, given the participation of SDPs and SDP's largest opposition party has 17%. So this is an opportunity for all of us to agree on this to balance ourselves so as that message often goes from our television screens, but truly true democracy does not exist without equal representation of men and women. We also find this proposal very valuable to make it impossible for persons convicted of serious crimes to compete in any election race at all. If it continues to tolerate such an option then indeed as the citizens say it is a farce of democracy and it is indeed one democratic deficit that we have, which we need to change through this electoral legislation. There are a whole series of other proposals that only individual parties have proposed, but we believe that they should be repeated even though only perhaps in one proposal they need to be considered very carefully. Several parties suggest that there is really no list bearer because list holders and indeed are a relic of the past, counterpart Stazic said this morning that the late President Tudjman was the bearer of all the lists, in all municipalities in all cities, the truth never had a single bearer for the council of local committees, but what in today is truly considered a con voter. We still had ministers in the past local elections in the past meeting who were ministers in the last government meeting who were first on the city council list, and it was known that they would not step away from their ministerial council and there were people and on that account, popular people loved them in a certain place or part of the place, and it was used. So it is certainly a relic of the past for the sake of the purity of conduct, it should also be seen by those who have had some kind of observation and the changes for local elections that should be taken into account and almost everything that is good and in this bill if we adopt it tomorrow as a common law that we also apply it at local level that we do not have these rabbits, that everyone is running their own race, that citizens still have a feeling as much as it is the duty of the political party, it is the party's leadership and the political party as it is settled somewhere, but mostly people have the opportunity to discuss it. Whether they appear in some parties or not, but I see that the statutes are more or less similar everywhere, so one man proposes but the bodies decide. So what the statutes allow, but here we are now talking about laws, no one is just preventing people like that from being on the lists for whom people would like to vote. But it will always be that the party has to determine that there have been speeches here, it is the party that determines the order on the list. So I would refer to those who said let's choose people by name and last name, not those who determine political parties. So I would answer like that, those aren't here to be answered, and who would put your list together? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90174	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90175	Thank you. If I had agreed with you, and it is really good to have a political process like this started and this kind of conversation finally started once from the Croatian Parliament, and not only came as some kind of finished solution from the Croatian government. I must say, personally, that I am sorry that this is one such event at least in this term, so one time is the Croatian Parliament is either creating or trying to create the outlines of some legislative solutions. And unfortunately only in this case when it is this legislative solution that concerns the Croatian Parliament itself. It would be good for me to think that in some other social issues and problems in this way it appeared and opened the debate and that the Croatian Assembly of various aspects tried to draw up some solutions or at least some positions in solutions and offer them to the Croatian Government to shape them, for example, into some laws. So I will remind you that within a few days, it is marked 6 months of our proposal which was not legislative but was a proposal to open the debate on the problem of execution and the problem of home as constitutional categories and to try to open a parliamentary dialogue on it and take some positions and send those positions to the Government to implement them in certain laws. This proposal to open the debate has not been a solution for six months and remains at the bottom of the agenda and shows how little trust we have in ourselves and in some of our initiatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90176	Thank you. Next replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90177	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. When Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic speaks on behalf of the SDP about the women's quota on the list, then I must put a few observations on that debate, remarks, however you wish. Namely, I would ask if she had ever experienced that her party chief was any, she had a long internship in the SDP forbidding any woman to run for office and be on the list because she's a woman? It's not. It never is. Neither in other parties either, I am convinced in HDZ that someone has banned someone from being on the list because it is a woman. So politically active women or if we were to question men and women in the Republic of Croatia who they are, they want to be politically active. You would see for sure and reliable that a large number of women do not want to deal with politics, perhaps better. So politics. So you can't ultimulate any foreigner with this article on the 21st, as it says here it has to be 40% women and 40% men and what about these other 20%, which are Martians? But we're not going to go into the details, we'll do it later. Furthermore, as the party of women who exists in the Republic of Croatia is registered and going to elections is so unsuccessful, we must say the failure in the elections either local, or any other that there are no councilors in the cities, not in the municipalities or in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, and it is called the Party of Women and represents those 51% of women. So I'm not against being as many women as possible and it's a recommendation to all parties, to all the lists that go to the elections. And I also want there to be as many women on our list as possible, but sometimes you can't just put someone on the list because of the quota, to say maybe politically, I'm talking about politics, unquality and inexperienced, etc. Or I don't know. What about the young man's relationship in the Republic of Croatia? Why don't we set the quotas here, too? What about left-handed people have 10% in Croatia as well as in every population, so why don't we say that there must be 10% left-handed in Parliament? ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90178	Thank you, colleague Grubisic. Answer, colleague Antičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90179	I believe my colleague because I know your views that discretion is what you just said last, which is here at the end of your left hand and your right hand is even with men and women at all, with one sex, surely it wasn't your intention. And the truth is that some party doesn't have, it's not with its own program... for women, but then this party should think a little bit about how it does not attract it with its programme of women. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But let's let it go to certain political parties. What's good and what has to be for democracy, and that's that even representation of men and women. You seven don't have any wives, it's not and it's not good anyway. Here you see, we often love to compare Scandinavian countries especially when it comes to the economy, it came precisely because of the potential of women. No society is so rich as to give up 50% of their brains and intelligence, abilities, none. And the companies that made those quotas over and over again now don't need quotas. And you know where they're going now? They forbid the registration of a private company if there are no 50% women in management.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90180	Thank you. Branko Vuksic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90181	Dear colleagues Antičević-Marinović. Well, you're in your debate. I couldn't bear not to answer that. I said SDP was the leader of party democracy. I can't tell if it's true or not, I'm not in your party, so I don't know, I hear what I hear in the halls. Let's say last week's meeting of your club, etc... And you boasted that you were implementing the principle of 1 man 1 vote. You didn't get very happy here, and you know it. 1 man 1 vote and this time you showed that most should not always be right. It's not bad, it's a fact. You said another fact with which I fully agree that institutions should be guarded, that they can be criticised but that institutions should be guarded. That's right, the Parliament needs to be guarded, but the bad ones need to be criticised. The government needs to be guarded, but if the Prime Minister is bad, then he needs to be criticized. However, this cannot be tolerated by your Prime Minister and he always goes when he is criticised as Prime Minister not as a person Zoran Milanovic, going on a personal level, it is already the level of his culture, or unculture. And your relationship with your party to women I've seen, felt, and we've seen everyone when your men are out of office how quickly you've pissed off the women of the board president and replaced them and there's your men at the head of the board. So why weren't you principled here, why did you change the president of the Health Committee that did it well? But the man is out of office, so let's give it to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90182	Answer, colleague Antičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90183	My colleague, you agree with me what I said but then you are counting, using the opportunity to criticize President Milanovic, Prime Minister and the president of our party. We've chosen for one man, a choice, one man one vote, that would be a warm recommendation to everyone. Of course that's not enough, that's not enough, but that's the first step we've done. Here's what you do, everybody else. Secondly, you say President Milanovic speaks and responds personally. He only responds personally when asked to such a level. And often, what you're saying and arrogance and some insolence are interpreted because there's still going on, I'm not saying it's always good and good, but something that we're not used to as politicians and we're going to have to get used to always telling the truth and even when it doesn't suit us in an unconventional way. Because today you remember, so you had that experience when you were a kid and I, if you avoid the truth, then our parents patted us perfectly, they'd be a politician. Well, that's enough of that kind of policy. So we today think that a good politician is the one who's capable of avoiding the truth, lying and setting each other up with a pig. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90184	Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90185	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, what I agree with is this last line of yours from the debate, which is that those who swore to all these legal proposals this morning and talked about the name and last name, it was reportedly Mrs. Željka Markić had just opened their eyes, to put together the list herself and who would draw up their lists, to see how they would pass. However, in some ways you really give all the credit to the SDP related to these quotas, related to democracy, democracy, etc., so you forget to say that in this House, and here on your part, the original mandate doesn't have women who today, most of the women who are sitting here today, but are being replaced. Replacement because, of course, men have gone to far more important places where something is decided. What we think here, that quota is a tool and okay, but the quality of each of us here, and women and men, must be a priority. You say you first introduced one man one vote. But fellow Anticevic, one man, one candidate, what kind of a courting democracy is that?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90186	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Antičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90187	When we introduced one man one vote we had 3-4 candidates, next time less. So the thing is perfectly clear, and we had a lot of candidates at first, so one and the same candidate took part in it, but so much about it. You're saying we don't have as many women as we stand for, or that they were a replacement. That's right. Thus, we are not satisfied with what we have achieved, so we are looking ahead. But don't you criticize us who are far above you to find an excuse for the status quo to remain. So there's 17% of you, you can't even sit in the first, second and third bench, but they put you in the fourth and fifth bench. ... That's inadmissible. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] When you see here, the men themselves stand as if they were a central committee. And we're, we're sorry about that here, and that's why I'm inviting you to join us here. ... I'm sorry, it's ugly to see them painted here without women. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90188	Thank you. Here I'm asking you not to enter the word. And the last replica, Ivan Šimunović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90189	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I have reason to believe that it is necessary to supplement the current Election Law in a way that will allow citizens to have a greater influence on the choice of persons to represent them in the Croatian Parliament. First of all, every representative in the Croatian Parliament should represent the interests of the citizens who chose him, not the particular interests of a particular elite or themselves. Reforming the electoral system could result in changes, but I'm afraid this change in the electoral model will not suit voters' interests. This attempt by the ruling coalition to establish order in electoral legislation is quite unconstitutional. I see this as the last cry for help from the ruling coalition, in fact the ruling coalition is not aware of the fact that the Croatian people have failed and that the introduction of a new Electoral Law will not help them restore citizens' trust. Changes in Croatia cannot be resolved by changes in the electoral system. The problem of unemployment, we neglect the defender and other problems that affect Croatian citizens will not change by changing the electoral system. This bill is insufficiently precise and does not address the existing problems of electoral legislation at all. Therefore, the Croatian party of law, Dr Ante Starcevic, is in favour of a preferential vote, but will certainly not support this form of electoral system proposed by the ruling coalition. Croatia needs an electoral system that will primarily ensure the stability of the government. This important principle of stability in power is a guarantee of democracy. All in all, preferential voting should allow citizens greater participation and greater influence of citizens in election processes. This time, the preferred vote is in the hands of the ruling coalition, which wants to accomplish an impossible mission in the coming elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90190	Thank you. Answer from my colleague Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90191	My friend, I'm sorry you put it together at home, so now it has nothing to do with what I just said. You were going to say that, you have the right to say that, and in general you say that these legal proposals are not accurate. Say, please, what isn't accurate? If we ever had more precise laws than any club, that's exactly what these are. Each indicates exactly what he wants and even explains in detail what he wants. You say we'll make it possible for the citizens, how they'll make it possible, so that's one way to make it possible for the citizens. One representative, he can imagine representing all citizens but exactly gathering citizens and voters over an idea so those who represent some ideas, it is another that they have now divided these ideas and it is a crisis and democracy and political parties, which some no longer know what their ideas are, what their ideas are, what they have gathered about, what messages are sent to voters. Well, surely my voters aren't your voters, even though we can rationally say that we represent all voters and we need them around common interests. But there are some particular interests that are special not only within the party but the particular interests of citizens who want something. One wants legalization, I don't know what, the other doesn't want it. Whose interests will you represent? Everything? So these are attempts to answer, these are difficult questions but these are attempts to answer how to be a citizen of this political process because he wants to say I am not a member of any party, but no party can say much anymore, or I will do in my own backyard what I want as an individual in his family can't do, no one in the country can do what they want. Well, I can't even have people in political parties anymore, and that's one of the attempts and influences of the citizens on that. And instead of commending it, you're talking about some kind of cry, it won't help us, either. And what do they want? Back to the old, afraid to even argue and speak and demonstrate. Are you threatening the Croatian people?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90192	We continue with, my colleague, please, continue with the individual debate of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90193	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's what we think of these suggestions. I have a feeling all day that many want to be beautiful flowers in this election garden and that we are now trying to find the best way to choose these most beautiful flowers when the time comes. However, what I will first determine, I think there is no electoral law that can solve the problems of Croatian citizens who have accumulated and who have created a desire to make changes in society. So, you can model something, you can maybe make it easier for yourself to leave, maybe provide a better result, but still change wants and they'll happen when the time comes. I'm going to look back at the most important parts of today's time that we're talking about with changes, the way we approach changes, that is. to seek this consensus, the reason why we approach the preferential voice, the experience we have with the preferential votes. If I get there, maybe more about some of the problems that have come up. We've heard that we respect the recommendations of the Venice Commission. A decade ago, the Venice Commission, its recommendations were not important, was the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Election of Presidents. It didn't matter. So we're giving ourselves some time a year before the election, so let's go now in this election section, we can follow those recommendations. But before that, I think this time marked a referendum. So, if there hadn't been a referendum we could talk now I remembered, we remembered, a few clubs remembered. That's not what it would be, it's proof of some of the suggestions that stood before. He wouldn't open them until there was a referendum. When the referendum happened, everyone started offering their solutions. The executive power was immediately determined. The Prime Minister said I don't care about that. I've got better things to do. The government doesn't suggest anything. She moved to the SDP club to choose to deal with the situation however they like it, but that they handle it. The government, Bauk won't talk about it at all. I listened to him on a show, he said he was against it, that without some fuses, it had no value as a preferential vote. And of course, we came to the Parliament. Now we have a way of looking for a consensus. We have already been through these experiences of seeking consensus on constitutional changes, at the consensus on the election of the Ombudsman, the director of HRT, the consensus on the Electoral Law on the election of the president, etc. All these consensuals have turned into the overvote of the majority over the minority. So it's the only fact that stems from these requests for consensus. I don't think this is going to end any different. Why? Because when the HDZ Club said that we wanted to open up the issue of amending the Constitution and Article 45, it was an immediate reaction we won't do it, but we want to ask for a consensus. So we can only ask for a consensus about what we want. And I don't believe there are any ultimate consensus in the world. Then it can't be called that, it can't be called that. It could be some kind of debate club, some kind of debate that I can't actually give birth to with any consensus. If we want a consensus, then we put everything on the table, and we figure out why we don't want it. Let's determine that. But this isn't even allowed to be suggested, so we don't want to. But we want to make the impression that we're all for consensus. Okay. It's a question of perception how the citizens will understand it, etc. I think this law will be passed at the request of the SDP club with 76 votes and will be worth what it's worth. But this will be the way to make sure that the same consensus may be sought at some time that will come. Then it will obviously be moderated in a different way, but my God. Who to protect institutions as counterpart Ingrid said, as they have kept them especially about consensus and the appointment of, say, responsible persons to some positions and so on. That was what we vote for ourselves, we propose for ourselves, no one controls us and we move on. We're self-sufficient and we can do it because we have a majority. The reason we're approaching is because I said a referendum. Is 380 thousand signatures enough? They'll tell the Constitutional Court. Is the question allowed? The Constitutional Court will probably say that, too. Is the diaspora in that 10%? I don't know. We recently had a referendum on marriage. When those boxes were brought in, I think there were some signed books from the diaspora. What will the Constitutional Court say? I don't know how many books there were, but if we were collecting then maybe now it had to be gathered but it wasn't gathering, etc. Let the Constitutional Court say that. But the referendum was the reason why these questions were raised. I say, when the problem has arisen, it needs to be solved. And what if the Constitutional Court finds that there are a lot of signatures and that the question is allowed? Then what are we discussing here today, then we're going to a referendum. Are we going to get into some time of confusion in which one might be broken with another? We don't know what the Constitutional Court will say or we already know it in advance. I don't know, I'm asking. I'll look back at the slogan, pick out the capable ones, not the likes. Someone said by name and last name, but I think it's more strikingly capable than similar. In some parts of the referendum, which offered a threshold of three percent, a ban on coalitions, etc. But before that, I'll talk about the preferential vote. We've heard a lot about it before. In Croatia, the President of the Republic, mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors is elected in one form. We have two experiences with the EU elections. We can't say we don't have experience. But what's going on? Today, we are convinced that HDZ is against it, and we have introduced all these laws. Everything. We accepted, of course. You were the government, you proposed, you accepted. Let's not hide. But today I say the need to point out someone, and the other one humbles you're against. Even the media know our position, show it in advance, etc. What do the experiences say? When we spoke to Bauku, don't change the stable system of election of the mayor, the mayor. He said no, let the dependent or chiefs and municipal councils of the congregation come. What happened recently in the Primorian-Gorski County? A representative of the Labourist has moved to the HNS to strengthen the majority in the Primorje-Gorski County Assembly and the budget can be voted on. If not, the question is whether the Mayor of Komadin would be more of a mayor after 12 months. And when we warned them not to do that they said it was great. You'll see how many choices there will be after this year. In the final election of 3 million 767 thousand voters 950,000 took advantage of the right to vote, 25%. It means that the preferential vote failed to motivate citizens to come out in large numbers. How did they explain the political wants? The election doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter that the citizens didn't come out, but apparently the preferential voice was not the motive for entering the election process at the time. Now they are parliamentary before us and of course there will be everything. 11 constituency units, as many lists as you want. There were 36 electoral lists in the second election unit in 2011. Let's say in fourth only 23. We'll see what those books look like, those hundreds of candidates. Somebody get on with it. You'll see what it looks like. An example of a preferential vote in the EU elections. I don't think it was a reason to go to the polls, and I don't think it fits the one I already said capable, not similar. Why? Because the reason for the first election was 20.83%. On the other 25. So there's an experience that says people can. When they came out, when they voted 30% on average, the citizens didn't take advantage of the right to a preferential vote at all, and we're saying it's fateful for the development of this country so it can solve the problems of the deficits and the development of this country. That's how it was presented in the referendum. Almost the same candidates on those lists who appeared in both the first and second elections because of visibility grew only two to three percent from the first in the second elections. Look at the results I do not know Tonin Picule, Plenkovica, Ruže Tomasic etc. they always got about the same number as in the first election. Is Recognition Important? It is. Who did we give the tools to? The media with the preferred vote. They will be the ones who will try to moderate the political scene that should enter this House in a way that one and I think they are more or less inclined to the left option, that someone will get a few percent or a lot more percent than someone else and of course they will have more visibility. Who will be able to influence that? No one. What does the experience say? Here we had a practical experience where a colleague, I say, entered that body, got enough votes, but she put the change on. Can you solve that question without a fuse? I think if we want a preferential vote, we should put in conditions. You've entered the Parliament, you can't go into executive power, you can't move. You represent yourself as a citizen, and in some ways it would be worth it. If we let go of just some threshold and someone to choose, then that's what's going on, and otherwise when I say so, it wasn't solved. And what else is important to mention on these coalition lists Less parties group their votes and have a better chance, because large parties in 14 have a dozen candidates and distribute their... [[Intruder Batinić: It's time, fellow Boric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90194	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Miss twilight, please. I've been waiting for you to finish your thought, but you're a little too much. Here you go, comrade twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Boric. Like your replica of fellow Mlakaru, so this debate can be said thoroughly and has covered all aspects, all the problems, all the good and bad sides. That's how it's supposed to be. We were supposed to get good comprehensive proposals from the Electoral Law today. Yeah, you shouldn't look at this right-hand side of us as someone who doesn't want anything. If we wanted to, we said everything in our discussions. And you don't need to say well you noticed that. Unfortunately, my colleague Ingrid is gone. She boasts that they're the first beginners we've done a great job with women. And you see there are populations in Croatia that we want to open. No one, that, in that proposal of theirs this morning, said that, we want 40% of the women must sit in the Parliament, persons with disabilities, must be the representation of young people. I'd see the seriousness of that whole story and I'd say this is something new. The Croatian Parliament wants something new and Croatian citizens would accept it in a completely different way. And speak well of my colleague, Boric, about microcry. I'd call this some kind of transparent veil when it came to you and you said the referendum itself was quick for everyone to remember. What's worse for me is that election threshold so embarrassingly low, it almost has a name and name that election threshold. In my opinion, if we wanted democracy, we'd raise the electoral threshold, so let's see who gets into that Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90196	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90197	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague, twilight. Look, I'm gonna go back to what I'm capable of, not the likes of it. In a preferential voice, respecting such a slogan, one will be able to enter the lists, say, one coalition list of six, seven candidates. These six others, five, six, seven will receive a similar label if we literally apply it as requested by the referendum. I don't think that's good or good-looking. I think that as many of us as there are here, that we are all people who through life are gaining knowledge and abilities and that maybe it's not the happiest thing to do is to share both gender and gender in this way and in some way that we are trying to lead to absurdity. But if the electoral system wants it, there are experiences. In the last parliamentary elections in VII. The constituency was one list with 14 women. You know how many votes she's got? 2%. What are we trying to say? Well, it can't just be a criterion to create something or be a better one. So 14 women, so let's just say be or will, first they choose a party, and that's what this law offers, and then under the party, choose one you want. But if we're going to choose him, then we'll make sure he's safe when we choose him not to move out of here. If there's power, then who doesn't want to be a minister and says I'm going to be in Parliament now? Well, he'll be gone. Who's his replacement? Well, not just the minister, the assistant minister, the director of the agency wants to be. He's leaving Parliament. And what did we choose? How do the people we offered it to feel like a model? So without the fuses, without conditions, what we have witnessed in the EU elections will happen. So we have experience. So if someone gets 52,000 votes, and someone gets 2 grand, and they get this one with 2 and not the 52 that we have more to talk about the value of that institute?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90198	Thank you. Next line, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90199	Thank you very much. You were not in short procedure today, so you expressed your position extensively in connection with this matter. But what bothered me a little bit is that I'm not saying a little bit that you're reducing the significance of 380 thousand signatures. And these 380 thousand signatures collected for the 2013 European Parliament or 40% of voters in the European Parliament elections are 49% of voters. Even 49% and I don't speak any more numbers. Until two months ago, it was quite clear from officials and SDP and HDZ statements that, as you say, the media was clearly not lying, statements that we saw with our eyes on TV screens and commercial and public television, that both were actually against preferential voting. That's how it was until two months ago. Is this initiative with these signatures and one charge in the Croatian people, the speech that time has come and matured, simply that is the atmosphere, maybe the SDP has succumbed and here you are persistent that you are a little bit still not for it, it's hard to say. Confusion in electoral legislation exists as well as confusion in this country and in this society. And yesterday we saw the best on the current morning. I have already said 100 times that you have obeyed or applied directives or EU dictatorship in which the usual preferential vote has been held in our European Parliament elections. Therefore, you have not introduced anything, you have only accepted what was signed in the agreement between Croatia and the EU the way of voting for the European Parliament. And if it were your wetlands, it certainly wasn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90200	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90201	Thank you very much. I do not agree with you, my colleague Grubisic, that I have offended the referendum, but I did say that we entered the period when we discussed several amendments to the law without knowing the basic initial positions set up by the referendum. That's 380 thousand voters. How many voters in the Republic of Croatia do we have to know what 10% is and then the question is whether or not the question is founded, so we go to the referendum or not. Until we know that, if it happens, and I said both, okay, enough voters, so the question is fine, then we'll go to the referendum. And what do we have to change and supplement this law at the same time or already done? Then that's the problem. Now, why did everyone remember? I said again for the referendum. I will never go against whether anyone wants anything, but I wanted to explain in some parts, and it was a slogan that offered that he was not really affected because the practice would show what I said that anyone who was elected on the list could not be labelled capable because they got the highest number of preferential votes and that everyone else who then entered the list by some other criterion because there were a lot of percentages or so on were similar. Because now they're like everyone else on the list, so we're all alike, some kind of ear, and there's nothing behind us. Well, I'm never going to talk like that, and I'm fighting it because I think I'm a very young person for 42 years, and I have eight years of executive power behind me and now the Parliament and before that local level and I don't think I know anything and I'm incompetent. Will it be enough for me to be able to think that only one who gets the most preferential votes to determine my ability to do so? I don't think that's hit. They will always be chosen by name and last name but before that the party will be elected. And 30% of people didn't consume the right to choose favorably even though they did. It shows numbers, we have nothing to hide or invent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90202	Thank you. Next up for debate Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90203	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is my colleague and colleague, and in my individual debate, I will show myself to be part of the SDP Electoral Law proposal and the part relating to quotas. In fact, research has shown that a significant percentage of the electoral bodies of both sexes believe that the current representation of women in political decision-making is insufficient and that greater representation would change the quality of policy. Since I had several discussions today, I could hear that if it were adopted, it would even be a questionable quality of the list. I will point out that today is in the EU, which is about a percentage in the Republic of Croatia of about 60 persons with a university degree in women's sex. And in reality, the so-called glass ceiling is always above the head. As it is today in this 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament, of 39 women, 32 are highly educated or 82%, and of 112 men 77, is highly educated or 68%. In the spring of 2013 At its plenary session in Strasbourg, the European Parliament discussed a proposal for a resolution on women's rights, which was voted on by the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality. The resolution is, of course, legally non-binding text but sets out general recommendations and recommendations for individual countries. Recommendations aimed at Croatia were to invite Croatia to fully implement laws that determine that 40% of women should be on election lists for bodies, for local and regional self-government, the National Parliament and the European Parliament. The motion for a resolution also stated that the parliamentary elections in the Republic of Croatia in 2011 failed to meet that goal. In 2008, the Croatian Parliament passed a Law on Gender Equality, 6 years ago. The Croatian Parliament, by adopting the Law on Gender Equality, established general grounds for protecting and promoting gender equality as the fundamental values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. The law defined and arranged a way of protecting against discrimination based on sex and creating equal opportunities for women and men, and we heard only one against and one abstention of parliamentary representatives agreed that gender equality means that women and men are equally present in all areas of public and political life. This law or the vote of the law has agreed on specific measures to ensure mechanisms that eliminate existing inequalities. It is thus envisaged that the implementation of specific measures will promote equal participation of women and men in the bodies of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities, and gradually increase the involvement of the sub-represented sex by achieving its representation level in the general population of the Republic of Croatia. For the purpose of achieving this goal, parliamentarians voted that special measures would be put in place when the representation of one sex is felt to be unbalanced, and it is unbalanced if it is below 40% in public and political decision-making bodies. The law allowed a gradual increase from the day of its entry into force, so I repeat it in 2008 six years ago. And what did the practice show us? The practice showed that the concept of gradual increase was interpreted in a way that in the 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament the proportion of women was 25.4%, and in this 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament the proportion of women was 26%. So we've progressed by a full 0.6%. Taking into account the dynamics of the gradual increase in the legal minimum, we could reach for some 6 future meetings of the Croatian Parliament because since we have demonstrated our intention and dynamics, I am not sure that it would be a political will in 2019. And therefore, taking into account all that I have said in advance, it is necessary that the SDP proposal, which is proposed to respect the principle of gender equality and to take into account the balanced representation of women and men on lists and that the illegal list will be the one on which at least 60% of the members of both sexes are not represented. So I really hope that the fact that within 6 years almost, we have not removed from place, will be sufficient argument for the representatives' clubs when they agree after the first reading of all proposals, and that in this conference we will show that we do not keep the fig tree in our pocket as clearly held by many from the 6th congregation by raising the hand for the Law on Gender Equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90204	Thank you. Boro Grubisic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90205	Thank you very much. Mrs Fabiančić-Križanić, namely quotas for men and women on the list of candidates for the Croatian Parliament, is not the main issue of elections in the Republic of Croatia and the main problem of politics and the state of the economy and the overall situation in the Republic of Croatia. It has nothing to do with that. In the Republic of Croatia, bonuses for those parties who have a greater share of women as parliamentary deputies are higher when money is given to the parties than those who have only or most men. So let's increase that bonus even more. Furthermore, there is nowhere in Europe, no list has 40% of women to vote for the European Parliament, very rarely. And lists that do not have it are subject to sanctions in terms of fines. No disqualification of the list, etc. Therefore, there are fines, provisions which are set out if an extremely high number of one or the other, male or female parties in excess are fined monetaryally, and they have particulars, even have a certain amount of fines for such lists. And no disqualification of the list. When you spoke about professional preparation, i.e. education of male and female representatives in the Croatian Parliament, you said that among women of 39, 32 were educated or 80% and 68% among men. If it were the opposite number of women and men in the Croatian Parliament, the same relationship would be if it were this. So I'd say more like it's statistical, at a statistical error level of 80 or 70%
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90206	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Fabiancice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90207	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Grubisic, I'm not surprised that you'd be more provoking sanctions than I'm surprised anymore if you had 0% of women in the 6th meeting, at 7, so you don't have those 0.06%, so you'd rather pay that woman off. That's the first one. And as far as professional equipment is concerned, it's simply not true and it can't even be statistical. And it's not just politics. You will see now and during the other day the Court's report and you will see that 69% of the total judicial officials are women, and we know who is all and what exams and arrangements must be appointed and appointed judge, and on the fingers of the two hands you could count how many presidents there are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90208	Next up for discussion, Gordana Sobol. Here you go. My colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90209	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here, after a really day-long debate, I want to briefly also look back, so I'd say basically that part of all these bill proposals, so different bill proposals that are still, now that you're taking the suma sumarum of all the debates, I think this is a question of women's participation and including women on the lists. So, sex quotas, they're not female quotas, they're sex quotas that guarantee representation of both genders at a minimum of 40%, so almost the most debate and replicas of each other, and so on, which I think is actually good, and that gives me hope that maybe this Assembly's summation has matured in this sense to take steps in relation to what we've had so far. And if I'm not mistaken, I think that more or less everyone supported the intensification that this issue is really seriously considered and that an attempt to reach consensus on the issue of women's participation in, say, tomorrow's assembly. It seems to me that only colleagues and colleagues from HDZ and the HDZ were those who in some way expressed the most fences about it. I then wonder, in 2008, we passed this Law on Gender Equality, which was then for the first time in Croatia and, in relation to many other countries, introduced that provision of 40 percent gender representation, so with one abstention and one vote against the general consensus, in fact, this Law on Gender Equality. The way we brought it in, so it seems we've actually completely forgotten about it or tried to ignore it, eskicipate all these years behind us. So then we see a general stagnation when it comes to women participation in both local elections and national elections, we've made some small shifts in past local elections. Article 12, before I say Article 12, today I am sorry even more than I did in 2008 that the SDP Club amendment was not then accepted where we proposed to enter the law, to define what it means to gradually introduce more women on lists and then to vote and that we did so then, perhaps in these parliamentary elections we should not have almost any more debates. No. of Article 12. The law on gender equality, colleagues and colleagues speaks of a gradual, therefore, adoption of measures that will gradually lead to a balanced representation of both sexes and has one sentence that everyone forgets - so that its representation reaches the level of its share in the total population of the Republic of Croatia. This means that in some subsequent elections, and within 2 years, we have had local elections and local elections in the 3rd election cycle since we passed this law, which would mean that in these local elections all of our lists for municipal, city councils and county parliaments should have 51, something or 52% of women. And today we're discussing whether, how, in what way, we're going to find women, 40% of women to put them on the lists. We are discussing this today, a year before the parliamentary elections. There are two local elections behind us, there are some parliamentary elections behind us, behind us there are two elections for the European Parliament, and we are still discussing today whether, as representatives and MPs, we are going to take this one step forward and in line with, I, of course, advocate the SDP's proposal for 40 percent representation of both sexes and that the lists that are not so drawn up are not accepted as valid, but I suggest a step further, and that is to be credible until the end because this way we will not be credible until the end and for me is personally the most honest approach to this... system. This means in the same way, equal representation of women and men by comparing alterations on the male-female, male-female or vice-female-male, female-male. It is the only way that we can achieve the second part, which is to guarantee that so many women will be, or that so many men will be elected to the next assembly of this Parliament. In 2008, I said that we had passed a Law on Gender Equality at the time of the HDZ Government. Last week, your colleague, Shex, at the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution of the Arms, supported this proposal by SDP and spoke and the need, therefore achieving equal representation of both sexes, it seems to me that today I am hearing some very different thoughts and doubts about this proposal, so I call on both colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ but I call on the HDZB to return to what we had in 2008 to find together that in the next parliamentary elections we achieve 40% of women and men. Someone's here, I think my colleague Grubisic is out, he said that we think that by solving the quotas he will solve the economic, social and any other crisis in this country. And I'm asking, don't women in this case who are under-represented have the right to participate in discussions and decision-making, as well as in the difficult economic, social and any other crisis or still most women have to stay away? And of course the question, are we really as rich and developed as we are to give up, some of my colleagues used to say, women's minds of female intelligence, education, knowledge that has everything that they could bring amongst other things and in the future of this Parliament. And I can't accept being discussed in a way that and now she wants women, and who's thinking about people with disabilities, so who's thinking about young people? Well, people with disabilities and those young and old, so they're both men and women, it has absolutely nothing to do with the sex quota. And the left-handed give fellow Boric and left-handed and right-handed. So let's not let that be the case in both the female population and the male population have all these categories, and they would all, through these lists, through the names that will be there, be represented in this House, and that absolutely has absolutely nothing to do with whether they are male or female. In that sense, by supporting all the debates that were going in this direction, I'm pushing for a zip system because the experiences of all the countries that were held on financial punishment alone, the type if your list doesn't have enough men or women you'll pay some kind of punishment, indicates that political parties have always paid the penalties but have not reached sexual quotas. So you'll always prefer to pay the fines, and you won't get the quota. When we talk about preferential voting, I am in part in favour of a preferential vote and, in line with the club's proposal, I advocate that, as in the European Parliament elections, citizens can round up a candidate or candidate from the list, but only a preferential vote, especially in a larger number, is negatively reflected in the choice of women. In my debate, too, I listened to you, perhaps unconsciously or knowingly, to the fact that you were a colleague of Ruža Tomasic, Marijana Petir, elected to the European Parliament, you were coalition partners but because they were the only representatives of their parties and they brought all their voters together and they realized it. But that doesn't have to be an obstacle to me, or should be an obstacle to some future coalitions that are going to work, so I'm pushing for that one preferential vote, but I'm primarily in favour of a list that's going to be drawn up by the zip system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90210	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Sobol, I'm very sorry that you said such an inaccuracies, which is but that may have been your impression, but I'm really sorry that you said that we at the HDZ Club have any fence to participate in 40% of women's lists, absolutely no. And this HDZ proved with one presidential candidate in 2003, today the future Croatian president is supported by HDZ. Please tell me it's nicely related to the European Parliament of colleagues, the HDZ government as many women as there are in the SDP government of women. Don't impose on us. No one at the HDZ club in HDZ has anything against this proposal, no one at all, and that's what we're talking about. In 2008, you mentioned, and I will mention 2012 already you were in power. My colleague Nancy Tyrelli and we gave that article to the authentic interpretation you remember, and you see what she did, she did politics. No one from the SDP and the government gave a negative opinion, they just agreed to what it was in 2008 because it was not at all responsible for local elections. And you see I don't remember any of our presidents or presidents of HDZ who would come as your colleague Milanovic or your president came and told you women at the forum, be better, be smarter, be more cunning and everyone will forget that you are women. That's humiliating. We haven't heard that from Dr. Francis Tudjman or Eve Sanader or Mrs. Jadranka Kosor or Mr. Tomislav Karamark from anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90212	Thank you. My colleague Sobol's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90213	When you mention Dr Franjo Tudjman during his period of presidency, your party in this Croatian Parliament was between 4 and 7% of women, and in 2000 we jumped to almost 22%. And allow this section relating to SDP quotas, please compare and view women on SDP 2012 or women on HDZ lists, if you want to compare. And as for the interpretation of the law, the law did not say that those lists delayed the introduction of 40% quotas in local elections but delayed the payment of fines. And I've made it very clear to you how I feel about paying the fine, and I think it is, and at that time I stood up and today I believe that the most effective way to show political parties, but also any other list that will be drawn up by these or those citizens and citizens cannot be valid if the Law on Equality and Sexual Quotation of 40% is not respected, and then this applies to the Democratic Party of Women who are obliged then to include 40% of men on their lists, as the other parties will be obliged if we adopt 40%, at least 40% of both men and women on their lists. To me, the most honest and purest way of the ZIP system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90214	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90215	Thank you very much. When I listen to this, then I see a dictatorship that is truly totally unacceptable. There are no countries not in Europe but in the world, so you are in the SDP then greater than the Pope in democratisation of the so-called society that he has a ZIP system for elections, whether local or state. No country. Name me any country, tell me where it's applied, and it's gone. I'm surprised you don't have a female candidate for President of the Republic. Why doesn't the SDP have a candidate for the President of the Republic? Well, then vote for Colinda when you have the chance. Furthermore, in 2009 in the elections for the City Council of Slavonski Brod, I was the bearer of a list containing 15 women and 10 men. So there were 15 women and 10 men. So here are your accusations that you're saying are unnecessary. It's just that only one candidate or candidate passed, it doesn't matter which sex, but unfortunately only one has passed. It's not the same thing as running and passing. Just the preferential vote you're talking about, you say women have fewer chances, so look right at Ruža Tomasic, the pre-frontier vote was in the sixth place, she entered the European Parliament with 100,000 preferential votes. What are we talking about here? Therefore, candidates who say they are not similar but capable will always get the number of votes that, especially if we introduce a preferential vote and not only this minimum that you propose from one candidate but up to three candidates in the preferential vote Ultimate... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Zip system.../Speaker disabled./... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Time out, fellow Grubisic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90216	Answer me, fellow Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90217	My colleague Grubisic if you had been here in the hall and listened to my debate from the beginning to the end then you would have known what I said and about the preferential vote and you would have known what I said and how I was obvious to yours. I wasn't accusing you, I was just showing myself to the part where you were talking about us putting the women's quota first today, the sex quota, and in the country there's such an economic and social crisis. Then I'll do it again and then you'll hear what I've said. I believe that in times of economic, social and social crisis, no one has the right and the least of us sitting in this House to take away the possibility that half the population participates in the debates and decision-making, from solving the least of the problems to the most difficult state problems. That's my point of view, I stand for it, I think the most honest way is the Zip system. Whether or not someone has it but we have an example of countries that started with quotas, introduced mandatory quotas and introduced quotas to places where it was likely that women would enter their parliaments and after several election cycles they were no longer required.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90218	Next replica Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90219	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sobol, since you've called a little of us from HDZ and I agree when it comes to women, everything you've said. But I appreciate the parts, not the words. On Women's Equality Day as a SDP club, you relieved the board president of the most qualified woman that exists in your club in the field of health, in the field of science and placed a man far below. And if women were a more positive part of society, I don't dispute it, but I also say it publicly. Were women ever wolves from Wall Street? Never. Woman broker, so who saw it? So who made more mess in the world than them? Have women ever been directors of insurance companies or investment banks that led to this biggest and most devastating global crisis? Never. Were women the directors of Croatian societies that failed? Are women bankrupt managers? No matter what, it's scandalous. Has the woman ever been the director of the Kamenski power line Dalmatia wine KIO DIOKI and all those failed ones? Never. Are women tycoons? Did women participate in privatisation and tycoonisation? Did they raise the managerial loans? Never. And then that's how we treat them when we can show in action. That's a little hypocritical. For my associates, I've always preferred women rather than men because they'll never make a mess. Where are the women, are the women in Remetec for economic crime? No, they're not. Have women brought Croatia into this situation where we are? No, they're not. Yeah, well, one of them only owed 14% of the interest, but that's an exception for God's sake. But women, not women, men have brought Croatia into the path of impermeability and made Croatia a place of tragedy and we can then and when we can do what women deserve and then those who fight most are replacing them. Now, that's a little unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90220	Answer me, fellow Sobol, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90221	Thank you. I don't think I was the ultimate, I just worked out a proposal that came from my own club. So as you can see, the club has made one suggestion. I consider it a representative and a member of that club that this proposal can be worked out in a way that we can be credible to the end. counterpart Maric, interestingly for the first time that individual MPs have rebelled against the party decision of individual clubs on who will be led by some committees, who will be vice presidents, who will be members of the board, etc. And if I'm not mistaken, there was at least one unwritten rule in this House until this year. In your club, you place your functions on boards that you have received as an opposition, determine members or members of those committees. Did someone from this club get up during the debate and tell you why your former member, Jadranka Kosor, the first prime minister to come out of your ranks, that you kicked her out of the party and then she couldn't have been on any committee. I think this and the debate on women's quotas and elections for the Croatian Parliament have no place. I'll always be in the future, and I didn't object to you or ask you a question about replacing some parliamentary deputies and putting men in place. We didn't. We think it's a matter of your party, and of who you'll place in certain places within the constituency boards. It was one practice, but I see that somehow this year turns out to be no more. I will continue to advocate this practice and I think it's part of your internal relations and then let it be part of our internal relations and decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90222	Thank you. Mirela Holly, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90223	Thank you, Vice President. I'm even sorry that we're discussing this today. We have the Law on Gender Equality, and it should actually be absorbed. I don't know why we're even talking about the 40% representation of women on lists because it's a legal obligation under organic law. So I think we need to move on. And given the fact that Parliament seems to have a consensus on these issues, I am asking why we are not going towards parity democracy. Yeah, absolutely zip system and that zip system all over the list. So no 40% but 50%, because that's what sex belongs to. And on account of the fact that political parties can't do it, it's nonsense that doesn't exist. In all, in all 10 constituencies, we have 140 chairs or election seats. Therefore, political parties such as HDZ and SDP or other parties in Croatia cannot find 70 women who would be listed. Well, I think it's so humiliating that someone can even say it's something that's scary. So if there is political will, it can absolutely be done, but if there is no political will then today we in Parliament will discuss the same subject again in five months or five years. So let's start applying the law and go one step further, introduce real parity democracy, introduce a mandatory zip system so let's see, there'll be women on the lists, no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90224	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90225	My colleague Holly, thank you for your support because my debate went in the direction of that, okay, 40%, if it's law-abiding, it's law-abiding, but then that 40% should go in the zip system. You are now going one more step further in accordance with or almost in accordance with the Law on Gender Equality. But sometimes I think, in the end, I have to say, that in other times we were all so much louder about it, we might be able to work things out sooner and more together than we are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90226	Next replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90227	Thank you. So I think the idea of this debate was to ask for an agreement on amendments to electoral legislation. I have to say, as far as I'm concerned, and it's very likely that our club's pushing for feminist ideology will certainly not find any echoes. Thank you. [[Applause.]] It is not a question, and it is not a problem to find how MP Holly or 140 women said that we have a list of 100% women and all of them, but the problem is that on the lists there are those people who are both working for the party and for that list in the previous period actually need to be on that list, not whether we are going to find the person of this or that sex that will be on the lists. In the area where I live your party in cities, municipalities and counties do not represent women. You don't have a wife head of your party in the municipalities or in the cities or in the counties or in the... Well, of course there are exceptions here and there, but these are exceptions that are more or less well confirmed by the rule. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Not because you or we wouldn't want or break men or women, but because it's reality in that space. Those relationships that are so established and so are. It changes and gradually changes and really changes. But one thing is to draw up a list in Charlie, here for the centre of the city of Zagreb and another thing is to make a list in some, in Caglin or in some rural areas of Croatia. So there are different relationships between people and that reality you have to accept. Croatia is not the same in Charlie and Caglin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90228	Answer me, fellow Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90229	Comrade Djurovic, I was just yesterday in Caglin. And you know how many women have gathered there, capable women, women who have family holdings, women who live in Caglin, and work somewhere in a town? We are talking about parliamentary elections, co-worker Djurovic and what awaits us in a year and the lists we will draw up for parliamentary elections. And now I'm going to say it like this. Mr. Djurovic if your party cannot find 40% of the total number on those lists, so in the areas you cover in these few counties do not compete. Yes, here's my colleague, Boric. And that beginning of your feminist ideology of fellow Djurovic come on, please, if we need to give a list of literature so you can read and see what feminist ideology means. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90230	Thank you. Dragutin Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90231	Dear fellow Sobol, following this debate today all day on this subject and especially with your arguments made by defending 40% of women on the list for the representative body. First I had an idea, one suggestion. But if we're going to propose it, there's no way it can be adopted. And if we stick to the agreement that after this first reading we try to reach agreement in these five proposals and come, then there will be plenty of time. But because of the consistency of the attitude. It should be complemented and amended by the Government Act and also made a provision according to which 40% of women must be in the government. Because with the same criteria and arguments about women's right to decide, we must then apply to the government. How quickly I was able to see in the current government's four women. 40% would be at least 8. And I think you'll agree with me that the same arguments you're defending in the representative bodies must also apply to executive power. Then we are ultimately consistent with those arguments, the right possibilities and the ability of women to decide. And, on the other hand, by supplementing the Government Act, all future mandaters are also forced to respect that quota.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90232	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90233	Well, colleague Lesar, you see, perhaps many MPs and MPs were unaware of this fact when this law was passed on gender equality which is very clear and which speaks of the implementation of special measures. Equal participation of women and men in the works of legislative, executive and judicial authorities including public services will be promoted, as well as a gradual increase in sub-represented sex. We are discussing electoral legislation today, and in that sense, we are talking about the quota. We're talking about 40%. All the things that were heard further, so I'm going to repeat again about the ZIP system. It is also my personal endeavor to try as a parliamentary representative in this debate, and to keep it written and to be the same part of the platform. All that we've been saying today is part of tomorrow's table-session platform for all who have proposed electoral legislation and to see what can be agreed on, i.e. to eventually expand it to the entire Assembly. And of course it would be good and it would be desirable that in the future, I would say this is what I would say if we were to build the Law on Gender Equality into the legislative part that would necessarily be followed by the other part, and then that is the level of executive authority. But then the level of executive authority means that to you at all levels. But let's start with the state first, because it kind of seems to me that let me put it the most painless way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90234	And the last replica of Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90235	Thank you very much. Comrade Sobol, I have a feeling that we don't understand each other very well because you're imposing some kind of guilt on us about those quotas of yours for women. Okay, about the women's quotas on the lists, and you're making us pass the whole law through that. So we said let's talk, consensus reached without ultimatum. Let's open our questions, put them on the table so tell us we can't change this and this can, this can, so we'll choose. No, we'll only represent the quota, you have to be for it, then we drag everything under it inside. Well, it's past the law. If we're not into the law, then we're against the quota, so that's not true. I said you're proposing, we're having fun. I gave you an election analysis for the EU Parliament - 4 women, 2 men. You 1 woman, 3 men. And you're telling us that we're against odds, that we don't put women on lists, that we don't think like you, etc. But you can't discuss consensus in this way to tell us now one part of which we all agree, and in the overall part it turns out that we're voting against this law, because we can't reach a consensus on something that we want to do. And now I'm supposed to be against you, and I'm not. I once embarked on a debate in the Report of Gender Equality, and I said I never gave God any more, ever. A woman as long as she needs to be, be and be made of these lists. And how it's going to work out, I'm saying not this way, because you're pulling a part of us on a partial basis, and you're voting in total. If you're against the whole thing, then you're against the odds. Well, that's not how it works, at least with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90236	Answer, fellow Sobol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90237	For the European Parliament, Boric, HDZ two two, SDP one if we will look at it purely. Right? So, you've met 50% of the quota and we've met 50% of the quota, so much so that we can finish the story of the European Parliament. I don't know why you think that what I've been saying and maybe some more that it's ultimate. I, as a parliamentary representative, advocate, of course I advocate my club's proposal and give myself the right and freedom however you want me to take a step forward in an individual debate and put a bug in my ear. Whether you as a HDZ club will be for the whole law, a proposal that will eventually turn out, I have no idea whether or not the ZIP system will eventually pass, whether it will be one preferential, whether it will be three depends on the clubs, on the parties that will sit and what it will actually come up with in front of you. Because you didn't make the proposal in the form of a law. Now, whether this proposal will be acceptable to you completely, whether there are quotas in there or not, I can only guess now and what if there are quotas whether or not anything else will be completed. So, I think that today's debate shouldn't be considered an ultimate one, it's not what you take or leave, so it's an attempt to bring out our views through individual debates. Maybe tomorrow at the club or you or I don't know who has to swallow something, and you never know it. But I stand up and I really want and I try and get through the club and here at the plenary session to talk about the zip system. So now whether it goes or not I'll see it, we'll fight to get through.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90238	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Caroline Leakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90239	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's the debate today, in fact, the past seemed to me until about an hour ago in a very tolerated one, and I'd say a very democratic tone when it comes to this particular part that we've been discussing most in the last few hours, and that's the question of introducing birth quotas, but a few of these last replicas and answers kind of brought me back to me. So several election cycles when unfortunately in the Croatian Parliament could be heard more often, when it comes to women or gender representation. So we even came to the point that with some demeaning, we are now talking about feminist ideology as if feminism is something that should not be spoken about in public and as if it were not entirely legitimate and scientific discipline. And ultimately, access to politics. So today you have in the European Parliament a feminist party from Sweden who is represented there. So why not have a feminist approach to politics? This does not mean that we advocate that women or women's human rights be above some other human rights. Feminism is precisely one who advocates gender equality. But I'm not going to give a lecture on this, but only briefly because we've heard almost everything that's important today, and we've heard in some way support the introduction, but now in the Code of Election of Birth. It's not a girl's quota, it's a birth rate. So today it's the quota, in any case it refers primarily to the sub-represented sex, which is women in politics. But who knows for how many years it can also be a quota relating to the sub-represented sex of perhaps men in politics. We never know that. But not only in politics, so when we talk about birth quotas in some other professions and activities, we have heard from colleagues that men are already sub-represented in the judiciary, they are sub-represented in the education system like those who work in the education system, not those who manage it, because they are mostly rectors or decans, or so they are ultimately ministers. But I think we need to look at this big and wide picture when we're talking about quotas and not just thinking about the current council meeting, about the current government, because we're not passing this Electoral Law for the current assembly of parliaments, but about the future ones, and we're bringing it in so we don't have to change it over the next few years. What is very important is to also say that birth quotas are temporary incentive measures. So these aren't measures that are meant to be in force forever. Let's just say you have one Denmark that introduced these quotas back in the '70s and after here's 40 years of application, they recently left those quotas in politics because they realized what fellow Holly was talking about, and that's parity in representing Parliament or representative bodies. So they no longer need quotas, they have achieved equal or even representation of women and men in the Danish Parliament. The representation of equal women and men is not a question that is not political, for me it is one of the most important and top political or democratic issues. And it's not true that it's not a developmental issue at the same time. And it is not true what my colleague Grubisic said that it has nothing to do with the economy, that it has nothing to do with development and that it has nothing to do with therefore a society in which human rights are properly exercised both men and women. Research has shown in fact that those societies that are equally represented are both women and men in decision-making bodies of a society that is least unequal. And in doing so, how income is realised and how all other women's rights are achieved in relation to both gender stereotypes and education and employment, and then of course later and in the way women reach high positions in society. And how in fact the state helps certain mechanisms women to achieve in a successful way a certain level of professional representation... career but also what they want to become mothers and have a family. Moreover, in some developed Western European countries that we seek or what society we often call to actually be what we want to be, so Scandinavian countries, but today, and this is what someone mentioned earlier and in the management boards not only of state-owned companies, but also of private companies, and it is very important to ensure that there is also one particular birth quota, meaning balance in the representation of women. These are facts and these trends are actually easily verifiable. Without these temporary incentive measures, therefore no birth quotas have been achieved in any country in itself. Therefore, it is not in those Scandinavian countries that we often refer to as a model that has not been preceded by the struggle, if you want the fight of conscious women and men and progressive women and men outside of the narrow political spectrum, so outside political parties in NGOs, in unions, but it was also crucial to adopt and prescribe certain temporary measures such as birth quotas in the Electoral Law as well as in many other laws that regulate this area. It is not those who have power in their own hands, which are mostly men, nor in Scandinavia so benevolent that, without pressure, they leave a certain level of rights or a certain level of women's positions, and that should actually be the point of leadership for all of us who are on this progressive side and who are behind the birth quotas, and who are favouring greater representation of women in politics. So, it's a political decision, and in this sense, political participation is not a question of the goodwill of those who, like colleagues, speak, so let's keep these women on the lists, so here's how much it takes. This is not in any case the right approach, but the question of value and the question of what kind of society we really want to create, what kind of society we want to live in. I touched on the current morning with my question of one of the important problems or issues facing women in the Republic of Croatia today but also in some other European countries, and we can therefore say in general that at EU level there is also one, one retrograde approach to women's rights, so that there is some way of reducing the levels of women's rights already achieved and therefore in some way returning women to so-called women. Their natural contamination, which would mean closing up in that private sphere or pulling into, how I, not just myself, but as they already defined it somewhere in the 90s, many feminist theorists and in our country. So let's go back to that hearth that a woman allegedly needs to guard while a man earns and brings home income. So today we have been talking all day about how in some way power in politics or the power of choice must be returned to citizens and citizens to a greater extent by allowing them also to decide by their preferential voice who will properly represent them in the Croatian Parliament. And we absolutely seem to all agree that these relations must be changed and that citizens and citizens should be given an additional incentive in fact to regain confidence in the institutions of representative parliamentary democracy because unfortunately, and not only in Croatia, I repeat, but in other EU countries, citizens and citizens no longer have confidence in institutions. The person has a bad reputation for Parliament. It is visible, however, especially at the end of this debate that, of course, there are certain ideological, secular differences between us, and I am fully expected to do so. However, I am extremely pleased that from the HDZ club, as far as we can see, signals are coming in order to vote this way on the birth rate as a temporary measure. But I think the fact that it's a temporary measure and that what we need to strive for is actually what Mirela Holly was talking about, and that's parity democracy 50% and, of course, this ZIP system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90240	Time. Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Hope Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90241	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague, I've been listening to this debate the whole time, and somehow I've been libied into it because it seems to me that we've all said everything about this birth, birth, and general gender equality. And there's the impression that somehow we all think alike, but there's always one. In fact, maybe I was just offered a sentence where you said that there was a sub-representation of men in certain occupations, you mentioned the judiciary to the workplaces. I don't think there's any sub-representation of men in some judicial professions in judges, or in those professions that are more difficult. I mean, it's politics and where the power is, and where the money is, it's the world of men. It's not a criticism of our country or our people or our mentality, it's just like that, and we've all done a lot together. There are no signals that this will change from your side anymore from our less. I think that's what we're all trying to do together. Somewhere on a list, it may have been better done or what you said was tradition is that there are bigger parties, so the parties that have a concentration in the cities, so they have a bigger choice and women and also quality men on the lists, and we agree that this quota should be a tendency and a tendency. Our colleague Maric had a good intention where he said there were no women in those places, very important, very important where there was a lot of money, it wasn't just because women in such places were not allowed, it's I repeat the world of men. If women were to manage better, I believe that only because we have this little female note of caution in that policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90242	Thank you. Final sentence, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90243	And she wouldn't take this to any party, and there's no other party. And there's something else, just let me, what Mrs. Sobol said, and she might swallow something in her club and we'll eat everything in her club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90244	Boro... You didn't pick up the plate. Here's your answer, but you need to respond to the replica during the presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90245	Yeah, well, I know, I know, but I've been focusing on my colleague's exposure, so I'm not, I'm sorry, I'm not gonna do it again. So we agree that it's about power relations, of course it's politics, it's a field of fighting for power, but we come to that issue of glass ceiling that someone has pointed out today, so the more we climb, the less women and I actually see the key role of the state in ensuring conditions for young women, that women who want to advance academically, who want to engage in science, who want to deal with perhaps not traditionally in the fields of women, so whether they're dealing with computerism, electrical engineering, engineering, etc., can also, in the same way under the same conditions as their colleagues, and at the same time achieve themselves in all other fields that are important to them, so family and private life, and in fact, we can agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90246	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90247	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Caroline, your exposure exclusively referred to this article of your proposal on equality, let me say, gender equality on the lists of candidates. On the preferential vote, there was not a single word about it, but I must say, since you called me by the name and last name in your explanation, that your colleague said that 69% of the judges, or the judge, were employed in the Republic of Croatia, of all those in the judiciary, and that the presidents were mostly men. So who chooses the presidents of the courts? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Furthermore, school principals and teachers and school teachers weigh those who are female, but the principal is elected by the teaching council amongst others, has... The school council, I'm sorry, but in which teachers have their share, too. [[The intruders can't be heard.]] So again why they choose a man, I don't know. Maybe you can explain it to me. And the assumption that a woman would be better at those places that counterpart Maric spoke of where many companies were destroyed, so the directors of companies, public companies and everything else is just a guess. We have cases where it didn't work when the woman was. I'd like to, I'd like to personally have them more at those functions just assuming they're talking about... and all of you who talked about it because I personally believe that... and more honestly would do your job than those who messed up in the sense that Mr. Maric was talking about, so they liked Remetinca, etc. But it's just a guess. In order to do that, we don't have to do it ultimately, not to say repressive measures in the law, and I don't know what to do with...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90248	Thank you, colleague Grubisic. Replication response, here you go, comrades.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90249	Thank you. Here, fellow Grubisic, you keep trying to blame women for not having women in high places, in the judiciary that they are not in high places, in schools, so it's not exactly like that, you know. It's not just women who choose women. Otherwise, it's not just women who vote for women. Well, there are women in Croatia that I wouldn't vote for, like some other women wouldn't vote for me, so we don't just vote for this birthright, but we do vote for it anyway, by which ideological or... camp we belong, I mean, that's quite clear. Compared to what counterpart Maric said, you still have to discuss it with him, but I would like to see, therefore, in practice that it would really seem that the situation was different, and otherwise I do not, so in those who think that women would do more ideally or better than men do some work, and Priors. But I also don't support those who think that they can't do it just because they're women. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90250	Miss twilight, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90251	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I would say this, if these discussions were afternoon, here so far, much healthier and much more honest. You don't like them, you said you didn't like this last hour, an hour and a half, that you didn't like it, but believe me, they weren't even honest from before noon, they weren't as healthy and they weren't as argumentative, they were debates for others, for the media, for the populist debates. That's one thing, here's what I wanted to warn you, or tell you what I wasn't happy to hear. Then you mentioned that in the context of... progressive, maybe it's stupid that I'm reacting to it at all because then I'll think we're not progressive if I'm saying it at all, so you can even forget it because I think we're quite progressive here, we've done a lot, really, I'm going to be talking only inside HDZ, at all levels, especially when it comes to women's rights, but also at all other levels. And it's what I agree with you, but in one way, my colleague tried to say it, and I said the same thing in Parliament once last year or before last year, and I said the following, the problem is with us women. You know, the feminists, and you might know better, I just touched that literature and read something and watched, were then tremendously solidarity it didn't matter which, is it coming from which group it came from at all from which level it rises were solidarity. We women today are not solidarity and this is a fact, neither you within the SDP nor we within the HDZ nor within any party are solidarity and there is a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90252	Thank you, comrade twilight. ... Comrade Leakovic, please choose your answer. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Comrade twilight time please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90253	Here's when we spoke... I didn't mean just this side of the assembly, but all the colleagues and colleagues who discussed today in this direction supporting birth quotas in that sense I spoke. And when we talk about this female solidarity, there's a lot of talk about it in general at various levels and on various occasions and trying to impute women that they're not solidarity among themselves enough and that they're more solidarity to make things better. But I think it's also one of the very perfidious pranks. So again, we're trying to somehow blame ourselves for not always being on all issues of solidarity. I think there should be a certain level of solidarity in both this Parliament and between men and women when it comes to how women's rights are discussed and even gender equality, but also many other rights that apply to women. But I don't want to always be one of the biggest problems when we talk about women in politics or the general status of women to be calling for a lack of female solidarity because it won't help us and only I think it will lead us in one completely different direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90254	That concludes the debate. On behalf of the promoter, would anyone like to take your word for it? No, I don't. He's a colleague of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90255	I'm not gonna use five minutes, but three sentences. No, I don't want five minutes. So my experience is much more positive than what I expected and it fills me with satisfaction. Secondly, it has proved that we have found several common denominators in today's debate and it would be optimal for us to agree on five laws and to point out common denominators and agree on them. And thirdly, I think we're in a paradoxical and worrying situation. We've been discussing something that's legally defined for a very long time, and we're discussing the rights of a half-breeding majority of the population, and if we can't agree on that, I don't know what we can agree on, at the level of principle and at the level of performance. And thirdly, I would be pleased if those common denominators that we have expressed today were actually made together and decided positively about them. I didn't experience any ultimatums, except maybe one but not to mention it now, but if we can agree on what we have in common, and for that to stand together, I personally really care very much about it and that this law or these changes of law are passed by consensus or as close to consensus as I think we're going to do a great job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90256	Thank you very much. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90257	I join the impressions of my colleague Flege on the quality of the debate and I point out my faith that these common denominators that we have discussed can lead to an agreement. Doesn't mean he'll bring it. I'd like it to come to that. And I hope that what I'm about to say will not be assessed as a turning point, and in the debate on behalf of the motionary, I have announced this possibility that happened today. As of today, two hours ago, Croatia has one legal precedent when a measure of banning the exercise of activity has been imposed by the court decision of one official. So the new practice in the court procedure has been obtained today and we must take this into account fellow Flego and those provisions on the ban on running because theoretically it can happen that there are extraordinary elections somewhere while this measure is still in force and then we would be in an absurd situation so that someone can run, and after the election there is a judicial ban on doing activity. So it's something completely new that we haven't had so far. And secondly, I have been appealing to representatives of the ruling coalition without any intention of fooling around, debauchery or politics, in the past few years we've all had stomach cramps when it happened, I'm talking about local, regional and state-owned, we ended up in investigative prisons, we've been inaccessible to the Croatian judiciary, and now this new moment when they have a court order to perform their activities. We in no law but for civil servants alone, we have no regulated their rights stemming from the right to receive and other material rights. State officials are prescribed, for example, if they end up in a prison of investigation have the right to 60% salary, a private sector worker gets fired after five days, has not come to work. Only for state officials, local and regional there is no provision in any law that would say what with his rights then. I think it's inadmissible for an officer who's in the investigative prison to be inaccessible to the judiciary or has this measure of banning his activities to exercise all rights as if he's at work. In view of this new practice, I think it would be extremely useful for the government to respond urgently to the additions or changes of existing laws so that all together don't have to blush when the public and the citizens start to question the problem again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90258	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90259	What a proverb it is to correct it wrong, so I'll fix it for you. I agree with what you said at the beginning, but now we're talking about employees and tenants and every employee in the state and private sector who's in custody belongs to him by law half of his income when he's in custody or away from work and if convicted, he's been convicted for more than six months then he automatically loses his employment relationship. Therefore, every worker, every employee, every tenant, if he is in custody or is away from a powerful verdict, has the right to half of his income.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90260	Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90261	I must and react, I hope that in the ruling coalition you will not decide on my proposal. So for civil servants and tenants it's 60% and if it supports children, 80% of the salary. And find me a private sector worker who didn't get fired after five days of not getting to work because of detention. But let's let it go. I have warned of the problem of the regional state official and there is no legislative solution locally, for which 50% of the salary is not prescribed. It's full of pay. If a parliamentary representative, a member of the government, another official, mayor, mayor or mayor of the municipality ends up in a prison of investigation for 12 months, he receives a full salary of 12 months. It's no longer acceptable. Now we have a new moment, so it's not an investigative prison, it's not a condition for resolution because it's a powerful verdict, but it's a judicial decision to ban activities. So he can't do the mayor's work. Is he entitled to full pay? We don't have a legislative solution. I appeal for an emergency procedure to fix it, to regulate it, not to be ashamed anymore. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90262	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the proposals of these laws later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u90263	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 675. Proposer of the law is a respected representative of Natalija Martincevic. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. First, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament is adopted, which is proposed by the respected representative Natalija Martincevic. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I confirm that most votes, 94 votes in favour, 18 abstentions and nothing against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91448	Now, according to the agreement, we're going to combine the following two points: 9. Proposal for a bill on election units to elect representatives to the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 692 – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers – Labour parties; You received the proposal. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply in the adoption of this Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the report at the session. Ten. Proposal for a bill on election units to elect representatives to the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 737 – Proposer of the IDS Advocacy Club; You have received the proposal. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. And you received reports at the session. The first draft of the law will explain on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, a colleague of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91449	Thank you very much, dearly respected colleagues of the vice president, MPs and MPs. Today, in the debate on election legislation, many MPs mentioned and claimed that there would have been no civil initiative that triggered the idea of a civil referendum on the electoral model. They too were declared responsible for the fact that we were discussing it and that the parties had begun to think about it. Our Proposal for a Law on Election Units, which, of course, is not true, and I will prove it now, our Proposal for a Law on Election Units has been published a month and a half before this citizens' initiative has its referendum issue. And when you read their referendum question in that part of the number of MPs and selecting by election units, then you will easily see who served on whose proposal. So this splendor of this citizens' initiative and declaring the merits they put the topic on the agenda of the media, they excited the public, they interested the citizens but that they were the cause of this debate as far as we're concerned. Why did the Croatian Labour Club consider it necessary to propose a law? To finally open the debate because in the existing Law on Elections, the election of MPs, therefore, there is a provision in the Law on Elections that the number of voters per constituency should not be more than plus, minus 5% and that, when determining election units, the areas of election units should be respected as much as possible and the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. This provision of the law was not sufficient all the time and after the adoption of the existing Law on Election Units to intervene either in one or in another law. It could have been deleted from the Electoral Law or adapted to those provisions, but no government proposed corrections. In December 2010, this problem was addressed by the Constitutional Court, so they also refer to and warn the Parliament that an existing solution is not legal, that there was an unequal weight of the electoral vote in the constituencies they consider unacceptable, and that even by drawing a map of election units, the principle of maximum respect was not respected wherever territorial integrity is possible. And we could pretend silly that we don't even know about this Constitutional Court document and keep quiet about it, don't suggest anything. We thought the government would make that proposal, but it didn't. The current election units are set so that, for example, the city of Zagreb is divided into 4 constituency units, Zagreb County in 4, Split-Dalmatia in 2, Primorje-goranska if I am not wrong in 3 or 2. Is that good? Just for example, the City of Zagreb is proof that when the City of Zagreb is being torn into a number of electoral units, it comes to the so-called city of Zagreb. Metropolisation and that is why we have 45 representatives from the City of Zagreb today, which I hope no one will say is good. So to get equal weight of the voter vote and to respect the territorial structure and integrity of the municipalities, cities and counties, we offered to divide Croatia into 6 constituencies. We could've been 8, we could've been 10, that's the number 10 that's now staying and going. But I'm going to say that we didn't go to 8, 10 or 12 because we applied the method of weighting the number of mandates in the election units, depending on the number of voters and with more election units, the difference in the number of MPs that would be chosen in a particular constituency would be too large. Our model implies or predicts that at least 20 to 26 MPs are elected in the constituency, which is the largest number of eligible ones, i.e. the calculation is simply the number of voters in each constituency. So according to our proposal, the City of Zagreb would choose 26 MPs as a single constituency, in 2 would be Međimurska, Krapina-Zagorska, Varazdinska, Koprivnica-križevanja and Bjelovarsko-bilogorska with 22, in 3. Zagrebačka, Sisakko-moslavačka, Karlovačka with 20, in 4. Virovitica, Požeška, Brod-Posaviska, Osijek-Baranja, Vukovar-Srijemska with 26 at 5. Sibenik-Kninska, Split-Dalmatia, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska with 22 and 6. Istarska, Primorje-goranska, Lika-senjska and Zadarska with 24 MPs. There were parts of the civil sector and experts who felt that instead of the number of voters in determining election units should take the number of inhabitants. We tried to simulate this model on that population data and when we put that data in the table a derogation or difference of mandates per election unit when we took the number of voters and the number of residents is in two constituency units. So you wouldn't radically change much if you took the population. 26,873 voters per term would be on average, so 26,873 voters would be on average. The deviation from that average of 1002 voters and 3.6%, not more than 3.6%, respectively. If our proposal with 6 electoral units that led to the same vote after the weighting is equal, it will be equally considered with another proposal from the IDS colleagues, which ends the existing electoral units, not using the weighting model but staying with the provision to elect 14 MPs in election units. So if these two proposals are trying to get to one, we will participate in this attempt but I have to show the fact that models that carry in them a continuation of metropolisation, which really unnaturally share electoral units, and for representatives who co-operate with representative bodies understand that if they do not have their own area which is identical to the county area it is quite difficult, then there will be a problem in that agreement just meeting this second criterion that the law prescribed. As with the first subject and the first point, the very fact that the proposals are drawn up by representatives clubs and that we try to reach an agreement is a step forward, I would say good that can come to an agreement, and I think the worst thing is that we do nothing and we don't change anything and leave things like so far, ignoring and the fact that this would be if I didn't cheat the fourth election cycle by election units that don't comply with the provisions of the law. This is briefly the content of the proposal, the reasons and the arguments, that is how we came to these six constituencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91450	On behalf of the proposer of the Law Club of IDS Representative Valter Boljunčić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91451	Thank you. Good evening, everyone! Here's what the predecessor said we went out with a proposal of election units. On the trail of what we have put forward today about the Election Law, we think that in the last year there should be no significant change in some things, but if it is possible to force them to comply with the law that says that this is plus a minus five percent difference from the smallest and largest to the middle. At this point, we have 10 or 12 electoral units. So 11th and 12th are for diaspora and national minorities. Our proposal consists of allowing everyone, because he says as much as possible to follow the borders of the county. It does not specifically say that they must be monitored, so in our proposal it remains these 10 electoral units, with certain parts of the border moving from one constituency to another. I wouldn't read it now, let's keep it as it has been. For example, the first constituency includes the complete three areas of Vukovar-Srijemska, Brod-Posaviska, Požeko-Slavonska. For example, the areas of Osijek-Baranja, Virovitica and Podravska and part of the area of Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska, cities such as Daruvar, Dežanovac, Djulovac, Gareshnica, Grubisno Polje, etc. So it's about the situation for the edges to move from one constituency to another. That's how we get, so with ten electoral units where the deviation is plus, minus one percent of the average. The largest constituency has 1,017 of average. So there are 38,000 voters, and the smallest unit has 0.99. So 371,000. So it's definitely a condition that plus minus five percent of the average. Furthermore, in this way the electoral law we had today remains therefore electoral lists with 14 MPs on each of the lists. The division of smaller constituencies where votes would be weighted as we heard in the earlier proposal also holds mathematical water. However, sometimes it is important to see that the electoral unit is not only made up of residents, but also a distance from space. So, in one Zagreb, it is not a big problem for tram to come from the east to the west, so from Chernomerc to Dubrava, but let's say in this constituency where Istria would be, therefore, the electoral unit moves from Pula, from Savudrija, to Zadar, Gospić, etc. So I think you should consider that, too. Because first of all, the technology itself, then the choice in such a single area, the creation of a list of 25 members, is quite contradictory with what we are talking about today, and that is the desire to choose people by name and last name, that is to make MPs as close as possible to the election base. I don't think it can come into one mind, if I say someone from Pula has to go to Zadar or Gospić or vice versa. So I believe that the proposal is somewhat contradictory to what is desired, which is to be more direct to electing MPs to the Parliament. At this point, if we're going to do so, I think that this is how a split into five, six, seven electoral units would be okay if the long-term decentralization law started, and that would mean a lot of maybe a change, and even maybe a change in the composition of Parliament as we had once had a chance to change the Constitution to hear one-home or two-home and similar things as we used to have. So we believe that this proposal can, with the slightest effort, lead to the fulfillment of the constitutional, i.e. A legal standard that the Constitutional Court ruled should differ by plus minus five percent. Now, today we heard 30, we measured about 27%, 27% between the largest and the smallest, which means 4 mandates. When we talked about constitutional changes recently, four mandates on one side or the other meant whether or not the Constitution would change. So it's not exactly this harmless problem of a four-term gap between the two constituencies. There have been other examples, let's just say that going to the county with a weighted number of votes, but since one of the smallest ones, Lička has 50,000 that would be a maximum of 25000 per MP would lead to a significant increase in the number of MPs, or should otherwise be corrected. Here's to short. We've sent this proposal, so with calculations we've sent it right to the Ministry of Administration to check it out. As for this, we have also taken the number of voters, but as has been said before, I think it is even logical that the number of inhabitants is taken but the deviations when the number of inhabitants is taken are insignificant so that essentially the same division would be valid in that case. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91452	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, he was to speak to his colleague Davorin Mlakar, not present and loses his right to debate at this point. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91453	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, the SDP MPs' club in first reading will support both of these proposals. The reason for that is very simple. These proposals are part of the package, for example in the case of a proposal from the Croatian Labour Club to amend the Election Law would be impossible if the Law on Election Units was not changed as well as the Law on Election Units of the Future Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers, but in the Electoral Law provides for a reduction in the number of election units to 6. We at the Club of Representatives of the SDP are aware of the legal provisions, we are aware of the warnings of the Constitutional Court and we are aware that something must be done on this matter. In this context, we are also aware of the fact that there is an unequal electoral right in different constituencies, and that unfortunately today in Pula, Varazdin, Osijek and Dubrovnik the voice is not worth the same. In this context, we will support as I have already mentioned these proposals, we will support the debate on them and I believe that through the agreements that we will implement after tomorrow we support the amendments to the electoral laws that would satisfy all of us, satisfy Croatian citizens and lead to the same vote in every part of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91454	Do the final words of the promoters want? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91455	Proposal for a bill on election units to elect representatives to the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 692. Proposer of the law is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers – Labour parties in the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the draft law is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A proposal for a bill on election units to elect representatives to the Croatian Parliament proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers – Work Party, and secondly, any objections to proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please vote on the proposal for this conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 89 votes in favour, four abstentions and 18 votes against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91466	We move to - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, first reading, P.Z. No. 706; The legislator is representatives of Jadranka Kosor, Josip Kregar and Iron Srecko Flego. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the report at the session, and the introduction of the bill will explain colleague Iron Srecko Flego. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91467	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'll try to be very brief. This amendment of the law brings two newspapers. One is that financial operations in pre-election campaigns must also be published on websites, so that a financial form is introduced to be filled in on specific donations and specific costs and published on websites or parties running from candidates or independent candidates. And secondly, that all these electronic reports are united in one place, most likely in the DIP, so that anyone reviewing those reports can find out or compare the reports and find out what a candidate has received, which is what he spent instead of searching for different websites or on different publications of that data. It is the only change, or two changes, and I hope that they will be acceptable to all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91468	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Peja Grbin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91469	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In line with what was said on the Committee on the Constitution and what we discussed at the club, I will try to explain why the SDP Representatives Club cannot support this proposal. First of all, let's be clear about the good direction, we support absolutely this idea, and we want the future of the Law on the financing of political activity and pre-election promotions to publish office reports exactly in a way that no longer publishes them individually on candidate websites, they can do so if they want to, but that they are united on the DIP's website. In order for the DIP to become a central service where, apart from the election results, you will see today, you have an archive of all elections of Croatian independence, that, apart from voting data and votes, information about the financing of political campaign actors is also published. However, this solution is not complete. For what? It's just talking about the electronic pattern. However, it does not have all those procedures that are needed by the DIP in order to be able to follow such a pattern later. This is not my arbitrary assessment, this is precisely about the position of the DIP which addressed it to all the members of the Constitutional Committee and pointed to problems with this bill although it generally accepts its intensity and direction. In this context, the SDP Representatives' Club proposes that we do not now adopt this law but that, through a comprehensive amendment to the Finance Act that is coming to us and which is now being prepared at the Ministry of Administration, we address the problem, among other things and in the direction in which the proposings in this proposal have been respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91470	Would you like the closing word, colleague Flego? I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91471	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, first reading, P.Z. No. 706. Proposers are representatives: Jadranka Kosor, Josip Kregar and Iron Srecko Flego. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, I am voting on the following conclusion: "It is not accepted to propose a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion proposed by representatives of Jadranka Kosor, Josip Kregar and Iron Srecko Flego for the reasons set out in the report of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system." Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. It is found that the majority of votes were 92 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 14 votes against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91472	We will discuss - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Election Commission, first reading, P.Z. No. 707; The legislator is representatives of Jadranka Kosor, Josip Kregar and Iron Srecko Flego. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Also, counterpart Gvosden Srecko Flego will initially explain the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91473	Madam Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues based on our election experiences, we were of the opinion that it would be optimal for the DIP to be professional and not on occasion, and that it would be a permanent body and that we could therefore monitor elections on different grounds to prepare elections in a different way and organise an election and pre-election situation differently than it was so far. As you know, the State Election Commission consists of judges of the Supreme Court. So the president of the State Election Commission is the Supreme Court Judge, the Supreme Court President and some other members. As the chairman of the board will likely tell you on this proposal, the reaction was quite severe on the one hand by the State Election Commission. And I hope that we might be able to find some common language, and here our proposal was in order to work more intensively on elections and election preparations as well as in other analyses, so on post-election work and on the issues that elections bring with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91474	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of SDP representative Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91475	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I must apologize because I will now have to be something longer than the promoter. The SDP Representatives Club, which you could also see from the report of the Constitution Committee which did not support the adoption of this law, can neither do it now at the plenary session, or we consider that it is not a good amendment that we consider to be going in the right direction. First of all, this proposal has two alternatives. The first alternative speaks only about the change of those professions that could be included in the State Election Commission. The second alternative spoke about the full disposal of the Supreme Court judges from the State Election Commission. Now let's take the turn. The National Election Commission in Croatia consists of 3 groups of members and it has a permanent assembly. We have 3 members of the National Election Commission coming from the ranks, we have 3 members of the National Election Commission who are proposing the opposition and had 3 members of the State Election Commission of the President and two vice-presidents who come from the ranks of judges and are elected by the General Session of the Supreme Court. These 3 members of the State Election Commission guarantee the impartiality of the State Election Commission. I don't think it's acceptable at a time when citizens have confidence in the work of the State Election Commission, when it does its job well, when it does the same way with the participation of the judges at lower levels and at lower levels portrays one such impartiality, I don't think it's necessary to touch that composition in a way that the judge can get out of it. Part two, when it comes to the question of waist. The State Election Commission is primarily a body which must be arbitration in certain electoral disputes. It is generally in the Republic of Croatia as well as in other countries that legal professions are arbitration in disputes. But I'm letting you know we don't have to be right. However, as I have noted, we foresee amendments to the Law on the financing of political activity and pre-election promotion. One of the amendments to that law should be the withdrawal of political bodies in that system, so the Committee on the Constitution and the representative bodies of the units of local self-government and regional self-government should be entitled to sanction political actors who violate the law among other funding laws. We in the SDP know exactly what it looks like. Given that we predict that the DIP becomes a parajudicial body, a body which, instead of infringing courts and political authorities, will judge and impose large administrative sanctions, we consider that in these new circumstances only what, like all other judicial authorities, should remain not only professionally, but also that the other members of that body are lawyers in order to ensure its smooth and quality work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91476	You want the closing word? Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91477	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Election Commission, first reading, P.Z. No. 707. Lawmakers are representatives and advocates, respected Jadranka Kosor, Josip Kregar and Iron Srecko Flego. The debate on the draft law is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Election Commission proposed by representatives of Jadranka Kosor, Josip Kregar, Iron Srecko Flego for the reasons set out in the Report of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Please vote on this Opinion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that by a majority of 90 votes, 7 abstentions and 15 votes against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91478	And we will also discuss - Proposal for a Decision on the grounds of the motion for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative "On behalf of the family" – Proposer of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply when making a decision. You received the report at the session. And the chairman of the board of colleagues, Peja Grbin, will explain the decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91479	Thank you. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that the Croatian Parliament will issue a referendum in accordance with the law if it is required by 10% of the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia. On 22 October 2014, the President of the Croatian Parliament received a request from the citizens' initiative "In the Name of the Family" to call a referendum on the amendments to the Constitution in a way that changes the Constitution in the work that applies in the way of holding elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The initiative also provided signatures, 380 649 voters requesting a referendum. Following receipt of such a request, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament shall be as a parent working body on the basis of its competence as referred to in Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament must also determine whether the assumptions for the opening of the referendum have been met. As the citizens' initiative has been said, the referendum's calling was requested by 380 649 voters, which is more than 10% of the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia. Such a number, in accordance with the usual parliamentary practice, still needs to be checked before the competent authorities, i.e. the Ministry of Administration and others who have so far in cooperation with the ministry carried out a signature check. Regarding the amendment we received, this is not a definitive number of signatures. If the Constitutional Court makes a decision, it is apparent that a relatively sufficient number of signatures will only be followed by a verification of credibility as we have done so many times. However, the Constitutional Committee, as a proposal for this act, believes that the number of 380 649 voters does not represent 10% of the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia. According to the Ministry of Administration, a total of 4 million 527 thousand 129 citizens were registered in our country on 05 October 2014. Today I had the opportunity to listen to the debate and I am very sorry that certain colleagues do not understand the basic concepts and fundamental differences between being citizens and being residents. The number of 4 million 527 thousand 129 citizens does not refer to the population of the Republic of Croatia. The number of inhabitants is determined by the census, i.e. by the Ministry of the Interior, and hopefully we are aware that some of these inhabitants are not citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Some citizens of EU Member States have the right to participate in the political life of the Republic of Croatia, for example by participating in local elections or in elections for the European Parliament, and they are not part of those inhabitants, nor are they citizens of the EU Member States, so they do not participate in the political life of the Republic of Croatia. I also hope that we are all aware that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia may also be someone living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, while the current article 45, paragraph 1, is in force. The Constitution, it is prescribed that just about all Croatian citizens from 18 years of age, regardless of where they live, have general and equal voting rights in elections for the Croatian Parliament, the Presidents of the Republic of Croatia and the European Parliament, and in the decision-making process in accordance with the law. Although it is personal for me and for most committee members who participated in the debate that the number of 10% voters must be determined in accordance with Article 45(1). The constitution, in public, appears the thesis that this is not true. Therefore, and in order to put forward a fixed number of voters who need to support a citizen's initiative, to remove any doubt as to the support needed to call the referendum, the Constitutional Committee proposes that the Croatian Assembly, in accordance with Article 95, remove any doubts about the support required for the opening of the referendum. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia shall require the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia to determine whether the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) to (3) have been fulfilled. The Constitution for calling a state referendum on the basis of the requirements of the citizens' initiative "On behalf of the family". More detailed reasons for such a request... are given in the explanation of the motion for a decision that has been delivered to you. Before I finish my presentation, allow me one comment on this initiative. Last year, when it was not doubtful that their initiative was supported by more than 10% of voters, the representatives of the initiative on "In the Name of the Family" insisted that the report include 36 list books of voters without residence in the Republic of Croatia. They did not mind, at the time, either that these voters supported the referendum, nor that both the committee and the ministry and the government and the parliament and the voters counted in the total number of voters who supported the initiative. They're in trouble today. Furthermore, before the start of the signing ceremony for this concrete referendum, the initiative's representatives publicly said they needed at least 430,000 signatures because it represents 10% of voters in the Republic of Croatia. When they didn't collect that number, they changed the board. Therefore, in order to remove any doubt about the number of signatures required, the Constitution Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament that, in accordance with Article 95. The Constitutional Law, and in the spirit of the Constitutional Court's decision of 13 January 2014, adopts this proposal and asks the Constitutional Court to decide on the matter in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91480	I'm opening a debate on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91481	This afternoon, the three representatives of the HDSB came to the clubs for a proposal from the Committee on the Constitution, and I will propose to my club to support this proposed amendment to the decision of the Constitutional Committee and I will not enter into the dispute in the number of signatures needed for the referendum initiative to be valid, but I will remind myself of the following. So far, we have always had an unwritten rule and practice, written nowhere, that first it went to the control of the number of signatures, and then the Parliament could make a decision to call a referendum or to refer the question to the Constitutional Court and so we did. On several occasions, I have suggested that we work at the same time and control the number of signatures and ask for a constitutional assessment if it is disputed to someone in the Assembly and it was said that this is not possible because of the provision of Article 95. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court because it stipulates that the Constitutional Court can be addressed in the case, and only in the case of 10% voter signatures. It was an argument as to why we first go to control and then question the constitutionality of the issues. This time we are on the board and with my vote for, to be open to the end, we decided to go before the Constitutional Court asking whether the assumptions for the opening of the referendum were met without the control of the number of signatures collected, accepting the fact that 380 thousand signatures were submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament. Is the question of the number of necessary signatures is in the Assembly between the clubs of MPs and parliamentary representatives or in public? Indeed, where is this doubt present? On the Committee on the Constitution, I do not believe that of all the members present and all the members of the Committee on the Constitution there were doubts, as well as in the practice so far, how many signatures. It seems to me that this procedure is now addressing the Constitutional Court directly, in fact, only to make it cut off the question of the number of signatures needed for political reasons we are not ready in the Chamber, but we leave it to the Constitutional Court. Therefore, the proposed amendment which improves the text of the decision in Article 1 which, or proposes, suggests that the Constitutional Court shall at the same time request a decision on whether a referendum question has been offered in accordance with the Constitution and whether all the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) have been fulfilled. ... The Constitution is a complete solution because then the Constitutional Court in one decision can decide everything. Answer the question whether the question is allowed and whether all assumptions for holding such a referendum have been created. If we could not do so, we could come to the next situation, that after the Constitutional Court's decision we would have to carry out a verification of the number of signatures, the Assembly would re-determin and decide and then the question of the permission of the proposed referendum issue could be raised in that debate, which means that we would go to the Constitutional Court again to re-examine or determine whether the question is allowed. And by this brief amendment to the text of the decision, I think the Parliament is fully questioning the Constitutional Court's permission to ask questions and to answer the question of how many signatures it is necessary to collect for a state referendum. And it's true that after that decision, all the doubts, the debates and the tensions would have gone away. As far as the applicant's argument on the number of signatures in the amendment to the amendment is concerned, we have some reserves here, but this is an explanation. I believe that the text of the amendment offered improves the Parliament's decision at the moment when, instead, we leave it to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91482	Peja Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91483	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, I personally don't think a sufficient number of signatures have been collected. However, there were members at the board's meeting, though external, who claimed that 4 million 527 thousand were not the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia, so there were persons, participants, board members who claimed that this was not the total number. If the Parliament had refused to call a referendum, and this committee could not have done so by the Parliament, we would still have a procedure before the Constitutional Court, which would have started someone else, we would have tensions, we would have questions, we would have a fight in public. I personally considered it necessary, and today I think it should have been avoided. If the Constitutional Court says that 380 thousand signatures are enough we'll have a regular procedure, whether you or I do it or not, we'll carry out the procedure the way we have to. So, the question of formal regularity can and must be solved immediately, the measure does not, the measurement comes after the formal correctness of the request is determined. These are the fundamentals of the procedural right of each and every one of them, both litigious and criminal and administrative and each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91484	Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91485	Dear colleague Grbin, first of all, it's a shame that the club representatives today are not here to publicly express their views and it's hard to grow now so that someone behaves to get to... It is indeed not correct that parliamentary parties are unable to express their position on the committee or at this plenary debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Reasons, other thing. It is also true that the definition in the Constitution, but also in the Law on Referendum after the adoption of a new Law on the List of Voters, or the register of voters, creates doubts. I don't have the same doubt, and I also don't think that a sufficient number of signatures has been collected. But now we are not discussing and supporting the amendments are not for the purpose of this dilemma's solution, but for the change of practices that we have also had in Parliament a proposal for amendments that improves the decision that the Committee has proposed, and the Parliament should adopt. And I didn't say that the Parliament was supposed to refuse to call a referendum, but that, by addressing the Constitutional Court, one and the same, we solve two dilemmas of the permission of questions and created conditions, or the assumption of a referendum. That's what the amendment offers, and that's what I'm talking about. And you will have to agree with me because the Constitutional Court he acts like all other courts. I don't think the Constitutional Court would mind getting this kind of request from the Parliament as suggested in the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91486	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91487	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected remaining MPs and MPs. I'm a little sorry that now is the time to discuss this point, but it happens relatively often at such and similar points of the agenda to find themselves in this storm after about 20 hours or later. What I think we still need to figure out one more time, which is to talk about the initiative, to call a referendum on amending electoral legislation and decisions that are now on the agenda, is just a decision to call a referendum. So this would follow if it were accepted to call a referendum on which Croatian citizens decide and choose. So only then comes the matter of choice itself, and the majority who would decide on it, the Croatian citizens, who would decide on it. Today we talked all day about Croatian citizens, about what the Croatian public expects us to do, about changes in electoral legislation, about the dissatisfaction of Croatian citizens with the current electoral system, about the demand for greater participation in direct decision-making. And this initiative actually offers only one alternative, one model of electoral legislation which, if accepted, actually goes to the referendum. So for this initiative, a huge number of signatures were collected from Croatian citizens, so this 380 thousand, which is indeed a large number of signatures that are not collected on, collected and collected only in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, so that the law does not allow them to gather outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. And I also thank my colleague Lesar for getting a good hold of himself, and we've contributed here, and I'm not actually going to go into that doubt at all, given that there are circumstances like this now that we're gone and that it's already too late, the number of really real voters, as many of us as we have voters. But I must and cannot say, however, that today's majority of parliament, the absolute majority rests on a million votes or 950,000 votes by Croatian voters and we question whether this 380 thousand is 10%, and it's not very much, it would be best if one million and a half votes should be raised so that people can even come to a referendum and have the right to decide on something no matter how they decide. Indeed, it is not credible that, in the case of one referendum, we carry out one procedure and, in the case of the following, we carry out another procedure. And our proposal is actually relatively simple when we address the Constitutional Court. And we are not addressing the Constitutional Court by asking it to give us an interpretation of whether this number is 10% but whether the Constitutional Court solves our doubt as much as 10%. So it is much more credible that, therefore, what the Ministry of Administration cannot answer us, is given a clear answer either by the Ministry of Interior or by the Croatian State, regardless of which body it represented, we will ask the Constitutional Court to tell us what number it is. We are not asking an exact question to the Constitutional Court, we are opening before him a question about what number is needed to meet the 10% quota of Croatian voters, voters in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, our proposal for an amendment is that this decision actually asks the Constitutional Court in the first paragraph a simple answer to the question, therefore, whether the contents of the referendum question are in accordance with the Constitution and whether the number of these signatures that are submitted is 10%. And that's what we're actually solving that doubt on the one hand, if we get a negative answer, actually, the referendum initiative thing is over. If we get a positive answer we have enough time to carry out the procedure and this referendum is held together with the presidential elections, which would actually save considerable funds for Croatian citizens and Croatian taxpayers. It should not be afraid that the referendums are held together with the elections because it is one practice that takes place in many countries and not just one national referendum, but it is a practice throughout a number of countries that all national and local referendums are held together with the elections. One for the costs but two for the high turnout of voters. Therefore, it is not the same thing if a question is answered by 15% of voters who will come up for the issue, or if 60% of voters who go to the polls will answer those referendum questions that we put before them where we will get a complete then and a credible actually response from our Croatian citizens or voters to what they think about a question. And I think there is actually one space that, independently now on these citizens' initiatives, we actually use this space to get answers from Croatian citizens and some more questions or some big decisions that this or perhaps some next government should make and for them social legitimacy would also be sought from people not only indirectly through the electoral system. So we propose that this amendment be included and I think that actually by accepting it in the decision of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system will be significantly accelerated, facilitated, simplified and in fact we will get an answer from the Constitutional Court in full which we are ending or solving these doubts that exist today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91488	Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91489	Thank you very much. My colleague Đurović, you have well explained this amendment and about the issues that we are concerned about. When I listen to Mr. Bauk about the number of voters, then the population, then the number of citizens, then the number of voters, so I no longer know what's going on and all the figures are not mentioned, from 4.5 million to a report from the State Statistics Institute that speaks of 3.5 million adults, so the adult population in the Republic of Croatia, so 800,000 is those younger than 18 years old. But we were just discussing on the benches about the proposal, so Labourist and IDS about the units for selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and then we see that here it says that the total voter in the Republic of Croatia, and that's what this amendment refers to: 3 million 760 thousand. I would not so categorically argue, in the end the Constitutional Court will actually decide on it, so I do not want to prejudge whether it is 10%, so 376 or 380 thousand, that will be decided by the Constitutional Court. I wish we were there as in some neighbouring countries, a lot more voters, but given what you're doing in the country, to emigrate, and that, I'm afraid, that number of 380 000 is also well over 10%. That is why I support, of course, on behalf of the club this amendment of ours, and I support in particular that you have expressed your wish that if the Constitutional Court decides to respond positively to the referendum issue, so that the number of signatures is sufficient, we have a referendum just when the presidential elections are held.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91490	Thank you very much. Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91491	Well, yes, I didn't particularly want to list it because it's actually listed in the material that voters with residence in the Republic of Croatia in several election cycles were recorded about 3.7 million in several last election cycles of parliamentary and euro elections so that indeed, and if we have 3 million and 450 thousand adult residents, we counted each one by one and we didn't miss any. If we have so much insurance in health insurance. So I think that these things are completely clear, and all of this is, in fact, beyond that, mere equilibration, probably part of manipulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91492	My colleague Branko Hrg. He's not present, so he's losing his right to argue on this wheel. And finally, the chairman of the Peja Grbin Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91493	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I really expected that I wouldn't have to bother you all with the final exposure, but after what I had the chance to hear in the presentation of a respected colleague, I must do so. So let's take the turn. A respected colleague, where the law says he is not allowed to collect signatures outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Read the Law of Referendum, find me that provision and read me the ban. She's gone. It is missing, and it is not visible from the proceedings of the Committee on the Constitution, the Ministry of Administration, the State Bureau of Statistics, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament when the signatures collected outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia were accepted as equally valid, as well as those of the signatures collected within the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Dear applicants deliberately pointed out, singled out, and specifically submitted the lists of collected signatures outside Croatia a year ago. Did anyone single them out after that? Of course not, because it was about signatures given by adult Croatian citizens who have the right to vote. The Constitution needs to be read from time to time by colleagues. Now let's get back to the doubt. The SDP advocates' club has been trying to resolve the number of signatures long ago. About a year ago, we were one step ahead of that, but you gave up on it at the last minute, representatives of the HDSSB Representatives' Club. You've given up, among other things, the number of signatures needed to call a referendum and reduce it to 200,000, and today you're smart. You're colleagues, you've given up, you've made it public and you haven't voted. You gave it up, don't pretend it was different now. In this case, the Constitutional Court will decide and state what 10% is or will not. The Constitutional Court has the right to decide as he sees fit, not you, not me. The Constitutional Court has the right to say that a sufficient number of signatures is collected and put a point there, and can enter into an explanation, can enter into an explanation no, there is not enough number of signatures and tell us what is sufficient number of signatures. We cannot know that until we get and see that decision, and when we get it, we will respect it as we are obliged and we will implement the procedure prescribed by the Constitution, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, the Law on Referendum and parliamentary practice adopted over the past few years by the Croatian Parliament. For last, I wish we didn't have all these doubts, I'd like that, but we have them. We haven't changed the constitution, I hope in the next assembly we'll be more reasonable and we'll do it. And as for the deadlines, if you had studied the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, you would know that there is a deadline within which the Constitutional Court makes a decision. He's about 30 days old. After that, also a deadline within which the Croatian Parliament cannot call a referendum. The deadline for the referendum can't be shorter than a certain number of days, so when you add those two deadlines, then you can see why this referendum can't be held in any way when the presidential elections are held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91494	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91495	Thank you very much. As long as the Government of the SDP and its partners has stalled with the presidential elections and the publication of the date of the presidential elections, I have the feeling that this could easily be met by all the deadlines that you are talking about and the decision of the Constitutional Court and the decision of the Croatian Parliament, provided that the Constitutional Court responds positively to this amendment, to give a positive opinion on the referendum issue and on the number of voters. By the Constitutional Court's decision, we would definitely and finally settle once and for all, at least according to these legal provisions, how much, therefore, the signatures needed to carry out the referendum. That would then apply to any future initiative that would be conducted in connection with the launch of a new referendum. Your remark that the organisers of the last referendum of the same initiative "In the Name of the Family" boasted that they were collecting signatures outside the country did not hold water. Namely, where it says that, you said where it says it does not need to collect signatures outside the Republic of Croatia. And where does it say you need to collect signatures? If you have a sufficient number of signatures in Croatia and why would you collect abroad, so it is a expensive procedure mainly if it is done as someone said from your coalition to collect signatures in obscenity places, which is really a very interesting adjective, obscenuous places. I think we need to get rid of that quota once and for all, once and for all, this censorship of how much 10% of the total signatures are no matter where they get together. Or if it says in the Republic, then in the Republic of Croatia, so we can settle it once and for all. Then why didn't you, as chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, check how much was collected abroad, and how much was collected in Croatia in the last referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91496	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Peja Grbin. Turn off your buddy mic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91497	Ma colleague Boro, so you don't have to collect support anywhere if you don't want to, but your right to support is to collect where it is not explicitly prohibited, or where the law is allowed. And the law in the articles that are subsequently inserted into it is Articles 8a., b, c, d, etc. does not prohibit the collection of signatures outside the borders of the Republic. The fact that that ban doesn't exist has been accepted by all those bodies I've counted for you before. And now you can't answer me, but imagine that in front of you, and you're on one signing stand, that a citizen of the Republic of Croatia who doesn't have a residence in the Republic of Croatia should come before you, but rather, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, would you deny him the right to sign. Of course not, because it is based on Article 45(1) of the first Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that has the same right to participate in the electoral process, and in particular in the vote at a national referendum like you or I who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia and for me there is no doubt about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91498	And Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91499	Thank you. Well, I don't think there's any need to talk about how someone's smart. It's a little rude and it's not the time to talk like that. I think it clearly states that it is 10% voters in the Republic of Croatia, so not voters in Munich, Bosnia and Herzegovina or Macedonia, but voters in the Republic of Croatia so there is no reason to be upset at all. This amendment is actually an attempt to constructively help resolve and close this issue and, in fact, speed up the process as quickly as possible, solve it. So I think in the end it's also in your interest that it's actually as fast as possible, easier to get rid of, than to have that tape drawn around it for months. Secondly, when it comes to our role in constitutional changes, I can say that I am very proud of my role in the failures of your constitutional changes and of stopping your attempts to shut down the referendums, to prevent the extradition of Perkovic and I am very proud of it, and I would certainly do everything and again that your changes to the constitutional ones that were then on the agenda do not go away and will not go away as far as I'm concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91500	Peja Grbin, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91501	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, it's an interesting way of shutting down the referendum by proposing a reduction in the number of signatures for the referendum. I wasn't really brilliant at logic when I taught her high school, but at least I get this. However, a respected colleague, a great lawyer, defined three elements of the state in the 19th century. One is sovereignty, the other is territory, and the third is its citizens. It is amazing to me that I, a member of the SDP today, must defend the right of citizens of the Republic of Croatia living outside its borders to participate in the political process in the Republic of Croatia. The least funny thing to say is that we are called non-Croatians, that we hate those who live outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, and that is the least said not so. Well, here's what I'm going to tell you on my example. My cousin, my aunt lives in Ljubljana. Do you think they should be denied the right as Croatian citizens to come to Pula and sign a request for a particular referendum? I don't think so. But I'm saying, now I know, here you have personally participated, you have personally contributed to not reducing the number of signatures needed to call a referendum. I hope someone more reasonable will come to your place soon, and then we'll have a chance to get the Constitution right, and here's if I offended you by saying you're smart, I really apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91502	Apology always came in handy. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the motion for a decision tomorrow, most likely. My colleagues and colleagues, tomorrow we will continue the debate at 9.30 A proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act. Thank you very much and good night!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91503	Proposal for a Decision on the grounds of a request for a national referendum of the Citizens' Initiative "On behalf of the Family". The Proposer of the Decision is the Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the Proposal for a Decision is closed. The amendment was submitted by representatives Drazen Djurovic, Josip Salapic and Dinko Buric. I ask the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the respected colleague, Peju Grbin, to be seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91504	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. [[President: Only one amendment. Here you go, buddy.]] At its meeting held on 14 November 2014, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system unanimously rejected the proposed amendment. The Committee did not accept the proposed amendment for reasons that neither the Committee nor the Croatian Parliament discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia on the constitutionality and eligibility of issues and requests for a call for a state referendum of the citizens' initiative "In the name of the family". As a consequence, the same cannot be the subject of the Decision on a request for a national referendum to be called upon by the latter more so than, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 14 January 2014, any such address to the Constitutional Court should be clearly explained. The applicant for the amendment also did not notice that the provision of Article 95 did not apply. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court provides for two reasons to address the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, the Constitutional Court. Material and formal. As the Committee and the Croatian Parliament discussed only the formal reasons of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia at this stage of the procedure, they are required only to be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91505	Thank you, too, the Honorable President of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the respected representative Drazen Djurovic, an obvious one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91506	Thank you. The proposer of the amendment has seen all that has been written and, in a broad explanation of the amendment proposal, made it all. So you are the practice we have established in the previous referendum initiative you are now establishing a new practice instead of at least sticking to the once established practice and showing the inability of Croatian institutions to determine the number of voters at all and how much 10%. And for this reason, you are not addressing the Constitutional Court with a specific question, but you are addressing the Constitutional Court with the question of how many voters should it be. So the point of my amendment is when we are already addressing the Constitutional Court and it is perfectly consistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to ask the Constitutional Court whether the number of 380 thousand 649 voters is 10% voter in the Republic of Croatia. And the second part of the amendment is whether the question, the referendum question, is constitutional. If we do this, we get an answer to both questions and we can actually go into the referendum process if we get a positive answer, that is, in the case of a negative answer, we actually end the further procedure. This manner of implementation of this procedure would allow for a positive response to be issued and implemented during the presidential elections, whether in the first or second rounds and which would then allow significant savings to be achieved. In case the procedure is rejected, it ends. I therefore believe that this is a logical and meaningful sequence unlike that of yours that you have launched, which is very illogical, very illogical and does not actually lead to solving problems and getting a clear answer but actually to stretching senseless and unnecessary stretching of procedures. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-13-0.u91507	Please state the amendment of respected representatives Drazen Djurovic, Josip Salapic and Dinko Buric, whom the promoter did not accept. Please vote. Score. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote. Who's in? Oh, I'm sorry, you'll do it yourself. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes of 86 votes in favour, 19 abstentions and 3 votes against a decision taken on the basis of a request for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative "In the name of the family" in the text as proposed by the Proposer, or the Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. That concludes today's vote. Have we finished the debate, too, among fellow respected colleagues and colleagues? So today we ended up having a discussion on topics that were on the agenda. [[Intruder: We did.]] I'm scheduled for the plenary session to begin on Wednesday 19th next week. I ask that working bodies be shown about the materials on the agenda on Wednesday, which is the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 and secondly, the proposal to amend and supplement financial plans, extra- budget users, etc. Thank you very much. I'll see you Monday, Tuesday and the plenary session Wednesday. Thank you very much.
