ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68393	My colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're going back to work. We will discuss - The proposal for a plan for harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union for the year 2014 was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of the plan. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Mr. Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68394	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Allow me to present to you a plan for harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis for the EU for 2014. This plan provides full information to parliamentary representatives on all legal activities planned by the Government of the Republic of Croatia during 2014, resulting from full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU and our obligation to continue to take over the EU acquis. Although the Republic of Croatia became the 28th member of the EU on 1 July 2013 and during the pre-accession negotiations fulfilled all the obligations arising from the EU accession process relating in particular to the process of harmonisation of legislation with acquis, the acquis of the Union is constantly developing and Croatia as a full member is obliged to align its national regulations with the new acquis. After ten years of harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis entering full EU membership, we have entered a new phase of harmonisation in which Croatia is changing its laws in parallel with other EU Member States. In reaching this new stage, the Croatian Parliament has clear merits and an immeasurable role. It is important to note that during the pre-accession period the harmonisation of legislation was among the most important jobs of the Croatian Parliament. Since 2003, when the process began to join Croatia in the EU, the parliament passed 683 harmonised laws of which 152 in 2013. This year, the government of the Republic of Croatia also adopted the Government Programme for the acquisition and implementation of the EU acquis for 2014. It is a programme for transposing the new acquis of the EU, as other Member States have, which carries out regular annual coordination with the new acquis. An integral part of the Government's programme for the takeover and implementation of the EU acquis for 2014 is the plan to bring legislation into line with the acquis. The plan contains a total of 42 laws transposing the new acquis of the EU where Croatia is changing its legislation in parallel with other EU Member States by actively monitoring the development of the acquis by the competent authorities of the State Administration. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important to note that the continued harmonisation of national legislation with the acquis ensures timely and correct application of the adopted legislation, which has a major impact on the everyday life of all citizens and contributes to strengthening the Croatian economy and society as a whole. Given the key and irreplaceable role of the Croatian Parliament in the debate and adoption of legislative proposals, it is proposed that the Croatian Assembly adopt this plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68395	Thank you. Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Words Club, Damir Cain signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68396	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy, gentlemen of the Parliament, very briefly. Yes, as we have just heard, the Parliament has aligned with the EU 683 laws, of which 152 in 2013. Here we have another, what, 42 legal texts of which, e.g. and the Law amending the law on transparency of public funds flows, international restrictive measures, the Energy Efficiency Act, energy sources, the Consumer Protection Act, the mortuary activity, even that we must comply with Europe, port captains, but there is also the Law on Value Added Tax, the Law on Private Protection, the Criminal Law, and I find it extremely interesting the Law on Media, the Law on Electronic Media. And what I'm most interested in here is these very laws on transparency of public funds flows and the Media Act and the Electronic Media Act. Why? Because for these purposes alone, we speak from local self-government when it comes to the media in Istria on an annual basis, clearly for selected radio, television and press releases up to 10 million kuna. means in one term 40 million kunas, which can be converted into video and photo albums of those who "finance it" with our or our public money. And that should be regulated in some way, and it should begin to be spoken openly because that is how electoral will itself is determined, and on the other hand, we see that the DORH and other institutions are silent. All very clearly before us this year is 42 laws that must be harmonised with the European acquis. I said here there are extremely important laws of the General Tax Act, the Law on Commercial Society, the Criminal Law, the Law on Value Added Tax, the flows of public funds, and I underline once again the laws on media and the Law on Electronic Media. I want to believe that the practice when we adopt these laws or when we bring them into line with the European acquis will be such that individuals will no longer abuse these opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68397	Branko Vuksic reports for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68398	Very short. Dear colleague Cain, you mentioned the Law on Electronic Media Practice Television. We need to know that one of the most incompatible areas in the EU is certainly the media and there is no single policy in the EU regarding the media and as far as we are concerned, it is public television and the functioning of public television. It is absolutely certain that there are examples of public television in the EU that can be a role model for HTV such as one BBC or some other television that truly performs public function and which treat all political competitors in a way that is democratic. Well, then we need to know that many such televisions have no contact with the commercial and that such televisions have deprived the EEP so that they can be as independent as possible in their actions and not depend on large capital. So we, on the Media Committee, will open the topic and start talking about how much HTV is dependent on large capital and how much capital affects the design of the programme, and it certainly affects and is instructed to discuss on HRT the elimination of any contact with large capital, i.e. to eliminate advertising.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68399	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68400	Yes, it is certain that this Electronic Media Act should also be tangled by these large national systems, including HRT. I wasn't talking about HRT this time because soon there will be a report on HRT in front of us parliamentary deputies, which we know that on an annual level through what is called "encourage", citizens are paying the same billion and 200 million kuna. I wanted to say something about local media, and I think, first of all, that these executive authorities that finance public money, our money needs to set certain criteria for who, why, how much money, and then televisions have to enable either these written media or I don't know radio stations to access everyone, and not to pretend like I said if it's about the press releases of those who are in power or in the home video of those who have executive authority. I claim that one of the greatest crimes, mostly when I look at Istria, is here in that space and the media then hangs on the other side of that 10 million kuna, and the heights of these synocuras conceal everything else and in some way in cohabitation are with what happens in those areas. They are therefore responsible, of course, that the DORH is silent, and that something might change, perhaps, something needs to be changed in the DORH itself. What do we have now? We now have a situation that media owners through pre-determined agreements of abuse of laws, individuals or through related societies show we know what all fictitious obligations they are and I would actually say they are laughing at all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68401	We're continuing the club debate. For the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS, Mrs Jadranka Kosor applied, but she is not in the assembly, so her club loses the right to discuss this topic. On behalf of the HDZ club, a respected colleague, Davor Bozinovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68402	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister. Here, ladies and gentlemen, the practice of adopting European laws continues with the fact that, of course, the situation is new, given that Croatia became a member of 1.7.2013, it is a new fact that is reflected in this business as well. The first thing she could reflect on is the very name of the document. So all these years we have come up with a plan to harmonise the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis on EU harmonisation with the acquis is also a term used at this time with candidate countries, which are therefore in negotiations with the European Union. So I think we could think about calling that document something different. Finally, there is European terminology according to this plan, so the European Commission is tasked with monitoring the application european law, meaning implementation, can implement, can take over but I think we have been harmonizing long enough and 1.7.2013. we have received confirmation of that. Mr. Deputy Minister here introduced us to the document put in the procedure and, among other things, said he was giving us one complete piece of information on the government's legislative plan in this area. However, I would like to remind you of the 2013 plan, the Government in this plan, in addition to each law, gave a brief description of the directive or of some decision by the European Council, or adopted legislation which our transposition through the legislation of the Republic of Croatia specifically refers to. And I think it was a good practice and I think that practice could have continued without a problem because then it's easier for MPs to also follow the government's members. The novelty in relation to the earlier period relates first and foremost to the European Union regulations, because in the period, let's say again the harmonisations that preceded membership and those Regulations have been transposed into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia's laws. Today they have direct application, so they have general application in a way that is directly applicable to the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. In other words, except in some exceptional cases, where a regulation is to be applied, for example. the establishment of a special body then the Assembly would have to regulate this by law or, where the regulation refers to infringements or criminal provisions, and in the light of our legislation, it would have to be settled by law. All other regulations shall apply in the Republic of Croatia as a member of the European Union as they have been adopted. I would now mention the problem for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which could be relatively easy to resolve, which is the availability of information about these regulations that are in force, so they are an act of adoption in force in the Republic of Croatia as well. And at this point they are transparently available on the site of the National Journal where there is a link to the euro lex so-called. the database of European Union legislation. I think it is, however, a rather sophisticated base where you need to know exactly what you are looking for to get to that document, so either use precise keywords or you need to know what is, of course, the illusory number of this document to get to it. That is why it seems to me that the ministries and other state bodies in whose field of work fall under the regulations adopted in the European Union. On their website, they give a review of these regulations, so all those that have been adopted in the field of agriculture to be on the Ministry of Agriculture's website that people can simply come up with the text of those legal solutions, or the regulation of the European Union, which is important for their work, regardless of which area this applies, because, as we know, the European Union covers a large part of the area and the economy and the environment, and that I do not list. What must also be clear here, is that the Parliament is an important factor, that the role of the Parliament or national parliaments has changed, that the role of the European Parliament has also been changed by way of the Lisbon Treaty, that it has received greater powers. But what kind of goes under the public radar is that the work of our representatives in the council. Representatives of the Council shall be officials, civil servants working either as part of COREPER 1 and COREPER 2, so the Committees of Permanent Representatives as well as in many working bodies. No matter what they come from the executive authority, their real work is legislative. And I think that in this sense we need to open up a little more to the public and to those stakeholders in Croatia who are interested in this area of concrete laws, i.e. regulations, directives or decisions in order to actually reach a good material, a good position. Of course, the government is doing this for its own part, but this process is when you look at other countries' practices quite extensively. They are fully open to different stakeholders operating in Brussels. We talked about it on the board yesterday. According to the latest, there are more than 6,000 lobbying companies in Brussels. Today, for reasons of correctness, this is about representatives of various interests with a pit of 20,000 people. So, on the one hand, our stakeholders should, of course, act towards the government, but they should be encouraged to network into these stakeholders in Brussels because they are a very important part of the legislation, i.e. have a major impact on the adoption of laws within the EU. Here you have groups of not knowing strong, powerful organizations such as the European chemical industry confederation to associations dealing with elevator components. But we need to talk about this, because this is something that both the EU and the European Commission are encouraging their inclusion. We should encourage this, too, because of the limited capacity of the administration to master and create a basis for as high-quality laws as possible. Another thing I would have noticed compared to the last proposal, that is, the plan. We had under that plan 108 laws to adopt. The Assembly page says that they were adopted during that period of 125. I gave myself a little effort, listed them, and found that 157 European laws we adopted in 2013. So it's obvious that something with the records is wrong, and I think it's a good practice for all the plans to talk about these plans, or the realization of plans, when a new plan is made. So my plan for the 2015 plan is to get one review, one analysis of what's been done, and that's one final number, one final number that we don't have to wander because every record shows something else. I hope that's not because certain laws are only in emergency procedures. So, as I said the people working in the council are very important and this should be considered in the reform of the state administration in the sense that this reform must go towards expanding the personnel base of state officials who are able to deal with such a demanding job. So, even though they are notified as diplomats they are experts, they are also in the function of the legislator. By contrast, we have been talking here for a month about abolishing the State Inspectorate as if it were the main issue of reforming the state administration in Croatia. That is why the Parliament, and we have already mentioned this several times, can give this whole process its pain by opening up the meetings of the European Affairs Committee to the public, even through video transmission via the Internet of the sessions, in order to simply expand that information about what is happening in the EU. There's a bit of information here and there, but only if it's spectacular through the media. 90% of those who are important, which means life is not sufficiently representative to citizens, to those who are concerned, to whom these regulations and laws apply. That's why I'm going to repeat a few suggestions. So, to consider the name of the document. He doesn't have to be called coordination anymore. I think it is best to use the terminology that exists for Member States, which is to apply or implement whatever European laws you want. That the proposer in the future in the proposal for a legislative action plan will report on the implementation of the last plan, because it turns out that some fifty laws have been passed by this Parliament through the plan. That the ministries and other bodies of the state administration on their site are users of those who are interested, and I am sure that they exist to have the part in which the EU regulations on their territory will be transposed. So, the ones that are in effect in the Republic of Croatia. The directives are something else. The directives need to be transposed through laws and published in "The People's Newspaper" and that's something that citizens are used to. And fourthly, I think that we must all work together, including the Parliament, to encourage citizens, stakeholders to participate more strongly in the law-making process. These laws that we pass and which we will pass next year are not legislative acts in a classical sense. There are no too many negotiations on content. What is important is that it happens in Brussels, on the one hand in Parliament and on the other hand in the Council. Parliament is more public for various reasons, including European elections. The Council, or representatives of the Council, should be at their disposal, and they are. But information needs to be made about this to everyone concerned because it affects the content of the laws adopted by the European Union. [[Intruder Stazić: Bring the end slowly.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68403	Thank you. We have two replicas. First came the esteemed Đuro Popiè. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68404	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, a well-respected colleague of yours did what we did when we joined the EU negotiations, which was an effort, which was a huge job. Of course, and what knowledge it took to end it. You also talked about what coordination means now, what the process is, and what the role of all those people sitting around various bodies in the European Commission is. However, the question arises as to what happens when we say this House, this Parliament is passing laws that are not in line with EU law, which we have seen in many examples over the past two years. So, starting with the Law on HRT, now here are all very well-consumed and well-known lex Perkovic. So here are lately some laws that have brought back certain things and which are definitely not in line with legal regulations such as the abolition of the State Inspectorate and the return of a second-degree procedure to those bodies that actually make solutions in the first degree. We have changed 127 laws just to comply with European practice and the European Directive. So, what happens and what consequences are possible when someone finds out somewhere that we are actually re-infringing and deharmonizing our regulation in relation to what we negotiated and accepted when we entered as a full member of the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68405	Second replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68406	Dear colleague Bozinović, here you will have the opportunity to answer here now. You noticed one logical, let's say a mistake, when you spoke of the name itself and I completely agree and this other part of the replica will apply, we continue to act as if we are not an EU member, as if Croatia is not an EU member, and that is the part where you spoke about the media. How can the citizens of the Republic of Croatia be informed about what is happening in all EU bodies and the fact that we joined the EU last year. Certainly, the most public service should be run, which is HRT and radio and television, however, the 4th information programme as if it were illegal. A little something happened. In the news, on the 1st programme's top HRT news, you've only noticed that you're only following the EU at the level of excess, at the level of interest, at the level of the anecdotes being monitored by the EU. However, we should have, I was already speaking in the Croatian Parliament, at the public service of the daily chronicle that is happening in the EU, the summary of the discussions of our representatives in the European Parliament. However, HRT acts as if it is not about the EU, as if HRT is not in the EU but has a separate story in Prisavlje. And what makes editors on HRT look good is on the news. So I fully support your initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68407	The replica matches Davor Bozinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68408	Thank you very much. Mr. Vuksic Brussels is next to the Washington Media Center of the World. More than 800 media outlets are registered in Brussels, not to mention those who come as they did in our case when something important went to Brussels, and there is, of course, a lot of them. I agree with you, but I think it's more of a editorial concept than a journalist. Because journalists, Croatian journalists and public service escorting the EU are among the best known to the EU's problems, I would dare say in Croatia. So when we talk about excess, that's true. Excesses are also situations where something is attempted through the application of the provisions, or the EU directive, which is not negotiated or not agreed in the negotiation process. In this context, it is important to mention that the EU is very well monitoring this. Member States are obliged to report on what they have adopted, what laws they have passed and how they have adopted them every two months. So there are no too many surprises, this process is called statistics, or score boards, and you have exactly the states that have fulfilled their obligations and those that are not. For example, at this point, Croatia was late in September 2013 with 3 laws, I don't know what it refers to, we couldn't hear the opening words, but the procedure is clear. So the EU has the instruments, of course, to force a member, including to give it to the European Court for this reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68409	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected Daniel Mondekar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68410	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy minister, co-workers and fellow MPs, for this year's coordination plan where counterpart Bozinovic even mentioned well that we may be able to consider the name of the document we have 40 acts. The Committee on European Affairs as well as last year and year before that, when it was called on otherwise, has traditionally asked the Government to supplement the document, and here we join again that we expect this supplement as we did last year to see what act it is harmonized with, which is the EU legal document with which the laws that we must bring together, so that the representatives can basically check what is in them. This is a new legal gain. That we took over when we negotiated, the negotiations when they finished we continued to take over. These documents, these 40 acts are among the last in which, i.e. in which Croatia did not participate, given that this will be transposed in 2014, we can conclude that some of these acts were passed last year, two, three years ago, given the duration of the cycle of adoption of legal documents in the EU. And we can also conclude that in a year, two of me here will dare to say a word at most two, so 2016 will be a circle completely closed. What does that mean? This means that Croatian institutions from the government which is true in the EU will assume the role of the legislative authority because it participates in a regular legislative procedure with the European Parliament, so from the government that participates in the work to the Parliament that controls the work itself until the end, if the transposition directive is the same when it comes back to Croatia in two years after its adoption, which means that for the acts in which we are now taking part, I don't know that we had a committee yesterday, so we went through a few documents when these acts go through their own procedure to the Council and it can take a little longer than the orientation debate to political agreement when the European Parliament's committees of the European Parliament pass and let's consider being voted in the first reading and not going to another reading, so that it can take two, three, sometimes four years. We now have situations that one part of the European Commission's 2013 work programme documents for certain reasons whether this is a political reason, whether this issue of the 2014 election is ending the legislative period and will start a new legislative period of the 2013 documents to be transferred de facto to 2015. With the fact that if you've been watching the European Commission's 2013 action programme, you've seen that on it, I'm going to use a colloquial expression here to acidify some documents since 2003 and they're still in the work programme and they haven't been adopted. The so-called procedure. Regulators of fitness refinery, the EU is likely to and will simply delete some of them, not to say that the part will now be adapted to the needs of a newer time than it was in the 1990s or ten years ago. So, 2016 will fully close the circle as it will in 2016, for example, because of m+3 rules probably and close the issue of the first financial envelope from 2013. What are the laws harmonizing with? We are in line with the directives that my colleague Bozinovic has said well and with certain regulations that require the Law on the Implementation of the Regulation, there are not many of them, it is those who prescribe that a Member State must appoint a competent authority for something and if there is an infringement that needs to be sanctioned. Of course, with regulations that don't require it, we have direct application. This means that once it has been brought, it no longer returns to parliament, parliament no longer has a job with it, it is published in Croatian in the database of the European acquis and has as I said directly legal application. It causes two things or calls for two things. First, to serious work and be careful in making. All must participate in the draft regulation, there must be a clear impact assessment, the government must participate actively, the Assembly must participate actively and what is well said must be actively involved by stakeholders. They are associations, they are trade unions, they are employers, and there is a fellow member Bozinovic well mentioned, the fact is that according to some statistics, these are some statistics that have been issued by organisations that control the lobby register, so maybe that's too high. In Brussels, indeed very many, thousands of lobbyist organisations, these are not large majority companies, these are large majority of them, citizens who are associations of business interest, associations of companies or associations of associations, which means that in Croatia they are horizontally in networks like we have examples of milkers and they create a CRO milk organization because they want to de facto network themselves to (a) integrate the service and (b) protect their share of the market when looking at a huge market of 500 million people because we are not only able to place our product in the EU, any EU producer can place themselves with us. And after the horizontal networking in the country, there is a great need for vertical inhaling in Brussels, into the same European organisation that directly affects the Commission of Parliament's smaller councils. What does that look like? The Commission has expert working groups that have been paid to assist the Commission in drawing up acts and these expert working groups make up your business and interest networks. In the European Parliament, as I mentioned a few days ago, there are meb industrial forums in my speech, one of them also visited the Croatian Parliament. It is a forum that is established under the auspices of the European Parliament, its seat in the European Parliament and is made up of European and national representatives. Their membership fee is zero euros. Companies dealing with, in this case, energy, here I was talking about this energy, paying between 5 and 10 000 euros to de facto have contact with the euro-parliamentaries. The largest think tanks of Brusellex are also among the largest lobbyists in Brusellex. When they do state of the union events, they pay dearly for chairs. And myself, I'm speaking here personally, I find a lot of things extremely unethical, but that's something that we have to deal with. We may not work that way, but that doesn't mean that some of our friends in Europe don't do the same, or do it. And that's why we have to deal with it. And that is why it is necessary to encourage Croatian entrepreneurs and all groups to be horizontally networked, to pay membership fees in Brussels organisations, and thus also to help the Republic of Croatia because it is a multidimensional story. And the other thing that comes out of this is really databases. There are many of them, I am personally pleased to see that in Croatian it can be found in the council base exactly where each act is. From COREPER to the political level of debate, to a political agreement where the legal Observatory of the European Parliament also makes it clear in Croatian where each act is, but there are a lot of these bases and that is the problem. Is that in Croatian, it's excellent data, everything can be found, but the fact is that a single act should be searched through three databases to see where it is in the process of getting it. And if there's anything possible, there's probably something that could be done no matter how, no matter how European law says it, where it's being published, how the acts are published. And the third thing this opens, which we already mentioned is the subject of subsidiarity. Although we are a young member, I have no intention of being pretentious here, but we need to open the matter of subsidiarity very quickly in the House because the Lisbon Treaty has given us greater powers than the powers that the national parliaments had before Lisbon, that we understand each other immediately because certain models of parliamentary oversight exist since '74. In the '70s, actually, so. What's going on here? Lisbon tells us national parliaments control the government. Great. But at the same time as we control the government, there's a growing number of direct application regulations. And not only that, we have already mentioned once, there is a growing number of regulations that change packages, not one regulation, but directives and packages of directives. So the regulation amends a whole series of directives. Which means as we grow political influence as a national parliament on the one hand, on the other hand, the European Commission narrows down that space the way it de facto puts documents, draft documents in the process. And that is why the Croatian Parliament, like all other national parliaments, must be involved in a political debate among the 28 parliaments on the story we have already told, more or less Europe where and in what way. And as far as we are concerned, the Committee on European Affairs will do so within a very short period of time, i.e. it will open this very political topic. I'm thanking you one more time. For the end of the SDP club, it will support the proposal for a legislative harmonisation plan for 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68411	Thank you. They're following the replicas. First respected Davor Bozinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68412	Thank you very much. Just a few notes. These data that have been presented on the number of lobbyists, or representatives of interest, as it is called today more correctly are derived from the transparency register, so they are not just private companies, but also the European Commission, by its own special directive, to somehow introduce order into that lobbying network a transparency register. These are data that are, they're not quite accurate, but they went out and they're calling for a transparency register. The last one I knew while I stayed up a little more often, was in 2011. 3650 and 15,000 people. I'd also be a little reference just to this council. We must shed light on the role of the council. Not that there is anything special about Croatia. It is also one of the legitimate topics of debate and debate in the EU. The European Council brings at lower levels 70% of legislation, at lower levels, even lower than representatives. So that's where we have to connect this thing to further improving public administration, and we don't deal with trivial issues as much as they seem politically relevant at some point. And what I also want to say is that this proposal that I went with is that fishermen in the site of their ministry can find regulations that must be applied in practice. The same goes for farmers, same for all other brands. I thank you for your support and return the compliments on the enthusiasm you are investing in the work of the European Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68413	The replica matches Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68414	Thank you very much. Two topics are these, excellent political topics to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament. Yes, the lobby register is a topic, a hot topic that has been withdrawing, especially for the past few months intensively across European media. Yeah, the number's growing, you're right, the number's growing because it turns out that the register needs not only companies, but also business associations. Then business associations said, but why, we're the NGO sector, like why in the register? When, as a dam, it collapsed, and thanks to one interesting piece of information, which is that the commissioners must report who they are receiving for the talks, each commissioner must therefore report that I have received both the company and the representatives of that organisation. Analysis for 2011 or something has shown that 60% of these people who have come to the European Commission are not in the register to talk to Commissioners. And that's why it knocked down the barrier and started spreading the register. I personally agree with you about what we talked about about the register and I think it is time to start now in the register pushing and as many representatives from Croatia as possible. The other thing that was important here is the council. I agree, because when Parliament comes out of the working groups of councils, Parliament has its hands tied more. When it comes to Coreper, that's what when we receive powerful delegations from EU countries when they tell us, my people, when they enter Coreper, there are changes to the document and positions that take place via SMS within 13 minutes and there are national parliaments completely excluded. And that's why this is a legitimate topic to discuss exactly national parliaments. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68415	The second line is esteemed Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68416	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here, by joining this atmosphere of mutual compliment, and by supporting this plan that is ahead of us, I just want to remind ourselves that during the negotiations, especially in the conclusion of the negotiations, and even through the work of the National Council, we have repeatedly repeated what is now being confirmed, here in the first months of membership, that as a member of the EU we will still have to work hard and committed that this work will never stop, but I would add something that does not say in this plan, of course something that is important in political terms. The biggest adjustment in this year's political sense as an EU member will be to realise this contribution to address the excessive deficit, so we have entered these scissors that as a member of the EU and that will be our biggest adjustment. So that's where we're going to have to show added strength, determination, perseverance, because we're going to be convinced through the measures we saw yesterday that we have to go further, of course it's not part of this plan, but in the broadest sense of the political plan we have to be, we're going to have to, and we're going to have to change some laws more definitely. If the government wants to achieve what must be the goal of each government to bring as much change and reform as possible in agreement with social and other partners. So in the political sense of adapting as the 28th EU member, we have a difficult time and I would say uncertain work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68417	The replica matches Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68418	Thank you very much. I couldn't agree more. Croatia has become a different state through the negotiations. It is not the same Croatia that was 10 years ago and the EU is not the same as it was 10 years ago. Some things have changed significantly. In negotiations with new countries such as Montenegro, the economic criteria are an integral part of their negotiations, including the fact that they start with chapter 23... so experience withdrawn from Croatia, but the experience that has led to the crisis has now been introduced in the way others negotiate. The key change that follows is enormous. It is a change and mental assembly in the state, it shows the fact that the excessive deficit procedure, but the fact that I already mentioned Croatia is no longer an island in anything is an island. We expect very quickly recommendations related to the European semester that all other 28 countries as a second mechanism, the coordination of macroeconomic and financial policies, and this is one novelty that Croatia will really have to face quickly and have to act as part of a large community of 28 countries, where again little criticism to refer to a community that has ceased to be only a political union in many ways and is primarily an economic-political union where, as I said, we will have to get used to them even though we do not agree with them. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68419	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, a respected colleague, Jozo Radoš, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68420	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what I'm going to start with what my colleague Mondekar or Mrs Kosor was talking about, and that's the question is that Croatia is the same country after it passed the negotiations with the EU. The question can be answered that Croatia has changed slightly, that Croatia has reborn. Usually the changes you're experiencing you can't track, you're not able to identify what's going on for you, you can feel for yourself, so that's a big question. There have certainly been significant changes in some aspects, but the ordinary man when he looks at Croatia today and Croatia a few years ago will say that nothing has changed. It's hard to catch changes, but certainly what happened in the phase of our accession was very important. But I'm not saying that to shed light on this question that we've changed to, but because our new status is an opportunity to change for the better, so I'm saying it. So that change didn't end. If it existed, if it was positive, and I think the issue is of course the intensity and amplitude of that change, but certainly our EU membership offers a chance to change for the better, for the faster progress of our country and this is a more important issue than this theoretical question whether and to what extent we have changed, including, of course, the monitoring of EU legislation. The colleagues noted that from their perspective from their interest the laws were most important, media laws were mentioned. I would, from this package for 2014 in some way, place a special emphasis on energy laws. 2014 is the year of application of the 3rd energy package. In the energy sector, EU laws are largely those laws that enter our legislation. It is an extremely important area of energy that is increasingly important and will be of particular importance that we follow and that we apply these laws or build into our legislation in the right way, and this should be devoted in particular. As is one big area, and I'm just going to mention it from this harmonisation package, the Consumer Protection Act. So one area that has been very developed in the European Union is far more developed than it is in Croatia. And in the application of this legislation, we can make important, make real leaps not only to protect consumers but to regulate at all one almost complete state action because the consumer is actually tied to everything. And let's say these two complexes, so energy consumers are actually the most important thing for me in this programme in 2014. But even more important is what is going to happen and somehow my colleagues seem to be taking a step further than the one who is waiting for us in 2016 says colleague Mondekar, so here somewhere we will stop harmonizing our legislation in this way with what has been adopted and what we have not participated in. But before us is the step in which we will take part, and for this step we especially need to prepare. Of course lobbying is important but it's kind of a step ahead of that, which is still waiting for us. Of course your steps can and should work parallelly. But it is particularly important how we will participate in the adoption of European Union laws or legislative acts of the European Union. Because actually our ability to influence and apply the interpretation of these laws almost doesn't exist. Part of these regulations and Directives are therefore directly applicable, so without any possibility of amending these documents. And also where we have laws on implementing regulations, actually, our influence is just formal technical nature. Therefore, once the law is passed, or a directive or regulation, then it is our option, the possibility of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, the legislative body of our country, in fact, virtually nothing. We either directly apply it to our legal system or we pass implementing laws that are of a technical nature. And that is why it is important to focus in particular on what our contribution to the adoption of the European Union law will be. And that's where we have to go again, like there were speeches when we talked about the government president's report, we have to focus well in that forest where there were speeches, regulations and procedures and see what our interest really is and where we can and should achieve some of our goals. The Prime Minister was probably right about that when he said that the highest level of governance is some process and planning is a priority. When from 100 or 200 or from several hundred processes you have to choose two or three that are most important to you and that is the highest level of management. Surely our administration at this time is unable to do so in the right way but we certainly need to go towards being active participants, to assess what our particular interest is and in this particular area to achieve our goal. Because we certainly cannot participate in the creation and modification of all European Union documents. In each process you should participate, you should be aware of it, but you certainly cannot influence part of the process and you must not lose the little energy at our disposal, so we need to determine what it should be. In that sense, the complete structure of our possible impact should be coordinated. So, it's not that, it's certainly a great influence of the council, especially what my colleague Bozinovic said at lower levels, which is lower than it is harder to coordinate. And that's where it's brought in, my colleague says 90%, he may have hit a number of European laws at the lowest level that's terribly difficult to coordinate. So that some representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, by contributing to the creation of European legislation, is on the line of some general and written national government policy. If government policies don't have you then that representative can actually be great but maybe he won't do what's in the interest because he's not actually led in the right way. So it's a big problem how to coordinate all of our contributions. Of course, there is after the government which is certainly most important there because the Council is the most important in this process and then the government and its bodies are the most important after this Parliament. The Parliament should also make its contribution through all these measures, thus examining the subsidiarity of confirming the government's position in the process of passing some documents. The impact of the commission, or our representatives on the commission, should not actually be great because by definition the commission should be independent. Representatives in the Commission must not represent national interests but there may be communication so that we can somehow get information that will help us formulate our action plan within European bodies. There is an economic and social committee and a Committee of the Regions whose impact is not great but also these bodies give their opinions on the proposals of some European Union documents. So it would be good if both these bodies and our representatives in those bodies had some kind of connection to the overall national action strategy. What it shows, of course, further confirms how complex the process is. Both ultimately and the European Parliament's MPs, regardless of which political group they belong by coming from the opposition in the Croatian schedule, can act on the adoption of those laws that the government has designated as important laws. And it's possible and it's supposed to happen. Of course it's not simple. So, representatives of the opposition in Croatian politics, so the space should be at European Parliament level sometimes or as often as possible to work towards a government policy. In doing so, their political groups are sometimes opposed, but if there is such communication then a goal can be achieved. It's not always easy to achieve. There are conflicts, sometimes representatives of national parliaments, national states in the European Parliament are in opposite positions because they are dominated by groups. But sometimes in key issues it is possible that political groups, or our representatives, of a country's political groups, agree and work together in some kind of common interest. But before that, that interest needs to be formulated and they need to be known and communicated. So it's a very complex issue, a very complex business, and there's a huge responsibility of the government and all of us actually taking part in these jobs. My colleague Mondekar was talking about the multitude of these bases, the amount of documents that are very hard to understand. But no one else has been invited to make it possible for our administration, including political officials to understand and follow it, rather than ourselves. No one else is going to do it. The media will, of course, point to some kind of illogicality, pull out something that's attractive, but it's their job. But a complete overview of all this, of finding out, of all that understanding is, of course, the political authority responsible. Of course, there are also representatives of the opposition who also have their specific interests. But everything should ultimately lead to the achievement of a common, clearly formulated national interest. Here I thought about these questions, so the ones waiting for us should talk. That's why I talked a little bit more about it. This is a process in which we can gain a lot, in which we can learn a lot and if we participate well in it, we can contribute to a further positive change in Croatia after this repeat positive change that certainly took place during our EU accession. The Croatian People's Party MPs' club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68421	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First Reverend Davor Bozinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68422	Thank you very much. Comrade Radoš, of course when we talked about the regulation, I hope we were clear, at least that I made it clear that this is not a place where it can be intervened when this regulation is adopted. Therefore, it shall apply directly. And just for direct application, here's what I did. There may be others, but it seems to me that this one is also sustainable, so the ministries in which these provisions, i.e. regulations, concern the publication of a list of regulations, that people who inform themselves of their business were farmers, fishermen, or I don't know who could come to, in one simple way to what is actually a procedural sense in their power. So those provisions that they must apply. Of course when we talk about council work, I said 70, over 70%. Data from The European Union: How does it work?" Oxford University, press 2012. I think so. I don't know if I told the author Elizabeth Bromberger. So it's a very important council, it's very important that we understand. You know what they call them in Brussels? It is these lower levels – men and women who lead Europe, man and women that lead Europe. Just because they're actually doing most of the work. The biggest part of the minister's job when they get to the council is that the nod goes through the so-called. EI points, so what has already been agreed before their arrival. But I think it's important to put emphasis on through the administration's reform of human resources education if they have to, we need to expand that personnel base. These people who work are good, but we will need them more and more not only in Brussels but also here in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68423	The replica matches Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68424	Comrade Bozinovic, I cannot agree with you that the Council is important because the Council is important. Therefore, the Council is the most important body of the EU and in the legislative process, especially in other EU-led procedures and activities, so that I agree absolutely with you. And I think that you have very well pointed out the need to take part in Council decisions, in particular the Council's lower-level legislative decisions, should be of particular interest and particular attention, because these decisions, at these levels, actually formulate decisions which are then difficult, as you said at higher levels, to change when they come closer to Council formats. It is, of course, much harder, and the same way when they reach the European Parliament, then change is no longer so simple. That's why I fully support what you said. And I also support your proposal for regulations to be monitored because it is complicated, so politicians' tasks should also be followed by top political officials to follow the whole. But of course, the task is people from individual sectors, not the task of paying the whole, but only what they're interested in, and then the authorities should be a service to these people. And I therefore certainly support that these regulations are published on the relevant electronic media of individual ministries. But at the same time, at the same time, there was no discussion in your replica, I also support your proposal that, in addition to these proposals, the coordination plan, a brief explanation of what a single law actually contains, from which the EU documents actually originate. So it would be easier and lead the debate and follow this plan of coordination in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68425	The replica will now be presented by the respected Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68426	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Radoš one fact that I, i.e. the fact that I absolutely agree that Croatia is not the same as an EU member. Many may not understand it yet, many do not want to accept it but many things we have decided during the negotiations will not return to happiness and we cannot go backwards, we can only go ahead. So, first of all, I mean the reform of the justice system that is still going on, the protection of minority and human rights, and a lot of what we've committed ourselves to by our own will that some would like to return but that's impossible because we're 28 members. What I want to point out and what I think is very important is that, through our discussions in the Croatian Parliament, we send a message to the public that in the EU, our partners, our colleagues, so the other 27 Member States always see us as a whole as well as any other country. So, not as opposition and power, but as a whole. So if the state, so if the government commits itself, any government to some kind of change, to some agreement, to some package of measures with the European Commission, then our colleagues and our friends, our partners and our family expect us to accept it together, to support it, to implement it no matter who is in power. So, as far as politics is concerned, I believe that, over time, it will release us and certain doses of hypocrisy that are sometimes present in politics. And just a small remark yet to end, not the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, but the Croatian Parliament. Here, it's important that we know for ourselves the name of the institution in which we work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68427	Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68428	My colleagues, Kosor, agree with you that in the area of justice and minority rights we also have room for improvement and law and for our conduct in general relations with these two issues, i.e. the actions of the particular judiciary. But I'm afraid we're taking a little too long on those two topics. These two topics should be long ago absorbed and then we should move on and deal with these topics which, in fact, after that basis of institutions such as general rights, so that the judicial system works a little more towards energy, agriculture, small and medium-sized enterprises, growth and employment. I would like to get somehow faster from this principled policy space, so the foundations of the political action of society enter into these issues that life means.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68429	And the last replica, the esteemed Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68430	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with you, fellow Rados, that more attention should be paid to agriculture, which I cannot do against myself. But yesterday we spoke of responsibility in the context of the debate of the Fiscal Responsibility Act. You also said today that one responsibility at these levels is needed, and it is a huge responsibility, but you have also set up an interesting thinking on coordination, which is extremely important. And I'm going to think a little loudly about this segment of agriculture. Two, three days ago, that rural development programme was sent to the European Commission, which tells us how incomprehensible our options are. One month, according to some indicators a month, a month and a half should take care of it and answer it then within six months some say that if I speak well, if you don't correct me freely, about six months to discuss competitions. Now I ask you what happens in six months, what time is it, and how much of these 330 million possibilities will we be able to use? It was similar with the paying agency, remember that we got through that we were requisition and that we slipped through the needle's ears. And I believe that there must be no gap in such things, there must be no weak coordination because it is simply extremely harmful and then what is constantly said that we have strong and great opportunities, that we have opportunities for a European market as we have heard today from 500 million consumers. I'm afraid we won't have anything to export, and we're importing everything and everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68431	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68432	Well, here's my colleague Milinkovic, you've entered another area that often dominates our problematization and thematicization of the EU, which is funds. The EU funds account for only 1% of GDP, in fact the total budget then make up a lot less for us, around 0.75% of the EU's GDP, and this legislative impact of the EU and its bodies affect more than maybe 50% of the country's GDP. And that's actually a more important question than the funds we often talk about. But when you talk about funds, what's supposed to be is that first of all, you know what's going on so that it doesn't manipulate it. And that's what we often do here. It should therefore be devoted to each report on the use of these funds in order to know exactly what contribution the administrations make to this regard. This is very difficult for us because these individual programmes, or funds, especially those from the pre-accession period, are being implemented over a period of 7 years or more. And then in that period, administrations change and you don't know what the contribution is anymore. That's why I'm calling on you to make it more effective for you and me to deal with these reports a little bit more, so that when we get the report that we know who really did it, then we can either sign him up or punish him eventually. It's not us. It's the voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68433	Thank you. I'm closing this agenda. We'll vote on it in about an hour and 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68434	Proposal for a Regulation of the Republic of Croatia to comply with the acquis for the EU for 2014. The debate on the proposal for a plan is closed. I am voting on the draft plan. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 101 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 1 abstention, have been adopted The Plan to bring the Republic of Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis for 2014 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68435	We move to the next point, which is - The Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on the Euro-Atlantic Partnership, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 558 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia and pursuant to Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session? Does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal, yes, the respected Deputy Foreign and European Minister Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68436	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. This is already the third contract that we send on the same theme to Parliament for confirmation. You remember already confirmed the Euro-Atlantic partnership agreement with Moldova and Montenegro. These contracts are carried out daily, especially intensive co-operation based on this contract with Montenegro which has started negotiations and which is really using our advice and our technical assistance that we are sending to this context. You are therefore facing a Euro-Atlantic partnership agreement between the Republic of Macedonia, so it is also a manifestation, a reflection of our policy towards our neighbours, a policy of assistance on their way to the EU, all those countries have declared their desire to join the EU, and we also believe that it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to join us neighbouring countries and those from a little further neighbourhood in the EU, thus expanding one area of stability, one space of prosperity, and we allow for easier cooperation on both economic, educational, cultural and other fields. This contract was signed on 31st of May 2013 in Ohrid and here we propose it to the Parliament for ratification. The objective of the treaty is therefore to help Macedonia, which has not yet started negotiations, we all know, has not started in spite of the European Commission's recommendation, the European Council has decided on this, delayed its decision for 2014, now Greece is presidening as we know it, so here we are still waiting for a formal decision to start Macedonia's EU accession negotiations and we thought that we should start the process of assistance, technical and political assistance for Macedonia, and in this context we are also proposing this agreement for confirmation in the Parliament. We believe that it should help Macedonia to establish a quality infrastructure, institutional infrastructure, to better train Macedonian experts who will participate in negotiations with the EU, we believe that we can also help in the field of public information in EU accession, Macedonia, we think that this is how we can make it easier on the very course of negotiations when they begin and that we can contribute to more effective harmonisation of Macedonia's national legislation with the European acquis. We have one advantage over all other practical EU members, and this is that in all of our Southeast Europe more or less understands Croatian so that we can really get to all levels of government that need specific advice or technical assistance, we, as you know, have already submitted the translations of the acquis to our neighbours as is very useful to them. Therefore, we can help them because they understand us well, and many things that are a question of harmonisation of legislation with the European acquis will come across similar problems that we have often encountered from the fact that we were once in a legal system so that when the law is aligned with the acquis, there are similar problems. As for the start of Macedonia's negotiations with the EU, it is still unknown, what Croatia is trying to be constructive in this regard and try not to block further talks or start negotiations by resolving the name issue, we know that this is a fundamental problem constitutionally named Macedonia, we are trying to go with proposals that the name issue may be a criterion for closing negotiations and not for opening negotiations, we are not deciding on it ourselves, but with all other EU members, and until there is a consensus, probably the European Council will not make a decision. I'm contracting that's here today at the confirmation, it doesn't need to be provided with additional funding from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68437	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the HNS club will speak for a respected colleague, Boris Blazekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68438	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Klisovic. By confirming the contract between the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia on the Euro-Atlantic partnership, Croatia once again proves its wish but also the country's real state of mind, the countries facing co-operation, co-operation and various forms of partnership related to the security and stability of the region. In Macedonia's relations, Croatia further enriches genuine friendly ties. The proposed agreement further obliges both countries in its 6 articles on Macedonia's EU-NATO accession partnership. Croatia is particularly committed to helping Macedonia with its own experiences on its way, but with full readiness. The clear goal is for Macedonia to pass this thorny path as painlessly as possible, as easily and as quickly as possible. The situation of the VETA of Greece at Macedonia's accession to NATO membership is well known. Unfortunately, Macedonia's external political failure destabilized on the internal plan, awakened nationalism of all kinds, and hastily stalled institutional and economic reforms, damage. But Macedonia remains on track for Euro-Atlantic integration, clearly today are much more complex conditions and it is therefore important that Croatia has promised and this contract provides Macedonia with its assistance. Since the beginning of the '90s, our region has been a dreary and unstable area, the war has been imposed on Croatia, BiH, Kosovo is doing terrible evil to people in these areas. Physically, homes, settlements, and cities were destroyed and people were killed as the worst, resulting in a real exodus of refugees and displaced persons. Many people and families have not and will never return to their former homes and their former homelands. There are too many deaths and too many atrocities have been done in these areas, all of which remain to a greater or lesser extent burdening countries' relations in the region, and thus security and stability. And the transition from one-party to multilateralism itself, from communism to capitalism is an extremely complex and stressful process, but it is still burdened with war-destructive consequences, the process itself is multilayerly more difficult and complicated. This leads us to have two countries today in an environment where international political, police and military forces are in order to preserve peace and order in them. It's BiH and Kosovo. This is a clear indicator of the sensitivity of the region, of the sensitivity of the region. At a meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Dubrovnik in October last year at a meeting of the Political Committee, the French parliamentarian claimed that NATO and the international community's focus was removed from the area because the job was completed in the Balkans. The Croatian Minister of Foreign and European Affairs has rightly objected to him by saying that such an approach, and based on centuries of experience, until the whole issue of Kosovo, and in particular BiH, is resolved, could be fatal and that in the adventure of raising hands from the Balkans and NATO and the EU, in no way should they engage. The issue of security and stability of the Balkans will appear to be fully resolved only after all Balkan countries are fully members of the EU or NATO. Therefore, contracts such as the proposed contract between the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia are particularly important for further stabilisation of the region. And the overall communication on the security and stability plan between the countries of the region is unusually important and beneficial. In order to inform the general public about not enough known initiatives and organisations, we from the HNS believe that we should be referred to two of us extremely important and high-quality. First is the American-Adriatic Charter. The US-Adriatic Charter is an initiative that helped Croatia and Albania and Macedonia prepare for full NATO membership. In the early 2000s, Croatia, Albania and Macedonia decided to continue their efforts to co-operate with each other in the spirit... The group also speeds up the process of joining the Alliance as part of the NATO Action Plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On May 3, 2003, the US-Adriatic Charter was signed in Tirana. The Charter was signed by the foreign ministers of three countries and US Secretary of State Colin Powell. The Charter formalises US support for the three countries on their path to NATO and envisions trilateral co-operation to meet the requirements for future entry into the Alliance. The Charter called on the Alliance to assess the country's progress according to the individual achievement of each signatories' state. The document underlines the importance of strengthening democracy and minority rights to combat terrorism, cross-border crime and weapons of mass solution encourages the start of armed forces reforms in three countries, and their mutual military co-operation. The Charter established a Partnership Commission that sets up political guidelines for mutual co-operation. The Partnership Commission consists of once to twice a year at the level of foreign ministers or their assistants. The character, scope and level of activity within the Charter is very wide, from high-level delegations meetings, expert meetings to military exercises with a large number of participants. Under the scope of the most comprehensive cooperation in the area of defence and security. The 2008 initiative was joined by BiH and Montenegro. And secondly, particularly important, and in public also insufficiently known Center for Security Cooperation is the only international organisation with permanent accommodation on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the Rakviak Centre. The Raquiyak initiative, based in the Republic of Croatia in the military in Rakitije near Zagreb, launched in '99. the year of the Federal Republic of Germany. The Agreement establishing the Raquiyaks was concluded between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Germany on 8 March 2001 in the framework of the Stability Pact. Rakijak has started acting as a multinational regional headquarters to assist in implementing the arms control agreement in the countries of Southeast Europe. Taking into account the continued development and change in the security environment, in the field of Southeast Europe, the abolition of the Stability Pact and the strengthening of the so-called "Stabilities" Regional ownership, interested countries of the Southeast European co-operation process have joined the reorganisation and reconstruction of the Rakwiyaks. The contract, a new agreement on Rakviak, the Centre for Security Co-operation, was signed in Budva on 14 April 2010 by Albania, BiH, Montenegro, Croatia, Macedonia, Serbia, Turkey and Romania. The Treaty entered into force on 1 December 2011. Under that new contract, a member of the Rakwiyaks have an obligation to second the staff, to pay the membership fee and are the only one in charge of making decisions. From establishment to today, Rakwijak has grown from a multinational regional centre to help implement the arms control agreement in the countries of Southeast Europe at the Centre for Security Co-operation, a single international organisation related to promoting stability and security in the region. The main focus of Rakviak's action by 2015 will be security sector reform, international and regional co-operation on faster integration of the countries of the region into the European and Euro-Atlantic integration of these security cooperations of the countries of the region in the area of arms control. The Republic of Croatia has a great interest with full and active support for the Raquiak. Since the headquarters of this international organisation in Zagreb, Rakitije, while at the same time the area of action of the Rakwiyaks, stability and security in the region is one of the most important external political priorities of the Republic of Croatia. And in the end, we in the CNS think that the environment in which we live is so-called. our region, still a very thorny area, and therefore every creation to establish greater, closer and more constructive cooperation between the countries of the region is simply good news. Therefore, the HNS club of Liberal Democrats will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68439	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected Davor Bozinovic will speak. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68440	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will use this point not to trouble the content of the agreement, because there is nothing to be troubled here but to support the Republic of Macedonia on its way to the EU and NATO on the side of the HDZ club. I think it is one of the key issues for the stability of Southeast Europe and it is therefore good for Croatia to continue what it has been doing for many years, which is that it helps Macedonia and not only Macedonia, of course, to take the path it has drawn and has been going since the beginning of the 1990s. I will remind you that also because of the fact that the early deployment of international forces in Macedonia, due to the fact that Macedonia escaped the war from large-scale Serbian cuisine, Macedonia was the closest to Euro-Atlantic integration of all Southeast European countries that were left alone at the time and sought their connection to Western integration. Unfortunately, she stopped on the road, stopped due to the blockade, due to an open name issue. We were together in Bucharest in 2009, still Macedonia, and at that time, the NATO summit for Croatia was expecting an invitation, and that day a broken decision was broken so that Macedonia would not be invited together with Croatia and Albania at that time of NATO membership. However, we must not forget Macedonia, a country with which we are not and have no open questions, regardless of what is said in the first point of this agreement that we will deal with good neighbourly relations with open issues, but it is a type of agreement so it definitely does not apply to Macedonia. Croatia is a member of both NATO and the EU, and in this sense it also has a responsibility to Macedonia to say in three ways it will contribute to integration and progress and countries towards membership in NATO and the EU is one thing to continue what the previous government continued, and I think Mrs Kosor will talk about it a little later, which is that with concrete examples such as handing over the EU acquis and at expert levels helping Macedonia. I know there are a whole series of groups going to Macedonia, which receive experts from Macedonia to prepare them for what awaits them one day when they join the EU. The second is Croatia's action towards partners in NATO and the EU. Croatia must constantly and tirelessly lobby for Macedonia because Macedonia deserves to be there. And the third would specifically refer to this, perhaps most importantly, as Croatia operates within NATO and within the EU. This picture Croatia is making of itself in those who make a decision has a much greater importance than we are sometimes aware of for ourselves of their evaluations and decisions on future enlargement of the EU and NATO to other countries of the region, including in this case the Republic of Macedonia. So, from the position of representatives of the HDZ Club, we want all the best Macedonia and we will vote in favour of this agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68441	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Dunja Spoljar, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68442	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So Croatia and Macedonia have long-standing friendly relations and very successful and defence co-operation dating back to the time of partnership for peace and the beginning of membership in the US-Adriatic Charter. Support for the countries of Southeast Europe on their way to European and Euro-Atlantic integration, and in favour of the stability and security of all countries, societies and citizens is categorical. Croatia's and Macedonia's co-operation was improved during 2013, thus strengthening co-operation on the economic plan. In October of last year, Macedonia's economy minister met in Zagreb with a Croatian counterpart, and ministers discussed future co-operation on the two countries' trade plan. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce of Macedonia signed an Agreement on the Cooperation of Two Chambers in Skopje in November 2013. Tourism Minister Darko Lorencin received an ambassador to Macedonia in June 2013 and discussed strengthening cooperation between tourist agencies in Croatia and Macedonia with the aim of increasing the number of arrivals. In December 2013, the Ministry of Health in Zagreb signed a cooperation plan between the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Macedonia in the field of health and medicine from 2013 to '16, aimed at promoting further cooperation. This Euro-Atlantic agreement will further strengthen Croatia's and Macedonia's good relations and contribute to strengthening co-operation as it supports Macedonia to follow and continue Croatia's path to the European Union as soon as possible. And as the deputy himself stated by providing assistance, so in meeting the criteria, thus contributing to effective harmonisation of national legislation, facilitating the adaptation of institutional infrastructure and helping to develop a process of quality and timely information to the public or media, through the media. The defence co-operation between Croatia and Macedonia is high and bilateral relations between the defence ministry, the two countries will also be strengthened by this agreement. Croatia strongly supports Macedonia and, on its path to full NATO membership, Macedonia has implemented and implemented reforms and participates in peacekeeping operations that Croatia, with NATO open door policy, encourages both NATO and the EU to point out that Macedonia but also Montenegro should join the alliance. Croatia and Macedonia have many defence points of co-operation, such as exchange of experiences in military education, possible joint education of officers or co-operation in NATO's ISAF mission in Afghanistan and other operations. Military technical cooperation in the context of NATO's so-called principle is also feasible. smart defenses, especially in remounting and modernising tanks and helicopters, of course with the aim of saving. So the political readiness to co-operate with the construction of Croatia and Macedonia's Euro-Atlantic partnership is undeniable. On 31 May 2013, a contract was signed in Ohrid between Croatia and Macedonia on a Euro-Atlantic partnership establishing the necessary international framework for the co-operation of the two countries in the process of accession of the Republic of Macedonia to the European Union and NATO. This Proposal for a Law confirms that contract or confirms a high level of bilateral relations based on mutual trust and respect. As well as the previous two debates of the HNS and HDZ Clubs, this one is aimed at supporting Macedonia, joining the European Union in NATO and the SDP Club will therefore support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68443	Now we still have to hear the views of Club Jadranka Kosor and HGS. They will be presented by a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68444	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a lot to be said, it should once again be pointed out that the Republic of Croatia strongly supports and I think that there really is, which I am very pleased with the absolute consensus in both the Croatian Parliament and the Republic of Macedonia on its Euro-Atlantic path. I would like to remind you that at the end of our negotiations for entry into the European Union, we have further stressed that as a state, we will not ask bilateral questions, and we will not pose any bilateral question as an obstacle to our neighbours on their Euro-Atlantic path. So we emphasized this several times, but also through the document of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, where we clearly wrote it, we chose and voted for it. Among other things, the decision was also on the trail of our hard experience with neighbouring Slovenia. So I remind you that in July 2009, therefore, here I am talking about the mandate of the government that I led to the fact that the Republic of Slovenia blocked as many as 14 chapters, 14 to 35 chapters that we had to complete, so to open and close in order to become a member of the European Union. The Republic of Slovenia, a friendly country has blocked 14. Some others, of course, had reservations about chapter 23, but here we are talking about the neighborhood, the good neighborhood. It was a question of boundaries, so a difficult and painful question that no one had solved for 18 years, it was somehow a question of any one being placed in the seal. We've been able to work out how we're going to solve this issue. And of course it then paved the way for the continuation of negotiations, the opening and closing of chapters, the fulfilment of the criteria and ultimately the conclusion of the negotiations. So, we who have been through a difficult experience understand very much the difficulties that those who want to get to the end of the Euro-Atlantic path are facing. A colleague of Bozinovic, who was part of the team who participated with me in solving the problem with Slovenia, mentioned the donation of the acquis earlier. It was the same symbolic gesture of the government but a gesture which was actually a strong political message because the two governments, so Mr. Pahor and I started amongst others and so on. A hilly process where we managed to gather most of the representatives, the highest representatives here are the countries of Southeast Europe. And right then, I symbolically handed over the translation of the acquis later to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in Zagreb. So the translation of the acquis that meant we want to help you. We have invested 8 million euros in this business, we give it to you so that you can see now which direction to go. And that is why we are very supportive of this Agreement because it stands for one framework in which two governments and other institutions will move in support. Support should first and foremost relate to the transfer of experiences. It is important that Macedonia takes the Euro-Atlantic route and finish it. It is important because of peace and stability in this part of Europe. We understand very well, very well. But sometimes it seems to me that even lightly we forget why it was so important to join both NATO and the EU. We forget the fundamental values, for example, of the EU. It's peace and stability. Croatia, which has suffered so badly because of the large Serb Milosevic's policy, understands that peace and stability are important. That's where it all starts. Therefore, this is why we want any support, or we want to prove this support actively and through this agreement. The Republic of Macedonia deserves to start negotiations, finish negotiations, become a member of the EU and NATO alliance. And, of course, I point out what is part of this agreement, and that is to highlight the importance of individual approach in assessing the fulfilment of the criteria on the road both in the EU and NATO. The message ended with friends and colleagues in Macedonia courageously and resolutely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68445	Thank you. And I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68446	Final proposal of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on the Euro-Atlantic Partnership, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 558. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that, unanimously with 105 votes, the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Macedonia on the Euro-Atlantic Partnership in the text was adopted, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68447	We move on to the next point and we'll try to finish the debate if the clubs use the time rationally until 12:00 when we vote. And if we don't, then we'll stop this debate at 12:00, and we'll continue it after the vote. So we move on to - Final Bill on Confirmation of the Treaty on arms trafficking, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 589. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Foreign and European Affairs Minister Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68448	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the arms trade contract is proposed in order to bring its provisions into line within the meaning of Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution, with the Constitution or become part of the internal order, of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia joined the contract on June 3rd for a signing ceremony at the UN headquarters. On the same day, 23 EU Member States joined the treaty. Although formally proposed by the adoption of that regulation, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs will appear for its implementation, the authorities of the State Administration will be in accordance with the Law on the Control of Transport of Military Use Goods and Non-military Murderous Assets, which determines the area of the arms trade contract, which are the ministries responsible for the business of the economy, defence, internal affairs, foreign affairs and customs, or finance. Confirmation of the contract does not require the adoption of new or amending existing laws and does not provide for the provision of additional funding from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, but is subject to confirmation since it is an international contract in accordance with the Law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts. It establishes for the first time a common legally binding standard for the import, export and transfer of conventional weapons and makes arms trade more globally responsible and transparent by reducing the legal space of illegal arms trafficking. Its entry into force, which requires 50 ratifications, is one of the EU's security, trade and development priorities. EU legislation sets globally the strictest criteria for exports, imports and transfers of conventional weapons and is considered a gold standard. The national laws of all Member States of the Union are, of course, in line with EU legislation, so is Croatia. To all EU Member States, the faster the entry into force of the arms trade treaty, except for political and high economic importance, in order to make global arms trade more equal for all exporters and importers. The arms trade contract contains provisions on the ban on exports, assessment of export risk, obligations on imports, transport and cargo, risk-sharing, detour, establishment, keeping records of import and export licences issued and transfers of conventional weapons. Given that the relevant EU legal acts contain provisions that are in line with the conclusion and enforcement of the arms trade agreement, the confirmation of the same does not require the adaptation of national legislation by EU Member States, which allows for the accelerated procedure of national parliaments, in parliaments for validation. Those provisions and obligations under the arms trade contract in the Republic of Croatia shall be implemented through the application of the Law on the Control of the Transport of Military Goods, that is, the goods of military use and non-wary means of killing. According to our permanent mission in New York, there is a proposal that EU Member States jointly hand over their instruments to confirm the depositary, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, as soon as conditions are obtained and possible in March. National procedures need to be completed. Before that, of course, certifications in the Member States as well as the approval of the European Parliament on the basis of which the decision of the EU Council will be adopted. We think that might be foreseen in February. In addition to the above arguments for the early adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on arms trade in the rhythm of other EU members and European institutions, I would like to remind Croatia this year that this year is chaired by the Commission for Disarmament in New York, which is why our actions have increased visibility and significance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68449	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS club, the respected Boris Blazekovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68450	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Klisovic. The proposal for a law confirming the arms trade treaty that we are discussing today is a good opportunity to consider the position of the Republic of Croatia as a component of the world's network of security and stability. It has already been said several times, but it is never too bad to repeat that security and stability in a particular area is a fundamental prerequisite for any development and progress of states and societies. How important it is for Croatia too, we see from the current economic but overall political situation. To impose a bloody aggressive war on us, and we feel all the consequences of the same, and we will feel for a long time. Mostly in human victims, displaced persons and destroyed objects, as well as the consequences of poor and often criminally driven transitions and robbery in privatisation where virtually destroyed entire branches of the economy and large industrial plants. Tourism was then remembered because of the war conditions overnight was simply gone. And the mere listing of just a few facts from our own experience shows how much security and stability are at stake for normal life, for the development of the country and for its citizens. And that is why it is important and good that Croatia participates in a number of processes within all relevant international organisations related to increasing security in the world. The arms trade treaty adopted the UN General Assembly on 2 April 2013 with a large majority of votes following a six-year multilateral negotiating process under the auspices of the UN. The Republic of Croatia participated in the negotiation process, voted in favour of the adoption of the General Assembly contract on 2 April 2013, and signed it on 3 June 2013 at the signing ceremony held at the UN headquarters in New Experience, says how much security and stability are felt for normal life, the country's development and its citizens. And that is why it is important and good that Croatia participates in a number of processes within all relevant international organisations related to increasing security in the world. The arms trade treaty adopted the UN General Assembly on 2 April 2013 with a large majority of votes following a six-year multilateral negotiating process under the auspices of the UN. The Republic of Croatia participated in the negotiation process, voted in favour of the adoption of the General Assembly contract on 2 April 2013, and signed it on 3 June 2013 at a signing ceremony held at the UN headquarters in New York at the same time as most EU member states. The arms trade treaty establishes common legally binding standards for the import, export and transfer of conventional weapons and makes arms trade more responsible and transparent. Taking into account the objectives and the achievement of the arms trade agreement, its entry into force is a security and trade priority within the EU and it is therefore important that Member States close their internal legal procedures as soon as possible, so that, following the prior consent of the European Parliament, the decision of the EU Council authorising Member States on those issues which enter the area of exclusive competence of the EU to ratify the EU arms trade agreement in the interest of the EU, they can place their instruments of ratification with depositors and thus show consent to be tied to the arms trade agreement. In the Republic of Croatia, this area has been governed by the Law on the Control of Military Use and Non-military Murders, which has been in force since July 2013. In the HNS, we believe that in order to better understand but also properly inform the general public that it is necessary to read out loud the preamble of the contract itself. States of the Party to this Treaty led by the objectives, with the principles of the UN Charter reminding us of Article 26. The UN Charter promoting the establishment and maintenance of international peace and security with as little separation as possible of human and economic sources of the world for arms, stressing the need for prevention, eradication of illicit trafficking in conventional weapons and preventing it from being directed towards an illegal market, unauthorised use and unauthorized end-users, including in the initiation of terrorist acts, recognising the legitimate political security, economic and commercial interests of states in international trade in conventional weapons, reaffirming the sovereign right of each country to regulate and control conventional weapons solely in its own territory in accordance with its own legal or constitutional order. Confirming that peace and security, development and human rights are pillars of the UN system and the basis for collective security, and recognising that development, peace and security and human rights are interlinked and mutually strengthened. Recalling the UN Commission's guidelines on disarmament of international arms transfers in the context of the General Assembly Resolution since December 1991, applying the contribution of the UN's action programme to prevent, combat and eradicate all forms of illegal trafficking in small and light firearms as well as the anti-trafficking protocols, its parts and components, as well as ammunition complementing the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and an international instrument enabling countries to identify and find illegal small and light weapons in a timely and reliable manner. Recognizing the security social, economic and humanitarian consequences of illegal and disorderly trafficking in conventional weapons, given that a large amount of people affected by armed conflicts, armed violence is made up of civilians, especially women and children. Recognising the challenges faced by victims of armed conflict and their need for adequate care, recovery and social and economic inclusion, stressing that nothing in this Treaty prevents the state from retaining or adopting additional effective measures to improve the objectives and purposes of this Treaty, bearing in mind legitimate trade and legal ownership and the use of certain conventional weapons for recreational, cultural, historical and sport activities when such trade is owned and used by law is permitted and protected. Keeping in mind the role that regional organisations may play in assisting parties on their request to implement this contract. Recognising an active role that, on a voluntary basis, in raising awareness of the objectives and purpose of this Treaty and its implementation, civil society including NGOs and industry can play by confirming that the regulation of international trade in conventional weapons and the prevention of its abuse should not interfere with international cooperation and legitimate trade in military supplies, equipment and technology intended for peaceful purposes. Noting that it was desirable to achieve general respect for the provisions of this Treaty to act decisively in accordance with the following principles: inalienable law of all countries,... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The UN Charter, the resolution of international disputes by means of peaceful means in a way that does not endanger international peace and security and justice in accordance with Article 2(3). The UN Charter of Restraint in its international relations from the threat of force and from the use of force directed against territorial integrity or political independence by any State or in any other way compatible with the UN objectives in accordance with Article 2(4) of the Treaty on European Union, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Charter of the UN, respecting the assurance of respect for international humanitarian rights, inter alia in accordance with the Geneva Convention of 49, and respecting, ensuring and respecting human rights in accordance with, inter alia, the Charter of Human Rights and the General Declaration of Human Rights, the responsibility of all States in accordance with their respective international obligations for the effective, legal regulation of international trade in commercial weapons and the prevention of its abuse, which is the primary responsibility of all States for the establishment and implementation of their own national control systems, respecting the legitimate interests of the State for the purchase of commercial weapons in order to exercise the right to self-defense, for the purposes of operations to preserve peace and for the production of exports, imports and transfer of commercial weapons in a consistent, objective and non-discriminatory manner of this Treaty. Finally, the application of the arms trade contract is expected to significantly contribute to stronger global control of arms flows with the aim of curbing illegal trade in commercial weapons and also contribute to the preservation of human rights and to improving the conditions for achieving global development objectives. Due to all of the above, the HNS Club of Liberal Democrats will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68451	Drazen Djurovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68452	Yes, a colleague here is an international contract where the Republic of Croatia runs in the first round of states to support it. It is the Republic of Croatia who has experienced on its skin what it means to be under an unjustly imposed embargo on the import of weapons. It is the Republic of Croatia, which itself had to, because of an unfairly imposed embargo and import that weapon through certain channels, and whether the Republic of Croatia is today the first or the first few UN member states to jump out with the ratification of such an international contract, or the Republic of Croatia may still have to wait for the circle of those countries that first must actually ratify that contract to be slightly extended, and then the Republic of Croatia to be somewhere in the group of states. I think that just the historical experience that we as the Republic of Croatia have with an unfairly imposed embargo and the need to import weapons are in spite of this embargo should be one fact that we should bear in mind as a state in the ratification of such international contracts and whether a good intention that is full of the proposal of this international treaty may and some other country that will fight for its independence lead to a situation that will find itself in a situation similar to those of the Republic of Croatia only the conditions that these international contracts will set up and that is why I am not sure that we, who should have been right after the beginning of the ratification rules, are jumping out of the first few countries that ratify on such a contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68453	Replication response, Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68454	So first, this contract has absolutely nothing to do with any embargo anywhere in the world, precisely because of this better understanding of the contract which is, I have read the whole preamble to make it more clear what it is because this preamble specifically speaks about the sovereignty of the countries to decide on certain matters itself regarding the use of or use of weapons and all other aspects related to conventional weapons. And this time let me personally express my pride that Croatia is among the rights in such situations. I express my pride that the Croatian country leading any kind of weapons, against any kind of weapons as a convinced pacifist but fully aware that real situations that unfortunately without weapons today cannot be governed by any state policy with a full understanding of the existence of an organisation such as NATO, are my sincere desire that Croatia, whenever it can make a small contribution and be among the leaders where the amount of weapons will be reduced, where it will be controlled traffic and the sale of these weapons will ultimately serve solely for defence purposes on all meridians of this and the parallels of this globe.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68455	On behalf of SDP representative Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68456	Thank you, esteemed vice president, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the arms trade contract. Chronologically speaking, the arms trade agreement was adopted on 2 April 2013 by the UN General Assembly with a large majority of votes following the six-year multilateral UN negotiation process. The Republic of Croatia participated in the process and voted in favour of the adoption of the contract at the General Assembly on 2 April of the same year and signed it on 3 June. So far, the contract has been signed by 113 members and 7 have been deposited with depositaries of his ratification papers. The arms trade agreement will enter into force 90 days after the date of the 50th correct ratification and acceptance or approval by depositaries. Since the arms trade agreement regulates the issue which is in part in the exclusive competence of the EU and, in part, within the competence of the Member States and since the EU cannot become a party of the same kind, Member States are not in a position to decide independently on the signing and ratification of the arms trade agreement, but can take those actions at international level after the decision and approval of the Council of the EU, adopted on a proposal from the European Commission. In this context, there is a need for the EU institutions and Member States to cooperate to take all necessary measures to ratify the arms trade agreement and ensure the implementation of the obligations arising from that contract. On 22 July last year, the Council addressed the European Parliament to the decision to ratify the arms trade agreement by EU Member States. After receiving consent from the European Parliament, the Council of the EU will make a decision authorising Member States to ratify the arms trade agreement. On 10 October last year, the European Parliament authorised the Committee on Foreign Trade to consider a proposal from the European Commission, which is then referred to the EU Council for adoption. According to the dynamics of the work of the European Parliament and of the Council of the EU, this process should be completed at the beginning of this year, after which EU Member States and the Republic of Croatia can also pass the ratification of the depositary. The Republic of Croatia, as well as other EU members, is regulating the issue of arms trafficking in accordance with relevant EU acts that are in line with the arms trade agreement. With us, this area has been governed by the Law on the Control of Military Use and Non-military Murders, which has been in force since 6 July 2013. And only in information, the objective of this Treaty is to establish the most common international standards for the regulation or improvement of international trade in conventional weapons and to prevent and eradicate illicit trade in conventional weapons and to prevent its abuse, and to contribute to international and regional peace, security and stability, to reduce human suffering and to promote the cooperation and transparency of the responsible activities of the parties in international trade in conventional weapons, thereby building trust among States parties. As I have already stated, this contract applies to conventional weapons divided into the following categories, battle tanks and armored vehicles, a large-caliber artillery system, fighter aircraft, helicopters, warships, rockets and rocket launchers, and small and light weapons. Also on arms trafficking, they do not apply to situations where a State party has moved conventional weapons for its own use or does so on its behalf, provided that that conventional weapon remains owned by that State. I will not speak of the contract itself any more, but I will finally note that the implementation of this law does not require additional funding and the SDP Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the arms trade contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68457	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68458	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here, as in the previous case, I came out here after a pay phone to support, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the ratification of this agreement, which is a very important agreement that has long been negotiated, some eight years, and perhaps one of the historical achievements of the world organisation, the UN organisation that has actually succeeded for the first time with one vast majority of votes to adopt a convention that regulates a very important problem. I don't think anybody said anything here, so I'll say it. It's about 70 billion dollars a year. And, of course, that fact as well as anything else that goes with weapons, its use and trade in weapons deserves to be regulated at the world level. So far, there have been some other attempts, but never so comprehensive and never like this, so for UN standards relatively quickly, in a relatively fast procedure adopted international conventions. Given that there have been some dissonant tones here, I would say that this convention does not prevent what someone can legitimately ask themselves if it is some kind of freeing pro-democracy movement, is that why they are suspended by the adoption of this Convention, given that they are signatories to the Convention of a Member State? No, they're not. Not all Member States have even signed this Convention. No, they voted against, or prevented consensus on this convention. Iran, Syria and North Korea, and some important members abstained from voting precisely because this convention in their opinion does not prevent aid, as they say, from rebel or terrorist groups, we would call them somehow different from our position of understanding democracy in third countries. So it is quite the opposite, and therefore the Convention is not supported by everyone in the first stage, it was there somewhere in 2012 and a lot more countries and we closer countries that opposed it, and in the meantime the circumstances have changed and what is said here may be one of the better examples of how the EU has succeeded in a very important topic both for itself and for international peace and for international security. The EU is likely the strongest peaceful force in today's world to succeed in its diplomacy, to enable its lobbying to be signed by the EU's most important allies. In this context, it is important that the EU or the EU Member States are signatories as soon as they show their commitment to such a document, and in this sense I do not really see any obstacles to making the Republic of Croatia do what is expected of it both as a member of the EU and as a country facing war and aggression, which understands very well what international relations are about in international security relations and in this sense we will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68459	Drazen Djurovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68460	Thank you. I will remind you only once more that it is not forgotten that some people have been tried and convicted for this and beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia for participating in the assistance of the Republic of Croatia in the procurement of defence weapons. I will also remind myself of how some of the very important members of the international community assessed and evaluated in the beginnings of the Croatian defence legitimacy and legality and the defence that the Republic of Croatia had at the time and which were the formal legal obstacles that challenged the legitimacy of the rights of the Republic of Croatia to obtain weapons. I do not doubt that we should sign and participate in this convention as a member of the EU, but I am expressing my skepticism that we should be the head of signing and among the first EU members who have to sign these conventions because we still have a historical experience, we have had one problem. And as a state, if you will in one time, we have gone against the need to defend our sovereignty and set up our country against the positions that the international community has taken. So you have a number of examples that countries have their own historical experience and then they don't rush to sign some documents contrary to this historical experience, not a duo that the community to which they belong, so he'll eventually sign it, but he won't be among the first. So I don't think in this kind of thing, there's a double to the good intentions of the Republic of Croatia that should be amongst the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68461	The reply to the replica Davor Bozinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68462	I agree with you, but again I'm trying to say things are a little different set up. Let's not go into any historical debates about it right now. You have mainly stated the important facts in the general categories. What you did not state is that there was no regulated arms trade at the level of the world organisation, at the UN level that mentions humanitarian intervention in this text, humanitarian reasons, and when we talk about international law, it was the basis on which the international community when engaged on the right side primarily in BiH based its intervention. Until then, it was from the aspect of international law and the UN Charter that I should say in a gray zone that had written books on whether those who helped BiH had those who helped Kosovo violated international law. So the thing isn't exactly what it looks like on the first hand. I am thinking right now because of our experience and membership in the EU, but also because of our experience that this is also the reason to support a convention like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68463	On behalf of the club of independent representative Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68464	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I'm going to continue what my colleague Bozinovic said in the replica just now. Yes, I just think that because of our experience, our historical experience, our hard experience, our bloody experience, and the fact that we are a member of both the NATO Alliance and the EU that we need to accept this document, that we need to accept it, that we need to confirm it and that we need to implement it. However, I would like to report to point out one fact that is clearly evident from the reasons for this bill. That fact should be repeated, therefore, it recalls, among other things, when we became a member of the UN as a state, so in May of '92. Before that, we were internationally admitted, so this chronology that is listed here should once again offer us to be more proud of what we are of what we have done, of what we have achieved, so from the bloody war, than the international recognition of '92 entering the UN and then to all other international institutions. And I remind you of '92 when we became a member of the UN it was still far from '98, for example. in January when we just returned Vukovar constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, after a peaceful reintegration. So these are really great achievements, and then in 2009, NATO's Alliance member, the chairman, the non-permanent member of the Security Council, chairing the 2009 and ultimately EU member states. So these documents remind us of this recent history, of what we've done, of course and in the context of the fact that we've been exposed to arms imports, that we've actually been bare-handedly defending ourselves, and that's why I think we'd return that confidence that we need to solve many economic difficulties really needs more and more determination and confidence. A country and a people who do so much work, such a great deal of work in such a short time, and so the impossible conditions are doomed to be successful. Certainly support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68465	Thank you very much. Deputy Secretary, would you like some? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. My colleagues and colleagues, a short break until 12:00 when I ask that we gather to vote on the debated points. Thank you. It's 11:00.53.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-31-0.u68466	Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the arms trade contract, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 589 The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 105 votes, a law has been passed on the confirmation of the arms trade agreement in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Dear colleagues and respected fellow MPs. So we exhausted the vote at today's session. We will now stop and announce a plenary session on Tuesday 4 February this year, a report on the work of the HRT programme council and implementation of the programme principles and obligations of HRT with b, c, d and e reports. Should I read? No, I don't. That's what we'll put together if we make a deal at the beginning. Okay. Thank you very much. Session adjourned at 13.50 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:55 A.M.]] Please club representatives, first respected representative Jasen Mesic on behalf of the HDZ Club in the Croatian Parliament.
