ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80427	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day and we begin to discuss - Final proposal of the Law on Measurement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 651 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Economy, and you received reports at the session. On behalf of the proposer, the final bill will be explained by Deputy Economy Minister Mr. Allen Leveric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80428	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, here is the purpose of adopting this law is to establish a reasonable unity in the Republic of Croatia and, of course, to establish trust in the results of measurements carried out to protect consumers, the lives and health of people, animals, environmental protection, general security and the protection of natural resources, and to promote free trade and remove possible barriers and barriers to trade. It is precisely due to the achievement of these objectives in this proposal that a clear and transparent system of transfer of public powers is introduced,... of legal criteria leaving the existing system which enables legal persons to be authorised despite compliance with the prescribed conditions and thus... legal criteria and the preparation of assurance criteria in the best and most efficient way possible. The most important thing is the fact that under the new law, the State Bureau of Measurement would no longer have the right to discretionary assessment, not to adopt a solution to approval in the event of a legal person meeting all the prescribed conditions. According to the existing law, i.e. the provision of Article 42, paragraph 2 of the current Measurement Act, which explicitly states that legal entities which meet the conditions for authorisation do not have to be all authorised. Legal uncertainty, non-transparency and the highest discretionary right of the head of the body is created to decide whether any right person who has invested in all the necessary equipment and training of the staff to carry out the tasks of certifying legal criteria is required. With this draft law, such practice ceases, and should it be noted that during the last two years, the Government of the Institute has not authorised any legal person to have the needs of the current law precisely for the reason that the issue would not occur... and the decision to transfer powers. In this way, it will allow the owners of the criteria to carry out the verification procedure more quickly and efficiently, either by the State Bureau of Measurement, either by the authorised body, which protects the interests of the consumer and their trust in the results, measuring the amount of goods and the value of the services. It will also enable domestic producers of legal criteria to verify the criteria to include their production process, meeting all the criteria of professional training and... being able to assure the criteria from their own production and thus facilitate their own business. This proposal for a law would therefore resolve the issue of precise definition of the tasks of the bodies carrying out the measuring operations, the approval procedure, the type of criterion and the assurance of the legal criteria. Furthermore, this would further strengthen the role of the measurement inspection precisely in order to provide for more precise inspection, self-examination, types of inspectors, the conditions that inspectors must comply with and the infringements themselves. It is precisely this proposal for a measuring law that would create preconditions for staffing the measurement inspection. Infringement provisions have increased the amount of fines due to the harmonisation of the Measurement Act with the provisions of the infringement law, and all in order to increase consumer protection... means of general and special prevention, abuse of legal standards as well as abuses transferred, i.e. the powers vested in... legal criteria. Also, the purpose of law and regulation, the placing of legal criteria on the market within a harmonised area and the recognition of certificates and conformity codes issued in the countries of the European Economic Area. By this law, the Republic of Croatia also accepts a positive practice that already exists in EU member states, but to individual countries, non-member countries that have previously assumed this system of transfer of public powers to private and public persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80429	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labour and Labour Party, colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80430	The Honorable Vice-President, the Honorable Deputy Minister, as well as many laws so far, and this one goes according to an emergency procedure though I don't understand why and as much as I've been reading this material, I haven't been able to determine the real reason why another and a series of laws go according to emergency procedures, which is why it doesn't go into two readings, although many will say this is technical law, technical harmonisation, and then there's no need. But experience tells us that when it comes to such things, that there is always a possibility, I do not claim that, but there is always the possibility that the writing of the law is tailored to a particular legal entity, a particular person, that it is a law that, as some of us have already received the laws of names, that this could be some lex someone or lex something. Whether it is or not, I will not argue, but such a practice that has been introduced so far and those experiences that we have give us the right to doubt it. What I saw in the law itself is, for example, Article 5. Article 5, which lists the bodies carrying out the measurement tasks and is now listed as a tax institution of the State for measurement, the Croatian Measurement Institute, the authorised bodies, legal persons performing the tasks of the national moderate laboratory. And then we have further articles devising each of these and Article 14 shows an authorised repairman, and there is no previous one. I'm a little weird, so since there aren't too many direct experiences with that problem, I've been consulting with people who are from that branch of the profession, and they've warned me about exactly what I've noticed, they've just explained to me what the problem is. Practically, it should separate the service from the certification. And unfortunately for them, and I believe them authorized repairers are reporting for a public tender for certification and examination of legal standards. Not only is it a direct damage, but it turns out to be a conflict of interest. Does this now confirm the suspicion that I said from the beginning whenever such a law goes into emergency procedure that there is always the possibility of writing the law actually because of someone targeted, I can't argue. However, everything that the people of that branch have listed here sounds to me precisely to me logically does not point to anything concrete, but it points to open holes in this law. The warning of the profession went to one more thing that unfortunately we can't change here, and these are sublegal acts. So let's say that the day before the change in function, the Assistant Minister signed a rule that I don't say has been messed up, I used the term they used, I messed up the whole situation, the whole branch, and that actually these sublegal acts when the law was written like this, sublegal acts define everything anyone needs and what's of interest to someone. I'm not sure that we're ever going to live here in this term, to come up with a requirement that some law does not go according to emergency procedures, but that it goes into two readings and that the ministry respects it, but I still urge you to try to reconsider this because if the waist is warning something, then I believe there's a reason to do so. I suppose it should be of interest to you, too, that some law that this House makes, that it doesn't have any good on it, that it doesn't have any shadow over it whether it was written for someone in someone's interest, for some interesting group. There's so much about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80431	Thank you. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80432	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You are rightfully asking your colleague Novak whether this law is as it is conceived can be written in order to be suitable for a specific legal person under Article 7 of this Law and for the reason that the Government allows this law to give certain public powers to legal persons. And I personally support it, I must say. However, it is confusing that the Government, in some other laws, does not want to miss out on the market to legal persons, but keeps them for itself by saying that these public powers will be better exercised when they are exercised by state authorities. For example, this case was in the Air Protection Act when certain reference laboratories in the Republic of Croatia that met very demanding conditions to be able to carry out such tasks, the Government took over from them by law and from now on it will be valid only to the state body. In this case, as you ask yourself, the Government leaves such powers to legal persons, which is in a certain way contrary to what it states in this same assembly a few days earlier. Therefore, I do not know whether that is exactly what you are thinking, but it points out that these could be the right fact that in one law we do not leave such powers to legal persons because we say that they can be performed exclusively and quality by state bodies, and in this law and without a problem, they are placed on the market, which I welcome, but I am talking about the inconsistencies of the Government when certain public powers are left to the market or to natural or legal persons in the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise... it is not possible for these tasks to be performed by a natural person but only by a legal person who opposed the Croatian Chamber of crafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80433	The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80434	Thank you very much. Well, you know the position of Croatian Labourists about this, fellow Bačić, about privatising everything that is public interest or state function, the function of the state. So we always suspect that when something like that is possible, I won't say that it always happens, but that corruption of some political elites that make such a decision is possible. They come out with such a proposal. Normally, it's impossible to claim it's like that, but it always raises some suspicion. However, the fact is that authorised legal entities have significant costs to meet certain standards. After all, there's some ISO 17020, so they have to have people to do it. And now, all of a sudden, in that group, public tender can be seen by those who are repairers. And it's just like the layman when I look at it, it can really be a conflict of interest. So you can be both an authorized repairman and an credentialist. And now is it, then, that's the purpose of someone who's in control if she's done those previous actions herself. They're going to control themselves, so you know that nowhere anywhere, it can't give those real results what they're expected to do. I think that the waist rightly warned that these two things should be separated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80435	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80436	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy President Dear Vice President, Deputy President. [[Intruder Zgrebec: In the name of the club you speak, go ahead.]] Here I agree that this is a technical law and that things are more harmonised here, the primary things related to this law. But I agree that it should not have been carried out by an emergency procedure because the public debate has shown that there should be things to discuss and not this urgent adoption. The first thing that would be the point is that in this law, in Article 7, paragraphs 1 and 2, you have expelled natural persons, so that here we degrade all craftsmen, all of those authorized services that they have had from the State Monitoring Authority and have been able to carry out competently these service jobs that they cannot now do. And the justification you gave is that they don't have public authority. We know that some citizens' associations also have public authority. So there when individuals join together then they have public authority and here's the only reason why these repairers couldn't do it if they didn't have public authority. Either they are driven to start a business, whether they will then have public authority or I think it is their discrimination and especially the time when we fight for every job and when we put all those craftsmen in a position to lose their jobs tomorrow, or I cannot carry out that activity they've been doing in the past. Also, this conversation with the people of the profession who are involved in this business and their remarks referred to this Article 53 in paragraph 1 where you have inserted to monitor their business books. I don't think there's any need for business books to be monitored by this measuring inspection because these books are clearly controlled by both tax and economic inspections. And I don't see any reason why you're now giving additional authority here to this measuring inspection to control their business books because that's what other competent services and inspections are doing. So I support the position and opinion of the profession about it. Also in Articles 27 and 28 relating to these extraordinary verifications, we also support the profession where they consider that these are the obligations of authorised repairers to place them in an uninvited position and, in particular, with regard to the collection of services from the holder of the criterion. The authorised repairer must certainly report to the state office but that he has implemented the repair of the criterion from which this state stamp and label were to be removed and we believe that only the owner would have to be responsible for this application of the criteria both on a regular basis and on an extraordinary verification. As in Articles 66 and 67, I think that these fines are really too high, there should clearly be fines and fines in that sense, but those mentioned are too high. Here we are, in that sense, making comments on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80437	Thank you. On behalf of HNS representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80438	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Deputy Minister. I would like to start by saying that the Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats Club will support this bill. I would remind myself that the existing Law on Measurement is 11 years old and that it has been amended, or completed 7 years ago, that several very important things have happened in particular in the frameworks in which the Republic of Croatia is operating today, and that is the European Union where this issue is concerned, with special concern for measurement. Because, as already said, the issue of regulating this area directly concerns the protection of consumer rights and we know that this is one of the values that the European Union and its legal system particularly respect and protects. On the other hand, if the existing measure law is compared with the level of the year 2007 and if this text we have ahead of us compares, we will see that this is a series of changes that bring much more transparent solutions and also detailed, e.g. This issue which is now problematic, which is the issue of the transfer of powers, the transfer of public powers, the certification of legal criteria. The law so far has regulated one article, Article 7 and now the whole of the procedure is regulated through as many as 7 articles in the new law. So in this sense it's much clearer, it's much more public, it's narrowed down the space for ex post interpretations, for discretionary rights, and it's one of the steps forward that should be welcomed. On the other hand, it should be said that the draft measure law was to be harmonised, i.e. notification in relation to the amended Directive 98/34/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council which was adopted on 22 June 1998, so after the adoption of the latest amendments and additions to the existing law, which is therefore a directive which speaks about the establishment of the notification procedure in the field of technical regulations and rules on information society services. The curiosity is that, in fact, this law that we have on the agenda today is practically the first law in the Republic of Croatia which, after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, has been addressed in the process of notifying in accordance with the cited directive and which was concluded on 11 February, therefore, the notification procedure. The arguments put forward by the applicant for the need to pass this law, and even more direct insight into the differences that exist in the existing solutions, suggest that it would certainly be good to support the idea that the new rules should be adopted as soon as possible and effective. And in that sense, I repeat, the HNS Club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80439	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80440	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I apologize here for the technical problems I failed to print this preparation so I brought my... don't you mind? All right, then. The introduction should therefore be said that the SDP club will support the adoption of this legislative proposal. The death penalty punished those who would forget or disregard their duty to measure the talon unit's length for every full month. Such a execution threatened builders at the royal site responsible for the construction of Pharaoh’s temples and pyramids in ancient Egypt, 2,000 years before Christ. The first royal elbow was defined as the length of the elbow forearm to the tip of the ruling Pharaoh's medium, increased by the width of his hand. The original measure was transferred into black granite and cut into it. Construction workers received copies in granite or wood, and the builders were responsible for preserving them. Since then, regardless of the location and time, people have paid great attention to the accuracy of the measurements. In the newer age, in 1799, a... metric system was created in Paris by storing two platinum ethlons that represented meters and kilograms, the beginning of today's international system of units... known system. So from a very long time ago, measurement has an exceptional importance in human life. Today, the vast majority of citizens are not even aware of how much we come daily in favour of different types of measurement, starting in medicine where different radiations are measured at the moment of the disease and up to the daily purchase in which we are trying or at least trying to be unsaved by those who deliver the goods to us. Only in the production and distribution of gas are there according to the estimates of large cash differences that are coming past real gas deliveries. The basic reason for the adoption of the Measurement Act is to ensure the performance of the tasks of certification of legal criteria and the preparation of certification criteria to be carried out by legal persons in the course of their activities. By prescribing assumptions, i.e. general and specific conditions for issuing a decision on the authorisation to carry out the tasks of certifying legal standards or the operations of the preparation of legal standards for certification as public powers, some existing legal solutions which did not allow legal persons to be authorised despite compliance with the prescribed conditions, and in this respect neither the certification of legal standards nor the preparation of certification criteria in the best possible way. The purpose of the adoption of the law in question is to establish a measure of unity in the Republic of Croatia and to establish trust in the results of measurements carried out to protect consumers, life and human and animal health, environmental protection, general security and the protection of natural resources, and to promote free trade and remove possible barriers to trade. For this purpose, with the provision of clear assumptions for the issuing of a solution for the authorisation of legal persons to carry out the tasks of certifying legal standards or the preparation of certification criteria as public powers, the tasks of the bodies carrying out the measuring tasks, the procedure of approval of the type of criteria and the certification of legal criteria shall be precisely defined. In order to achieve that purpose, in order to monitor the application of the law and thus to prevent the grey economy, inspection tasks, types of inspectors, conditions that inspectors must comply with those criminal provisions are precisely prescribed. The purpose of the law is also to regulate the placing of legal criteria on the market within a harmonised area, as well as the recognition of certificates and conformity codes issued abroad. The current Monitoring Act did not cover any practical problems encountered daily by a measuring inspection, as well as violations that often occur and prevent the regular application of legal standards without being normative as infringements. Given that the meaning of the new law proposal is easier, simpler, transfer of public authority to certifying legal criteria, additional preconditions should be provided for the development of a measuring inspection and to prescribe infringements and to increase penalties for breach of the conditions under which the public authority is obtained. Article 73 The Stabilisation and Association Agreement relating to technical regulations, normisation, measurement, empowerment and conformity assessment, the Republic of Croatia has undertaken to take the necessary measures to gradually comply with the technical regulations of the European Union and European standardisation, measurement and authorisation and conformity assessment procedures and to establish, where appropriate, European compliance assessment protocols, improve the development of infrastructure for quality, standardisation, measurement, authorisation and conformity assessment, and promote the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the work of specialised European integration. In line with this, in 2003, the Measurement Act was adopted, which regulated a single measuring system covering basic technical and legal measurement. The Meriting Act is based on Council Directive 88/111 of 20 December 1979. After an assessment of the situation and the analysis of the environment with all its influential factors as well as the increasing number of certification requirements, it is necessary to ensure continuity and quality of measurement operations in the best possible way by this proposal for a measure law that proposes an increasingly comprehensive solution in the field of regulatory measurement, in particular from the point of view of the competence of the National Bureau of Measurement and Authorised Legal Persons in the conduct of measuring operations within the national measuring system. The current legal arrangement of the relationship between entities within the area of legal measurement is much lagging behind practice in the Member States of the European Union and even in practice in non-member countries in the environment. This law should regulate the following basic issues: the area of regulation and concepts within the meaning of the law, the bodies carrying out measurement tasks, basic measurement, legal measurement, measuring requirements for bottle prepacks as measuring tanks, cash and cost in legal measurement, measurement inspection, criminal, transitional and final provisions, and compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. In this way, it will be possible to regulate the economic and legal position of the authorised bodies in the legal measure, and to prescribe clear general and specific conditions for authorising bodies to carry out the preparation of the certification criteria, and to verify the criteria on which the authorisation of the institution will be only a confirmation of the fulfilment of those conditions, a precise definition of the tasks of the State Bureau of Measurement in issuing the authorisation to carry out operations in the process of preparing the certification criteria, and of the certification of the criteria. Obligation of insurance... Authorised meterers and authorised repairers, insurance of pre-conditions for staff strengthening the measurement inspection by prescribing several types of measuring inspectors in order to allow the transfer of a part of the measurement work to authorised bodies of the measure officer of the State Bureau of Measurement to a measuring inspection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Increased consumer protection measured through stricter criminal sanctions as a means of general and special prevention of abuse of legal measures. The current applicable law, which was passed in 2003, which regulated the area of basic technical and legal measurement, and in 2007 the amendment of the law was complemented, and in recent years the opportunities in measurement have changed significantly, so that it was necessary to move forward with the adoption of this new law. The National Bureau of Measurement is an institution which, with authorised legal persons and authorised services, performs the tasks of legal measurement in the Republic of Croatia. National measuring institutes are dealing with scientific measurement, and in Croatia there is an increasingly active Croatian measuring institute. Industrial measurement ensures the proper functioning of the criteria used in industry and various production processes and studies in which they play a very important role and... labs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the past few years, there has been a rise in legal criteria in the Croatian market which has made it difficult for the State Monitoring Institute to work and result in a reduction in its operational, staff and financial capacity. The application of the Measurement Act makes it difficult to transfer public authority and certifying to authorised bodies, thus making it difficult to carry out the necessary measuring tasks. In addition, the current Law on Measurement does not cover all practical problems that are faced on a daily basis by the Measurement Inspectorate as well as infringements that often occur and prevent the regular application of legal criteria, which should also be better regulated by the new Law on Measurement. In short. This law should regulate the following basic issues – the area of regulation and concepts within the meaning of the law, the bodies carrying out tasks, fundamental measurement, legal measurement, measurement requirements, monetary fees and costs, measuring inspection, criminal and transitional and final provisions, and compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Finally, the SDP club supports the adoption of this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80441	Thank you. Replica Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80442	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I also listened carefully to you in the part in which you referred to the provisions of this law defining the public powers of the authorised bodies when it comes to granting, or certification of, appropriate criteria. I don't see what would have been the reason why he ran the government's public authority tasks when it comes to certifying the standards doesn't allow the physical persons more than if the authorised person was an employee or co-owner or the owner of the craft had the conditions and could so far carry out the certification of certain criteria which is why he can't do it further or can't do it if he reregisters and establishes a legal person. Therefore, it also seems to me to be discriminatory for employees and craft owners in the Republic of Croatia and that it should be possible to establish the conditions that must be met by the person exercising and public authority, regardless of whether he owns, co-owner or employee in a natural person or legal person. In my view, this is only acceptable, and this was manifested by the Croatian Chamber of crafts and I hold that with full law it does not agree with such a solution. I also call on the Government to really determine until the vote that these tasks are carried out by natural persons if an employee in that natural person has the authority of the State Bureau of Measurement. If it has met the conditions laid down by the State Bureau of Measurement, it should not matter whether these tasks are carried out in a natural person or in a legal person and in that sense, it seems to me that the Government should respond in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80443	The answer to the replica Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80444	Well, here's Dear colleague Bacic, I'll answer you now more on the technical side. I'm not a lawyer, and there's a representative of the ministry here, so if he can answer in that part, he'll be fine. The most important thing about measurement and measurement is the principle of traceability. That's got to be ensured. It means that when the principle of traceability is guaranteed, it is also likely in the legislative proposal to be respected and that it would be certain to the end that the principle of traceability will be respected probably for this reason that legal persons are defined as those who can obtain accreditation. But the truth is, maybe you're right about why you don't make a natural person. However, I say on the side of the technical profession because today, more and more of the measurement is being made, and when you talk about the State Bureau of Measurement, of course, these requirements are already difficult to pass and simply across the range of their different human and other technical conditions that the state institution has. You today if any of the citizens go to the tanning room, so if there's a chip there, then put it on and who's to guarantee it's that. Or if the car washes on the car washes who guarantees that these devices are moderate and that they have meanings, you actually get the right thing to say. So I'm just talking as an example as it gets more complicated, more and more to protect the citizens. And I think that in the part where both individuals get involved in this, there is a need to pay particular attention to the principle of consumer protection because of the high interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80445	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80446	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, is it important for us to have the form and the way someone organized it and how he registered, or is it important for us to have expertise? What's the difference between a craftsman who has two, three employees and a legal person who has two, three employees? Not at all. This work permit was given to the Office for the Economy of a City and this one was registered at the High Court of Commerce. And they meet the conditions of doing some kind of work, except these conditions towards craftsmen are far more stringent than they are for legal persons. Does it matter to us to make sure that we give public authority to those who know how to do it and who can do it in quality or how it is organised for us? Tell me, what is the status of a craftsman who has to keep his business books according to the Accounting Act? Is he a legal person or a physical person? In a completely identical way, he runs financial business as well as someone who has a firm and has five employees. And maybe his people are more professional than this guy who's got some kind of company. And he just because he's a craftsman can't do that job. Now there's a basic question here, does that mean, that you should send the craftsmen a clear message if you want to get public authority, if you want to get some other things, go ahead and start a company and do it through it, and you're doing the craftsman's work. That, unfortunately, led us to have a bunch of firms without any employees. It's precisely because certain legal provisions have been done by people. And now will we at this point, and later you will see in this second law that follows, which one crazy provision means how it can slow down processes in the Republic of Croatia. And we all swear that it's in our best interest to remove the administrative barriers. Now why don't we give those who know they're doing their job and get public authority and answer to someone for those public powers?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80447	Replication response, Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80448	So esteemed fellow Shuker again in that direction of replica as I did to Bačić, so the measurement represents a seemingly peaceful surface that covers the depths of knowledge. Knowledge known to only a few but used by most, convinced that they share a common knowledge of what expressions are like meters, kilograms, Wat and seconds. Look, I'm talking on the technical side of course. And probably in our tradition one of the reasons why, I think colleague Novak asked why it was brought in by an emergency procedure? Be careful, the technical world is changing fast. We're the truth God in a lot of things late. Maybe because there is no special measurement study, there are colleges different from different technical colleges that deal with theory and measurement techniques and maybe just that, I don't see that it has intentions, but it's just because it's traditionally not recognized that there is a craftsman who would deal with these affairs exclusively, is there? Like there's a carpenter or I don't know a hairdresser or someone who deals exclusively with such a job. And maybe in that part lies the whole story, I don't see it differently. But I'm saying, I'm removing what exists on the legal side, and the most important goal is actually when we talk about measuring is consumer protection and protecting the health and life of people and lives. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80449	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80450	Thank you very much. You've started a colleague so vividly, I must admit, with the mention of the death penalty, the death sentence, but fortunately, we've made enough progress so no one can think of it anymore. Although you don't call so well-intentioned, there's a lot going on with you in the party, it would be very awkward if you went that way. ... Thank you very much for throwing me away. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What I reported for was an emergency procedure. Here's what you mentioned. I'm not from your presentation, I still didn't realize why the emergency procedure. If anything, this law is your own mention of how long it hasn't been changed and now we're going with an emergency procedure. This does not mean, he mentioned earlier, that the law is better written because what an article has so far defined now deals with 7 articles. Well, that doesn't mean it's better written. It can even mean that it's consciously made chaos, that it's camouflaged something. This does not necessarily mean that the law has a more quality solution to a question. I think that now you mention it also in response to the replica the previous, that technology, technique all progresses at a speed but that doesn't mean that we're going to change the law every little bit when something is introduced. The law defines a framework and that's why it should be something I don't know can't be anything permanent but at least longer. And that's why I think that given the time since the previous law, there was no need for such a haste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80451	Tomislav Sagar, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80452	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Novak, here I will try very briefly, so although this law has been passed by urgent procedure, it has been spoken of for a long time. In 2010, I think he was already in preparation. Now it's hard to say why he wasn't brought before, because of the slow administration, why? Here, the ministry has prepared it now, going into emergency procedures I say because of some standards that we have signed and which should be urgently introduced into the legislative framework for the protection of consumers, human health and life. And that's it. And as for the measurement, you say in the introduction vividly, yes, I mean, theory and measurement techniques and general measurement, we're not even aware of how much of the stuff around us we come up with every day in contact that should be measured, which is important is that they're well measured. And in that sense, I welcome the adoption of the law and I welcome it to the urgent procedure because I think it should have come to these benches before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80453	Final presentation of Deputy Minister of Economy Mr. Allen Levaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80454	Thank you very much, Vice President. Just two, two additions to today's debate. Mr Sanader asked about the business books all defined by the Inspectives Act in the Economy which was adopted at the beginning of this year and precisely defined the tasks of the inspector on the ground and, among others, is mentioned in itself, that it can also be seen in business books, i.e. that it can enter the business books. That would be why we haven't deleted, if the Inspectives Act in the economy strictly defines the business that the inspector must do. And to answer this question about public authority. It is a completely different law, and as you know it was adopted in 2011, it is the Law on the System of State Administration, Article 2(2), in which the public authorities themselves are defined and beautifully written by legal persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80455	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80456	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy, so the laws are passed to make something work. If something is not good in the functioning process itself, then the one who notices is obliged to propose to the Croatian Parliament an amendment to the law. So, if we missed as a Parliament and passed such a Law on Public Powers where we say that craftsmen can't do it in some other things, they would also eliminate craftsmen, but if the organisational form gave someone can or can't work, and it's not the condition that anyone has trained and trained people then we're totally on the wrong path. If we say that craftsmanship, small and medium entrepreneurship is something that will be the backbone of the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia, then it is one of the administrative barriers that we must remove. It's not an administrative barrier. I'm going to remove 5 or 6 laws. It's just like this. And then someone else in an irregular space fix those obstacles, a normal thing that you can't run. Because I repeat, it will happen to you that a smart craftsman who has a professional man can get public authority will start a company and put one or no man in that company who will at some point do the job that he needs and at the same time can do a service or something else in his craft. So why do we drive people into some kind of incriminating action when we don't need it? Because I repeat, what's the difference between crafts and businesses? Well, the craftsmanship is as traditional as entrepreneurship, and now the difference is only where I got my business license. The craftsman got into town, and the one who has the company got it at the High Court of Commerce. There's no difference, let's set out the conditions that a public authority must have, and that's the key to everything. And what the document must look like and what responsibility it is for what he signed and yes. But this way to eliminate someone is out of our minds, but I'm saying we're full of mouths to remove administrative obstacles. This is one of the administrative obstacles that Croatia must remove, and this is that different view of craftsmen and legal persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80457	Thank you very much. Replication response, Allen Leveric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80458	Thank you very much. Mr. Parliamentary Representative, I fully agree with you that if the law doesn't work to change things, we fully agree, but you also understand, the Ministry of Economy must act under existing laws and we, I think it's perfectly clear to you that we are working under existing laws and existing laws. And as for that, we are proposing laws that a respected home adopts. And as for this part only about removing the barriers, you can see, and as was the debate today, this law opens up the market. So this law, with its new powers, also allows for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, is not to hold it back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80459	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill. ... Here's your colleague Sanader. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80460	I apologize if you haven't seen, but I reacted. In fact, Mr. Deputy Minister said this about business books, clearly that the inspector has powers, they can watch measuring logs but there's no difference in how a measured inspector controls books, complete books about entrepreneurs, because I don't know by which law it's defined, but it's illogical and abnormal that the measuring inspector controls business books. That is why I have made this observation to remove it in Article 53(1). And it is clear that the inspector has the right to oversee the measuring logs and what is related to his profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80461	I'm closing the debate. We'll probably vote on the bill tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80462	Final proposal of the Law on Measurement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 651. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were proposed by the Legislative Committee. I'd like the Deputy Minister, the Honorable Allen Leveric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80463	All amendments to the Legislative Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80464	Thank you very much. The amendments have all been accepted. They became an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you. Later. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 80 votes in favour and 16 abstentions have been passed by the Measurement Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80465	We move on to: - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 652. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received their reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Economy Minister Mr. Allen Leveric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80466	In this way, the respected vice presidents of this bill settles two questions. The issue of competence of the State Commission for the control of the procurement procedure in such a way as to provide for the Commission's decision to make claims for compensation for the costs of the procedure during which the matter of the subject-matter of the appeal procedure is defined invaluable. And the second part is a matter of limitations in misdemeanor proceedings that is in line with the Criminal Law. In the light of the merits of the appeal procedure carried out by the Commission, the proposal states that this value is not estimable. In the previous discussion of the Measurement Act, we have just found that there are barriers that prevent investment. One of these barriers that slows down is exactly the barrier that, under the existing law, defined that the estimated value and in the appeal process were costs for some municipalities, cities and counties over 100,000 kuna. This law absolutely reduces it and reduces it to a minimum of 625 kuna, maximum of 625 kuna plus VAT. This value has a direct impact on the determination of the amount of costs in the appeal procedures relating to the award for the work of lawyers. It's... from the influence of the procedure... of the appeal, only on the documentation of the competition, when the same complainant usually doesn't show up later, as well as the competitor in the public procurement process, so it turns out that the appeal was given with the intention to collect that prize. In the jargon over the past few years, professional complainants have been mentioned in the right to these amendments and the additions of the law itself, professional complainants go back in history. It is also pointed out that the aim of the law is not to take something away or prescribe someone else's harm, and in particular, a lawyer with regard to rewards for their work, because the issue of these awards is regulated by the bar itself by the tariff on rewards and fees for the work of a lawyer, National Journal 142/12. The proposed solution in parallel with the legal understanding of the administrative court of 2006/2010. the years which at that time took the view that the value of the case is not estimable. The main thing is that the procedure assesses the formal regularity and legality of the conduct of the public tendering procedure, the overall estimated value of the purchase is not and cannot possibly be equal to the value of any potential damage suffered or lost benefit of a particular entity, so it cannot be either the basis or the basis for determining the level of the lawyer's prize in that procedure. In particular, in some respects, the value of the contract, a large part of that amount of waste to the value of the material, the work of the manufacturer’s machinery and other elements of the need for the execution of the contract, and the potential profit of the contractor or contractor may only be determined as a single-digit percentage of that amount. Each price offered in its structure shall have the built-in costs and work and materials of the energy and other elements on which that price is determined, and the estimated value of the purchase shall not be the same or the contracted one and cannot be equal to the amount of the potentially lost profit of a company in that case or business. As a consequence of such a legal solution, it should be possible to prevent abuse of the use of the legal protection institute solely for the purpose of charging the costs of the procedure. In the complaint proceedings, the complainants are neither yet involved in the public competition process, and it is advisable whether at all... the conditions to participate in a concrete procurement procedure. So it comes to the conclusion that there is no justification that the value of the... appeal procedure in relation to the tendering documentation is equal to the estimated value of the purchase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80467	Thank you. Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80468	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, not so long ago in this assembly has just been warned of these problems that you have now presented in the Public Procurement Act and it would be good if you had already accepted it, adopted it, now would be much less of a problem. It is likely that there will be a reduction in the number of professional complainants, such as a lot of... expression, but I am not sure, or even do not believe that there will be a significant improvement and an increase in investment, i.e. there will be a significant reduction in the braking of investments by those who complain and the state commission. Namely, why? I would ask you to tell us, in the light of this law, how long it takes on average to resolve a single complaint, which are the values that stand again and do not solve the investments that are waiting and have you considered the variations that may be the public procurement law we use, here we are at the local level for competitions through EU projects, that it may be much better and simpler, that it is much easier to implement and that there are not as many gaps as there are in our law. Maybe it would be good to apply that law, just put it on and start working on it. I've had experience in my city with a few dozen competitions of this type, we've never had any problems, but with competitions under the Public Procurement and Resolution Act through the State Commission in Croatia we have a constant problem. So let's say in one... over there next to St. Ivana... school hasn't been building for a year because we've been complaining all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80469	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80470	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, this is a criticism, first of all, of us MPs, and then of the Government. We have the Fiscal Responsibility Act and this proposal is a law that does not respect the provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, i.e. in its explanation, it does not give a fiscal effect. When you look at the Fiscal Responsibility Act, and why am I saying that? If the Proposer had followed the Fiscal Responsibility Act, then we would certainly have had indicators of how many such complaints, how many investments in which the total amount was thus stopped, which should actually be the real reasons for changing the law. But when you type it like this and, of course, you don't normally need the resources, then you ask yourself what things are the meaning of this law and whether they really want to prevent professional complainers, then it's dealt with in another way. Why would you even give someone the chance to complain about the tender documentation? Let him take part in the competition, and let him complain. Among other things, let her object to the tender documentation, not to give some simply some... to earn money and to hold down certain investments for one single reason why it fits them. Especially at times when there is a crisis and unfortunately in Croatia a lot of companies are jobless and many want to get a job, go below the price and if they do not get that job and what is the biggest problem of public procurement, not only in the last two years, but the Public Procurement Act since it applies, and these are clear criteria which are the most favourable offer. Is the lowest price always the best offer? However, in such conditions as in Croatia, only a fool can sign, accept an offer that does not have the best price. A bunch of unfinished schools, like mine in Velika Gorica in... and a bunch of other schools is just because... the most favourable offer, and the one who got the offer, no one checked out whether he could finish that job or not. That's far more important than this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80471	And Kresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80472	Thank you very much. Well, I had to replicate if it was just said that professional mourners would go into history. No, they won't go into history, they'll be in the future, especially before some elections. But it is also known that we often face dumping on the market and that we have a lot of professional complainants. One part will shrink, especially when we talk about lawyers and what they did in the past year, but professional complainants will still have to change the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80473	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the DC and Independent Representatives Natalija Martincevic. She's not present, so the club is losing the right to debate on this point. On behalf of SDP representative Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80474	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to point out that the SDP club supports this proposal to amend the law. This proposal amends the law in the first place more detailed the problem which has not been sufficiently arranged so far and where certain occurrences can be seen in the appeal procedure before which they could not give a positive indication. They are also here to be brought into line now with regard to the infringement provisions of this law, which are amended in the light of the Criminal Law. The most important change is the introduction that we said when deciding on the cost of the appeal procedure, it determines that the value of the case is not appraisal. So far, there has been a certain legal gap in this area, which, which is our position in the SDP club, has not been settled properly. In the introduction of this proposal, a brief overview of the solutions to date in practice was given, so for the sake of the public, he would reiterate that the Public Procurement Act, which was in force until 1 January 2012, prescribed that the value of the case would be calculated according to the estimated value of the purchase. And then according to that value of the case, they accounted for, or accounted for, the costs primarily... the costs of the complaint. Now the applicable Public Procurement Act, which was published in the NN, which entered into force on 1 January 2012, rules out, so he specifically that issue on the value of the case in these proceedings and does not regulate the way in which the compensation is determined in terms of the invaluability of the same. Hence, there was a certain legal void. This is more and more the applicable Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures does not currently prescribe whether the appeal procedure is invaluable or invaluable when we talk about the appeal procedure. In view of this fact, the State Commission decided and decided, in accordance with the Court of Justice’s conclusion in October 2011, that the value of the cases in these proceedings is equal to the estimated value of the purchase. Such a practice led to the fact that, on the basis of the costs of the appeal procedure, they charged enormous amounts as primarily legal fees. In view of the fact that the value of the case under this solution is the overall value of the subject-matter of the procurement, we consider that such a solution in practice is unfair and inappropriate. So let's explain, if the subject of the procurement of the aircraft is then, when determining the costs of the complaint declared in the procedure of such a settlement, the entire value of the aircraft is taken. Such a situation is in no way comparable to the procedure, for example, compensation for damages in a litigation procedure where, for example, One side sues the other. If we take the example of this aircraft for the purpose of destroying the aircraft and there the value of the dispute is indeed the value of the aircraft. In the event of public procurement, the tenderer may be to the extent that the person who did not participate in the procurement process is to be harmed only for the person who has escaped the profits, and that person who did not participate in the procurement process, and would not want to and could not because of errors in the procedure. Therefore, there it is potentially to the detriment of this outward profit by one smaller percentage of the value of that aircraft, which would be e.g. its margin and so far the solution in practice is certainly not sustainable. This is a little simplification of a simple case that I have set up to illustrate to the public in a simple way the reasons for the adoption of these amendments to the law. and I say it should be noted that it can be determined in this example it could also be determined which would be the specific value, or should I say the subject matter of the dispute. In practice, however, we also have much more complex cases of public procurement where the subject of public procurement is unknown to dozens, hundreds and perhaps thousands of items and such "value of the object of the dispute" cannot be determined in a satisfactory and good way and so we find that this determination of the value of the subject of public procurement as invaluable in such cases is the best possible solution. For reasons of clarification, it should be said that when we talk about invaluable items, it does not mean that the complainant will not be recognised any compensation but means that according to the applicable tariff he will always be recognised the same cost. Since the practice so far shows that mainly complaints made for errors in competition documentation are found such a solution is justified and the establishment of these errors requires mostly equal level of work or perhaps with minor deviations. In any case, the granting of a fee of 100 thousand kuna for submission in such cases is completely inadequate, and such a solution in practice has caused me to say that in the litigation procedure, it is called an acquittal litigation and has therefore caused a statement of objection or appeal only with the aim of lobbying adjudicated fees. Such treatment should certainly not be supported, we believe that the proposed solutions represent adequate prevention. With regard to the harmonisation of the provisions of the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement with the provisions of the Criminal Law, we welcome the harmonisation of the provisions on limitation in order to avoid problems in application. In this regard, these are addressed, the solutions from these amendments to the law refer to the Infringement Act as a lex specialis in matter that determines the statutes of limitations and we, of course, welcome it in the SDP club. For all reasons, the SDP club will support the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80475	Thank you. Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80476	Thank you very much. My colleague Pandek, I don't know if in his practice, business had opportunities and accidents to participate in public competitions and to resolve complaints in public competitions, if you did, then you'd be easier to understand me, if you didn't, I'd be glad to try to get into a situation to see what it looks like. So, you're talking about legal voids, it's not so much a problem with legal voids, we're dealing with legal dust in a bunch of laws, regulations, regulations, it's not even God knows what we have anymore. And then it's precisely the kind of people who give themselves a little bit more effort that they're using exactly the kind of contaminants that we're bringing ourselves, and we're disabling investment ourselves. Well, isn't this funny, too, to have a law on public procurement and a law on the state commission? Well, it could've been one law that would've worked it out. So, complaints, you've said that complaints are filed for banal certain wording. No problem when complaints are filed for this, the problem is when the state commission solves the complaint positively or accepts the complaint for some banal thing, one word, one comma, anything, has nothing to do with anything. There's the problem. To see just what arguments we've received on these complaints that are solving, the same subject, the same thing practically different interpretations and every time the contest is cancelled. How much investment does it cost? What should be in the law when we already have a law to resolve, which would accelerate the principle of this procedure, would be to limit time to resolve the appeal. That's the most important thing. In how many days the State Commission has to resolve the appeal, it would trigger more investment than this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80477	Drazen Pandek, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80478	Thank you. Here's an esteemed colleague, in fact, you've given me some conflicting opinion, and in principle you've put yourself on something that's not essentially the subject of this, specifically this debate, but I can agree with you. We should clearly seek to simplify procedures, to limit the forest rules. We should especially strive, therefore, for the regulations to have a certain continuity to avoid too often, too often changing the rules, clearly sometimes it is necessary, but I think we should definitely think ahead and agree with you on that. Public procurement procedures, as already said in the debate, I also think that we should go towards a certain rationality, he was, and a colleague here Shucker was saying that we need to consider this whole public procurement system whether the most favourable offer is the one that is cheapest or we need to look at other elements. I agree that there is room for improvement, and I would also like to think that the area of public procurement is extremely suitable for corruption, and unfortunately, we are often witnessing that there is everything. The space for improvement exists in terms of rationalization and simplification, and here here I can agree with you. And I'm saying, this bill brings the necessary changes that will bring a certain improvement in what I've been saying, so in principle, you haven't argued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80479	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourist-Stranka Rada, colleague Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80480	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I agree with all those who say that the amendments to this law are just one drop in the sea. Because when we talk about public procurement, then we need to know that somewhere around 40 billion kunas a year are spinning. Of these funds, about 35% of the work, 40% of the goods, 25% of the service. And when we share them, then we can say that public contractors make 73% and sectoral contractors are 27%. What we want to say in particular is that, in the latest recommendations of the Council on the National Reform Programme for 2014 in one of the 8 points, I think the 6th point among other things is to strengthen the prevention of corruption in public administration and state-owned enterprises, strengthen transparency and efficiency of public procurement at the central and local level and the ability to monitor and detect irregularities. Why am I saying that? Well, because through public procurement we've witnessed, there's no long history and past these authorities where we've had FIMI media, painting tunnels, etc. I don't want to pick it up. Even this current government did not remain immune, so we had the purchase of the car of the MUP, we have the purchase of a county car in Sisak-Moslavina County where certain competitions are done, furniture as it suits someone and how it suits individuals. We also have the latest situation in one of the biggest state-owned companies, which are Croatia's forests, about 136 apartments that were given and clearly needed by the institutions of this country, DORH and USKOK to give their opinion. But what I particularly wanted to say, and that is the question that this segment and the solution to the public procurement issue will not be resolved if we do not process this part of the area better and we do not decide to avoid these potential abuses that are happening. Why did I say all that? Because I have to warn you of one important thing here, and that's the question of the clamper of this government. Last year, we passed this Law on the State Commission for the Public Procurement Procedure last February. He was in an emergency procedure. The reasons that were then discussed about the urgency of the procedure were that the State Commission had five members and that it had to be increased to 9 members in order to be more efficient, better, better and to solve all those objections faster, and the arguments were that certain and investment were standing and that there were certain problems. Here are 16 months since then, the law has been passed by emergency procedure, then we have five members until the amendment of that law, and today we have a deputy, not even a president, two members have expired. We don't have six members, and the State Commission should have nine members under the law. And now we come to why in 16 months we went to change the law by emergency procedure and the reasons were that, and we don't have a 9-member State Commission today. Now I'm asking myself who painted us and convinced us of something else that, by the day today, 16 months have not been made. And now there's the second question that the committee is responsible for. The Commission is responsible for this House because the Croatian Parliament is to elect the members of this committee, but in order for the Assembly to choose the members of the commission, someone has to propose them. Under the current law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia suggests this. The same government has not found it appropriate for 16 months to propose to this Parliament and to complete the State Commission for Public Procurement Procedures. Isn't that really the clamper of this government? I think it's quite a big schlamper. The government should have done so at least within... days before the end of the term of office to propose a resolution, appointment or re-election of members of the State Commission. And now who's probably interested in this? Somewhere now we are talking about amending this law that we are going to solve this part of the problem when there is no, is not estimated value and related to professional complainants because they abuse a certain position. Yeah, maybe they do, but the only thing that's going to solve here is that part of the legal fee that can be huge. And clearly, I can agree with all those that she is unwarranted and that possibly in that part and should solve a particular issue. But I have to ask myself a question, then we had an emergency law, and in the 10th month, the same law was still changed by emergency procedure, and today we are changing that law by emergency procedure with some sort of banal solution, and the whole segment of public procurement that has been laid down and corruption, has been the subject of certain problems that the Council of Europe warns us of, and we simply do not want to solve. Behind that, we close our eyes and close our eyes. Clearly, I also agree with those who said today that we should see what number of complaints are resolved, who are professional complainants and how much is inside that problem. This is all in some way visual, there is no data even though we know that somewhere around 1800 complaints a year, last year it was something more than 2100 complaints, how many of them were transferred to this year and we no longer have a situation today that the State Commission is working with this part where the government has failed to meet its obligations and has not appointed this State Commission as it should, proposed, and the Parliament has not chosen the State Commission. And now are we going to handle something better in the process? No, and still everyone will be able to complain and the documentation will still be able to delay and continue the procedure will be transparent or non-transparent depending on whether there is crime, whether there are any other initiatives etc. And that's why I think that this segmental resolution of certain law issues with an explanation that it will solve and that it will be better to bring us into this situation if we just have a worse situation and that this is the only way we will not solve the issue of quality public procurement. Because public procurement, as I said at the outset, is a major source of and corruption and crime, and clearly if this society does not seriously want to deal with it, and if it does not address the issue of the law in a good way that public procurement and public works that go through public procurement are more transparent and that investments can in some way also be accelerated through that part of the process. With this issue and the segmental resolution of the law, which can be a clear and justifiable objection, but the issue will not be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80481	Replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80482	Thank you very much. Comrade Tušak, I think it is crucial to change this law that the motioner has informed us how many complaints there are and how many investments in local self-government units at the level have been stopped. That's the key thing, because on the proposal of the Proposer, that's actually why the law is changing. It's another thing. The other information we need is how many who, where professional complainants have complained about the tender documentation, have paid or have to pay out of their budget, which is the fiscal liability bill that simply makes some law make those who decide on the law and who have far less information on the offer of information why they propose this law. So that's the key to everything. And as for the members of the Commission, I remember this speaker speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, and I said at the time, Mr Leveric proposed the law, that we support the number of members of the Public Procurement Commission for a simple reason to be more expedient and faster. However, an elementary question is being asked in Croatia, pay someone to write you tender documentation. Then someone comes to you and complains about that tender documentation, then at the end of the day when it all goes away then you're still complaining about the competition, because the offer was accepted one way or the other and then it stretches your entire investment. If you've taken out a loan, then you're paying intercal interest, you're late for investment, and a million other things. However, such harsh provisions of the law will, unfortunately, not be dealt with. But perhaps the debate in this House would be quite different if, or in the opening part, if it were not already written here, the Deputy Minister said these two key information which is the amount at this time in the appeal procedure and how much it is and how much it should be charged from professional complainants who had already complained at the beginning of the competition only about the tender documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80483	Zlatko Tušak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80484	Thank you. Well, fellow Shuker, clearly I fully agree with you because without certain information, we are talking today. We can say that it's good or that it's not good, if someone's making an enormous benefit about professional mourners. They're probably like that, but that's not the problem with solving the whole law. The law needs to be resolved differently and see what problems are within the law to narrow down that part of the regret area needless and delay certain things through the competition itself, because what are we doing with this? We're not working it out. Anyone can continue to complain, and anyone can continue to delay and continue here does not interfere with that part of the procedure, which is the question of the other law which we should very seriously discuss for public procurement to be transparent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80485	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80486	Thank you very much. Comrade Tušak, you said in your discussion that this is a partial solution. So is the only problem that has been seen in the area of public procurement an appeal procedure and that this must be amended by an emergency procedure, because it is the only observed difficulty in the whole area. I find it the least difficult in the whole area of public procurement, but I am proof that the deputy minister does not want to discuss this issue at all because he does not want to respond to replicas. They want to outvote themselves, not discuss problems and the law, but shut up and eventually raise your hand. And as important as it is for the state, it is most credible that yesterday the HNS did not report to the law proposed by the SDP, and today, when it proposes the HNS law, only representatives of the HNS appear. This isn't government law, this is party law, and it's recognized by the debate, and they don't want to discuss anything. They outvote each other. But speaking of which, you said three more times that this law was changed by emergency procedure. Every time for banal reasons, he once changed to change the conditions for a member of the commission, because the intended member did not meet the previous legal conditions because he did not have a certain qualification, and then they did not fill in. That's why 16 months doesn't work, because it's more important to them who's gonna be a member and solve the former president than to make it work at all. The bigger problem is the competition, the competition itself from the appeal procedure. How can the contest be annulled? That means someone hasn't prepared well. How can a person not prepare a competition well when there is a law? Because he's consciously preparing a bad competition. If the tender was cancelled someone would have had to... and responsibility, and this has not yet happened in practice in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80487	A colleague, if you are already assessing who is discussing or not the SDP club, discussed both in one point and in another today. Answer to the replica Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80488	Thank you. I fully agree with you, colleague Marić, and I will agree with this last thing you said and answer in response to my reply. The question of responsibility, because if certain competitions and furniture are made to individuals or if, eventually, part of this documentation that suits some who should pass a particular competition is a very reason to cancel certain competitions, to complain and to delay the procedure and the intransparency of public procurement and public competitions. And that's the taste of the problem. No one is responsible for that part, and we do not want to talk about it. And it's about 40 billion kunas a year that, through public procurement and public procurement, are spinning in this country. And if we take only 10% to be subject to that part of corruption or guessing to some, it's very easy to come up with enormous figures that individuals use.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80489	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80490	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Tušak, so here you are as one of the arguments in your debate, and that was now said in replicas, you have stated that you do not see here exactly how many such complaints were and how financially it really meant. But what we certainly know is that there is a whole, also warned representatives of local self-government and regional self-government units, where they said there are specialized companies dealing with these complaints where lawyers take care of up to 300 thousand kunas in complaints depending on the value of the works. Often, those involved in the production or sale of fire extinguishers complain about the purchase of furniture and vice versa. So it doesn't matter at all what kind of activity they're in, it's only important to make a profit out of that contest they've been complaining about. So for example, if a local self - government unit leader makes a tender that the documentation must not be more than 30 days old after that, someone complains about that fact and can achieve significant, up to 150 thousand kuna. What I still wanted to warn you in your replica so you wouldn't stay in the air, but it seems to me in this debate that it's not clear, and you, I quote you, said, "We'll still complain. This law will not be resolved and will continue to complain." Be careful, there must be a possibility of a complaint. Unfortunately, there are human rights, there's everything. So we have to complain. I came from the education sector where you are looking out for the most irresponsible parent can send even an anonymous application to the ministry that a teacher who works, who is in long-term practice, who may also have significant problems although this complaint or lawsuit is completely unargumented. In this sense, complaints must be made available to people, and all of which, of course, and in this segment that is spoken of, this is a serious segment and a serious problem but it will not solve all the problems that others can face. For example, when I was head of the municipality, I reported a case that I had lost funds from the fund because someone irresponsibly complained and even did it on purpose for political reasons. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80491	Zlatko Tušak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80492	Thank you. Well, my colleague, Žagar, clearly everyone needs to be able to complain and it must be a legal basis and justice, but when you mention specialized companies that complain and achieve certain benefits. If the tenders were transparent and those complaints were not positively resolved, so those who were to discuss the tenders that they had put them in a good place, that they had complete all the documentation and that everything was transparently done would these professional complainants have a fertile ground to complain about and would they have achieved that financial benefit? They wouldn't, because they'd lose those disputes. And that's the element I wanted to talk about. With this problem, we will not solve the issue of intransparentity, thieving and guessing individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80493	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, Vice-President Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80494	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support the draft draft law amending the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, although we advocate that the procedure be in two readings, I think, for the sake of urgency, and as only two articles change, we will support an emergency procedure. In fact, this bill addresses two issues. The question of the value of the proceedings and the issue of limitation in infringement proceedings. It has already been introduced by both the deputy ministers and the colleagues who discussed the essential issue is the value of the Commission's appeal proceedings. This solution wants to sort out the question, so-called. professional complainers who have had a lot of talk. I would just like to remind you of the State Commission Report that we had here in the 10th month of 2013 where it was a recommendation for the development of public procurement and conclusion systems. One of these conclusions has just been, I will read: "In view of the possible appeal procedures, it is the State Commission's recommendation that the issue of legal representation costs in the appeal procedure should not be tied up at the level of the estimated value of the procurement cases." We discussed this last year at the 10th month and this State Commission report among other things, which was very high-qualityly done, was supported by the absolute majority. I think there were only five or six abstentions, no one against. What also resulted from this report by the Commission was that anyone who had the opportunity to participate in public procurement procedures could personally experience these problems. So here's a nice creamworth in one of the newspapers that was published in December of last year – "The Grill Business" Let's just short, lawyers pull out a million kunas by destroying public procurement tenders, quote: "If we were declaring a business venture in 2013, this story would come to the top of innovative solutions to find a state suckle that no one had previously thought of and legally consume." It's on the trail of exactly what this law wants to solve. Also the story of public procurement is extremely complex, we all advocate to be as public, transparent as possible, available to all and today there is not one public procurement process that is not available to every citizen. Namely, this Public Procurement Act and these problems that we are talking about today are what we are talking about by amending the law, says, before the 2008 Public Procurement Act, lawyers could get 700 kuna from appeal proceedings, which did not sound so tempting to anyone. Since 2008, the costs of the complaint have been assessed according to the estimated value of the purchase, the procedures have become appraisal and the costs have gone to heaven. So everything has its own history. At the time, it wasn't settled in this assembly, we were discussing the Public Procurement Act, I think we all agreed, and the same thing as it was a recommendation and a finding of a state commission who, through his work, has the most insight into certain articles, whether to change, whether to correct, in what way. We all want it to be public, transparent and accessible. What, when it comes to these complainants, we will get, I think it's somewhere, whether there will be a summer break State Commission report for 2013, and I agree that a far better debate might go in another direction if we see the findings of the State Commission for 2013. But I think that more than enough tells us the 2012 report, practically talks about the number of complaints, talks about the urgency and I think that one large number of these discussions through a replica or through a debate by clubs so far might go in another direction. I would just like to say, just as some presses have published, I say, quote, I can't claim to be correct, but no one has denied them: "Yes certain companies, let's say in 2013 total allocated costs were somewhere over 2.5 million kuna." So you have a company, one very interesting that appears in 2014, 921 thousand kuna through appeal procedures. The fact is that the trend in 2014 was reduced to 550,000 kuna, won, earned money through... And what's interesting was exclusively a complaint about documentation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There have been some thoughts that in some ways banning, which is impossible, which is not good because the Public Procurement Act is also in line with the European Commission's directives, so we still have to act in a way that is acceptable and that meets certain standards. I don't think we do. There's no need to say anything else. So the point is to try to contain what's certainly not good, which is not ethical, I won't talk about morality but it's also extremely important, we can ask ourselves a question, the report was in the 10th month, why maybe it hasn't responded before? This can ask a question, we can check when the law came in the procedure in the Parliament, of course there is a certain course, there is a certain course. But also, since it's a very complex matter, and what's good, it's a good thing that all the stakeholders are thinking about the bar first and foremost, so that it doesn't happen that we're correcting the mistake we're making a new mistake. Once again, the Croatian People's Party club will support the adoption of this law. I hope that the State Commission's 2013 report will provide some of the answers that have been heard from this pay phone and I think that we will be able to do the same in part then, and I am confident that we will also refer to these amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80495	Thank you. Replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80496	Thank you very much. counterpart Batinic, said there was a problem with the appeal process and that this was a reaction to the observed problem. There is no dispute that there is a problem with the appeal process, but one amendment to the law should also result in a reaction to an analysis of the existing situation and the results of an analysis of one area. And in the area of public procurement, there are hundreds of problems, not just this problem. This may be one of the least public procurement problems. Will we perhaps ask ourselves how if there were more laws for one area, why wouldn't the Public Procurement Act regulate the Commission's problem of procurement? Why do we have to have the Commission Act and then the Public Procurement Act? Now that we're talking about the commission, then we say it's not about public procurement, this is just the Commission's law. We're talking about public procurement as a problem. It would be more important to pass one such law, entirely. What about the problem of increasing the cost of procurement? It was also an emergency procedure, and that's all that's changed. If there is a problem of sharing the amount, the total amount of public procurement in amounts below the minimum public procurement allowed by direct contract. There's that problem and that problem, is there a competition problem? There is, of course. Is there a problem with minimum prices? It's the biggest problem, the smaller the price the bigger the problem. The choice of the lowest price has led to the biggest difficulties in the Republic of Croatia. How many just took advances and didn't do the work? If they could no longer participate in public procurement, then that would be a problem solved. And what about these pre-departure settlements that forgive all debts and participate in public procurement? Doesn't that encourage unfair competition? So many problems, and then we're just talking about one little, smallest problem that they're not going to solve the whole problem for again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80497	Thank you. Thank you very much. Replication response, Milorad Batinić. A microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80498	Thank you. Namely, fellow Maric, the Public Procurement Act, of course, is impossible to discuss, or discuss about the commission, not to mention the law, only the Public Procurement Act that we have discussed in this House, and more or less I think we do not have any dilemmas, I think that through the amendments and additions it has led to the level that we must meet and the European Commission's directives that we must respect, more or less it is in line with European norms and I do not have any major dilemmas. As for certain opportunities within the Public Procurement Act, whether someone will try or break up, etc., this is all defined by the Public Procurement Act. But I have one question. How many public procurement procedures have you conducted in practice? Did you have a chance, actually? Under the new law, it's extremely complex, so there are people who have a license, who go to monthly, annual education. Why? It is precisely because practice shows that it is necessary to educate additionally, and there is also a large role of the State Commission in this. So there's no perfect law. Whoever wants to manipulate something, so it's sad, but the assumption is they'll find a way, but let's have and think straight, positive, and the law is good. I would personally like it to be much simpler, but unfortunately it can't be simpler than it has to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80499	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80500	Thank you very much. Mr Batinić, do you really think that this undefined provision of amending the law in Article 1 which the State Commission says is deciding on the compensation of the costs of the appeal procedure and other requirements which are authorised in particular... the appeal procedures, in these proceedings the value of the case is not appraisal. Do you really think that this will solve the problem that we've all agreed to exist here? It won't, because this opens up space for you on a new complaint, an appeal to the one you determine what the value it can get from that appeal. So you just have to define the rules of the game, and if you want to go this way, then there's one word missing here, and that's a flat-rate, a flat-rate case. Either you have a cobweb or you have a value, you don't have a third option, but then that cobweb has to be adopted. Whether it's a commission, whether it's a resolute ministry, whether it's a minister or a government of the Republic of Croatia. So you just have to define it because you now have one object that definitely exists, you left it hanging in the air, you didn't define it. I don't know if the commission is going to say that some item that's no longer estimated by value is going to be 500, 1000, 10 thousand, 20 thousand, 50 grand, so an article if he meant to have a provision like this, then he's asking in the law on amending the law for detailed consideration that it can be done because this is how you open the space for someone to do what they want, and it's still not good. Because we know what happens when he manages to be able to do what he wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80501	Vice President Batinic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80502	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I would be, I'm an irreparable optimist. Will all problems be solved? We can see this through a certain period of time, but what about when this article will not come into force? The most common are complaints, that it will be at an annual level of 2 million, 3 million, etc. from the state budget. With this assumption it will not be reduced, the number of complaints, but justifiable complaints which are practically desirable, positive, precisely with the aim of making public procurement procedures better educated. Namely, fellow Shuker, there is a 2006 ruling number blah blah, etc. ... In 2006, in the complaint procedure of public procurement, the second-degree authority assesses the correctness and legality of the conduct of the procedure and the selection of the most favourable bidder, and the subject is not estimable. So, then already, what I was saying and in the debate. In 2008, the law gave the possibility again. As far as legal tariffs are concerned, it states very clearly that the value of the case in the complaint is not estimable, it is not contrary to the tariff on prizes and fees for the work of a lawyer. Here, tariffs, the Croatian Bar of Law, is very clearly defined what and how it exists. Are we gonna solve all the problems? Well probably not, but just like this, this kind of negative example in practice, the work of the state commission, the work of the ministry to improve quality and the Law on the State Commission and public procurement will lead to us raising the level of public procurement procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80503	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80504	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Vice President, I agree with you that the public procurement process is complex although this is about relatively short changes quite specifically in this law, but it's obvious that all of us, I've spent a lot of public procurement procedures, thank God that there have been such opportunities, but there are a lot of those colleagues in the units of local self-government who and the financial framework are having a hard time solving, etc. So, in that part, it's safe and obvious that we're all hurt by these professional mourners, we've talked about it many times. But what I'm saying is, if this problem was seen, let's say from the beginning that's trying to stop us from doing things, if this law came, let's say a proposal in March, what is it? Because sometimes it's a month to... today it's, it's June 05th today we're also aware of especially those who enter certain credit arrangements etc. Time is money, just that. And that's why it's a key question that I always want to highlight time and resolve complaints, to say a clear deadline until when. Sometimes it's been going on for an immensely long time, and certain arrangements of colleagues fail in a moment have big problems. If you say a month like that, let's say in that Law on Administrative Procedure that silences the administration, and sometimes you think about such similar rules that would in any case make it easier in certain units because people are making a great effort to finance that public procurement, some projects, and in that sense I think it is necessary to stress this moment too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80505	The reply to the replica of Vice President Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80506	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would like to direct you to my colleague Milinkovic, as I said in the opening debate on the 2012 report. We'll get much more quality information with the State Commission report in 2013 and I believe that we'll discuss it then, and we'll also replicate about it. In fact, it is evident from the 2012 State Commission's report that... a shortened appeal procedure and one high percentage, I think, somewhere as I recall over 93% of the cases resolved. So it can't go any faster than it can, it's a procedure. You know that very well. As far as the problem is concerned, I say I know what the problem is, so the fact is that in the local environments, especially smaller municipalities and towns that have smaller budgets can be extremely difficult to get to a quality person licensed, there are services that can do this. That'll always be a problem. But I'm saying exactly with these changes as much as they're flawed but these are key, that's the same thing on the trail where the decimal is guilty or not guilty, it's important where the decimal is, this is the decimal. This is one step to just prevent this manipulation of abuse. I hope there will be some results, but we will be able to judge these results after the 2013 report but for 2014 it means the second half of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80507	Ante Jerolimov, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80508	I am well aware that you believe in the noble purpose of this law and this desire to improve the procedure for resolving the appeal procedure. But I don't understand, and please explain to me how you're going to solve a lot more difficult problems when you're not in a position to solve this government's simplest problem, fill out the state commission with the required number of members. In fact, the state commission was supposed to count nine members, which is exactly what this government has changed and raised from 5 to 9 justifying it with a larger range of work. Today, the commission has three members and does not even have a president and these three people decide out of 11 billion and more than two thousand complaints and practically two people decide to do so most of the votes. You even changed the terms or conditions, you threw out the need for a professional exam and it took three years of experience in public procurement to get those 6 needed people. And then the conclusion is that this government can't get six people to do this work, or no one will work for that government anymore, could be the conclusion. Or give in to your partner and let him appoint these six people for the benefit of implementing this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80509	Reply to the replica Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80510	It's hard for me to comment. Namely, when the debate on the State Commission's 2013 report will be an opportunity to ask them that question. You have an opinion on something, but what does it say? It's just about the complexity of the business as far as public procurement is concerned. I also wonder, we have a large number especially on one side of the assembly of young people going out of school, educated but simply cannot fill out the state commission. Why? I need to hire a high school head, not just me in local self-government units, no frames. So I think things are a little bit wrong for us. I find it hard to answer this replica because it's more political, it's more suggestive of you, I have a completely different opinion on it. But I'm saying there's going to be a chance when there's going to be a debate on the state commission, so then you can get a full answer. I'm not the one who can answer that question, but I can sense what it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80511	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80512	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the independent representatives in the Croatian Parliament, we will in principle support these amendments to the Law on Public Procurement, not because we believe that we have touched on to be the same thing in this law, because while we are here, we are certainly doing public procurement and there is a lot going past the law or against the law. What all of us in this House need to be concerned is that there is a negative perception of our work in the people in the research and that we should all work hard on one side and on the other conditionedly to justify our presence in this House by our discussions and laws that have a connection with our daily life. He says one saying that one who's on a hike can't make a step. I'm afraid that's the way it is with this home if we're in the middle of reality then we can't step forward, we need that step, that step to fix it, and that's the adoption of adequate laws in this house so that this step can be done. But the problem is the gap, the problem is the awareness that we're in the middle of reality itself. You have that other saying, and I think it's attributable to Eve Andric who wrote the book on Drina's Turkey, so it's either one commentator or he himself said that they blame Drina, no one can, and no one will fix it. It's a metaphor for our reality. How to correct our reality that is in the process and the work of this House in my opinion is at a certain pace. It happens to us that we make laws, we create forests, we don't see important because in us the essential laws of the Constitution don't comply with what I mentioned yesterday, but we multiply the laws and practice goes through and through. When it comes to changes and this reality gap, then allow me an association as a theologian, when Jesus met in the theocratic state as Israel was in his day, he found himself in front of a forest of rules of positive or negative what should be done and what should not be done. And these rules were about seven hundred, as many days a year, there were so many orders to do and how many parts of the human body are negative regulations that shouldn't be done. Then Jesus, along with all these forest regulations that he came across, came down to two commandments, a love of God, and a neighbor. And that's what's important in the law. And St. Augustine has cut it short, and his saying, "Ama et Fac Quod Vis, loves, loves and does whatever you want, everything will be fine." So I believe that if we were to respect the law of the Constitution that we are all equal before the law in order to correct a lot of things but the repressive authorities that exist to protect the state should be more functional, we should do our job and I am afraid that there are many problems that should be talked about and about the people who work in it. So, you should try your best in my opinion... to reduce the number of regulations, that we do not think that the amount of regulations will improve practice rather than less regulation but that they will insist that they become an integral part of life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're not going to make any progress in the real world like this. I'm here to determine if that's really the case, he's going to continue his presentation of Mr. Damir Cain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80513	Honorable gentlemen of the council, Deputy Minister. Yes, Andric wonders and talks about the wrong Drina, if anything can be compared to the wrong Drina in this country then it is certainly this public procurement. This law is extremely short he has only 4 articles, I can even quote them: "The State Commission decides on the compensation of the costs of the appeal procedure..." etc., Article 2: "In relation to the statutes prescribed by this Act, the provisions of the infringement law apply.", Article 3, Article 4 of the Walk of Legis and that's just it. It is also argued here that, in the light of the value of the case of the appeal procedure in respect of which the compensation of the costs of the proceedings is determined at the request of the party and including the legal costs, the fact is that the rules currently in force do not define the question of the inestimability of the case before the State Commission for the control of the procurement procedure, etc. And I really think that this matter should be regulated in some way honestly and under quotes. What is certainly good is that here it is just yesterday if I am not wrong to publish information about the cost of the war crimes lawsuit committed by ex Yugoslavia, Serbia on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. Since the similar procedure failed with the BIH, I doubt Croatia will, so perhaps there would be a higher level of relations between the two states to consider whether to give up the claim but...... No, I said about the crime committed by ex Yugoslavia in these areas, or Serbia, that's what I said and that...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This House brought the Declaration of Homeland War '96. For years, I didn't vote for that Declaration. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's my problem, that's my problem, and I think I was right. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Please a little!]] And then and today, but let's let it go now. I'm interested in public procurement in the event of payment of the PR agency either in Istria, anywhere else, or what I link to corruption simply media. Public procurement has become an imaginary concept here. I am not against financing the media, but I am against public money being denied individuals the right to access the media, as it seems in some parts of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about this bill, it is said here, among other things, in Article 3 that in the last year large amounts of cash have been found paid for compensation for legal services on the basis of complaints made in the tendering documentation phase, which leads to doubts that the Institute is using the right to appeal in order to primarily charge these large amounts of costs, rather than safeguarding the rights of entities that have suffered or could suffer damages from alleged infringements of subjective rights in public procurement procedures. Here, among other things, there is talk of largely intellectual services which is another mechanism for, I will even say the withdrawal of budget money from local self-government. It is even worse when lawyers, former members of the DORH, enter business arrangements with local self-government, and the question arises whether individuals simply at a time when they were supposed to do their job protected teams in power or teams from business. What I also believe is that all these services that this law speaks of should be brought into line with real life. For honest work, honest pay, but in no way kidnapping. The problem with public procurement is a serious problem. You see how, just yesterday, they solve it in Venice, the mayor and 30 members of their... their executive council as I call it, they go into custody as soon as they make a deal with some companies from these premises for attempted corruption. It was similar in Croatia a few years ago. But all in all, I want to say that every public tender should be maximum transparency, regardless of what there are many who will claim that at least half of the jobs in advance are known who will be their performer. All in all, I personally believe that such a law should have entered into force or should have entered into force, that this law is at least correct and that all this must be done as far as possible to the court of the public of certain councils or parliament, that is, the opposition and, above all, check in the judiciary itself. But we also all know that in a system where the number is not known to certain public authorities, any functioning at local level, either at national level or when we talk about institutions, that one control is almost impossible. But all in all, this law is certainly welcome and this law is more than beneficial.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80514	Thank you very much, dear fellow Cain. We have a report of a replica. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80515	Thank you. Here you are talking about withdrawing money from the local budget at the expense of so-called. intellectual services. It would be good to report how much money was drawn from the state budget on account of so-called. intellectual services, for example in the process of failing or very seriously successful monetizations of Croatian highways, sales of Croatian postal banks and other services for which the Government took and took foreign consultants intellectual. None of these procedures were successful, except it seems that dozens and tens of millions of kunas of Croatian taxpayers were spent. When it comes to the Public Procurement Act itself, you said he was good. Maybe he's good. We had a family law a few days ago, we made the most hypertrophic Family Law with a proposal of 553 articles, and on the other hand we have a Public Procurement Act which is one of the smallest public procurement laws among the European Union countries that has only 180 articles. Instead of having the Public Procurement Act if we need 800 articles so that through 800 articles, we can further discuss various modes of public procurement, restrictions, to bring it in line with the guidelines of the European Commission because there are a whole series of guidelines with which it should still be coordinated, we have a small public procurement bill. But, for example, when it comes to one issue of family law, we produce the most hyper-hyper, ultra-trophic law to hyper-regulatory family relations and problems that can arise from them, as if our problem were social and family relations, not for example, public procurement and corruption that occurred in this country regarding public procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80516	Thank you very much. There's no answer to the replica. ... Is there? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, you should check in with your colleague. ... Who? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who are you calling? Here you go, Comrade Cain, but come in. Please come in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80517	On several occasions, I picked up this tile, but fine. I don't know what the Family Law has to do with this legal intervention, or the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, but I agree, Mr. Representative, with that part of your statement, that, when we talk about consulting services ordered by the Republic of Croatia, we should rely primarily on our own institutions. We, if nothing else to the state administration through this or that form, have about 240,000 people in that narrow, or wider area when we talk about universities and that sort of thing. If our universities can't be correct, let's say we approach procedures I don't know about or consulting on sales or I don't know what. What? ... Either the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts or I don't know who. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] We have simply enough institutions in the Republic of Croatia that have paid notes from the state budget so that they can do the job. When I spoke, I spoke exclusively of this intervention on these four articles and I believe that this intervention is useful and simply principled and that it is in some way necessary to restrain under the allegations of these legal costs which in certain cases are enormous and exceed what an ordinary citizen considers appropriate compensation for fair work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80518	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80519	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Cain, I don't know why you needed to touch the Homeland War, which caused obviously this kind of debate outside the microphone. But when you talk about these consulting services or what? The intellectual services and purchases of such services should then be viewed by the ministries, so you will see that there is a monopoly of certain ministries towards a particular house. Well, I'm not going to say here that I wouldn't have to go back to the information talks about what I've got on it, but it's obvious that money like that Fimi Media is back to the same, or some other consulting companies. When you talk about the wrong Drina, and you and your predecessor in speech, then Ivo Andric said that a people who have a bad self-government or have a foreign administration are beginning to think irrationally. So in such legal proposals, especially in public procurement, a little change. We keep bringing in a general mess and thinking about the citizens. It is true that the lawyer’s lobby has delivered certain points, i.e. articles on which professional complainants have appeared and have applied millions of kunas, rather than actually protecting one who complains, but only on the basis of the legal provision that they can complain and charge their legal expenses. So you should see all the houses there, too. Mr. Deputy Minister talked about it, didn't name it. But the million amounts were paid to lawyers' houses. About the stretch, the step forward, that's what Mr. My Last Namer used to say. But it's really about time we put an end to this phenomenon, so-called. professional complainants and those who actually through these complaints carry money to all Croatian citizens, to all our taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80520	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80521	We're almost in agreement, except I'd like to add that when we talk about Fima Media, the Fima Media that's being coloquially completed, etc. is nothing against an Istrian Fimi Media which is incomparably more subtle, more perfidious, so I would say more sophisticated than the one at the national level where on an annual level only for the media by the local self-government and the PR agency so that I would not forget the amount of at least 10 million kuna per year. And I don't mind that the media is being monitored and financially supported, but not that these media are being arranged in Split 3 in Pula or that the opposition is being banned from performing freely. When we talk about media and media financing, only in Istria County for these purposes is about 2.8 million kuna. For intellectual services over 5 million kunas, and for IT services somewhere around two and a half million kunas. That's about $11 million a year somewhere. On the other hand, when we look at how many counties are out there to fight addiction, it's funny numbers that our leaders don't know who eat with these cards within a month. I agree that this should also be spoken publicly here in the Parliament and the county assemblies and city and municipal councils. Because it's just that what's done starts to offend common sense, and if someone's getting in the way of being able to perform freely, it's something that's already bordering on criminal behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80522	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community in the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative Đuro Popijac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80523	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy. Here at the beginning again one principled remark. So, we've heard that the law changes three times in less than a year, and this time again by emergency procedure. The law itself is, by its own amount of articles and texts, extremely small and seemingly simple, but with its effects or other words, the consequences are actually extremely difficult and for this reason it might be necessary and useful to discuss this law in at least two readings if it had to be in this form and passed. We are fully aware and appreciate everything that is said in the introduction and what is here and written as an argument for the adoption of these changes and in the debate so far here is quite well and argued that there are certain anomalies throughout the process and public procurement processes and that there are, of course, participants or stakeholders of these processes. One of them is certainly the State Board of Appeals. And apparently, the State Board of Appeals has seen its problem and tried to solve it in a way that bureaucracy and administration has been working for years and only knows. To amend an article that physically probably facilitates certain treatment, reduces work, eliminates a bunch of items and papers that get on the table without thinking about the consequences of course which such a formulation or such a legal solution or such a change of law can in a negative sense and bring. We are aware of, of course, all together and we cannot ignore the fact that, especially in this very attractive process, given the amount of money that revolves in public procurement, there are always creative and contracting authorities and tenderers who will try to find space for their dishonest or even cannot say illegal or immoral, or how activities that do not appear in good faith are spoken here. But with this, one who proposes laws should always be ahead of the very assumptions and intentions and possibilities that such participants in this environment can come up with. And now let me say what is actually the measure of this change. So, here it explains that lately there has been a trend in a significant increase in the number of complaints exclusively on the tendering documents, and given certain circumstances, the assumption is that the same treatment is primarily with a view to the payment of compensation for legal services. We've heard about it here, which is why we should be changing something. Not based on the assumption, I guess. It further states that such a conclusion is drawn from the fact that certain complainants do not act in good faith before the appeal is made. Perhaps not, but here in no segment, at any point, there is no mention of the possibility that someone else in this process is still not acting in good faith. For example, the contracting authorities, and ultimately those who decide on these complaints themselves. What about that side of good faith and that side of any such or such intention? So, we're aware of the consequences and we're dealing with it in some way, whether it's real or not, we're convinced that it's not, the consequences and the cause should be taken care of by someone else. And the very reasons for the remarks here in this law are that this Law on the State Commission, and something about the Public Procurement Act, let someone else do it, it's not our problem. And it just generates a new problem. It is also interesting that it further states in this explanation that a large number of cash amounts, large amounts, have been observed in the past year, which have been paid for fees on behalf of legal services based on complaints made in the tendering phase. Which raises the suspicion that the Institute of Appeals is being used to primarily charge these large amounts of costs. So when is the great amount of expenses paid? They pay off when the client loses the dispute. So, when the appeal is adopted, I guess that's when big expenses are paid. So here we find that in the last year we've had a lot of big payments, that's supposed to be, then that's also big amounts in public competitions. So now I'm asking how is it possible for us to think only about the possible malicious intent of lawyers and complainants to raise money in the process of complaints that are being put forward by the way? And we're not asking how it's possible to create tender documentation of large tenders, so here it's said that large fees have been paid, which fall under appeal procedures. We don't even open a topic about it. So it's not a question of this law that's a question of another process. And that's the problem with all the problems. So, we're finding and we agree that someone has unholy intentions but we don't even have a problem with how it comes to the fact that we're producing tender documentation for large amounts and we're assuming that God forbid that such processes might be done on purpose by the contracting authorities just for the purpose of charging large legal fees for complaints. And now we're dealing with it by canceling our fees. And what's the consequence? We're not even able to think about it, we've already been here and there's been a mention of it. So is the State Commission going to get rid of a large number of complaints that way? Probably will because no one's going to work for 625 kuna, I don't know where that came from. It says here that the State Commission will decide for itself what the appeal procedure is worth. So, what's the consequence? There won't be any complaints, all right. Will the tender documents be fixed for this reason? Who's going to make them do it like that? Then who will valorize them, and what mechanisms will they be able to assess in the first place? So, we won't have any complaints, so then the State Commission could not act like that, she could refuse those complaints because they're only for legal fees. If they so claim to be the reasons for this problem, and not that the reasons for the problems are in those who write competitions or don't write them at the end, who knows who writes it. The next problem is certainly what is already mentioned, and that is definitely this article 1. So, it says here the State Commission decides on compensation for the costs of the appeal procedure. The lawyers will know better if it's even possible. Is it possible in the legal system that something other than a body or I don't know who decides on the compensation of one regulated segment of business, these are legal tariffs. I don't understand if that's possible? And based on what criteria, and based on which processes, procedures or rules will the state commission do it in quality, right, fair, right, impartial, transparently, however you want? Where's that written? I don't know, maybe I didn't see that detail well enough. The deputy was talking about 625 kunas that it would cost the most, now that it should be in this law, so it's written I don't know, but let's interpret it, which means that actually the state commission will decide on cost compensation. It means more, or less, or I don't know how many thousands or kunas, or hundreds of thousands of kunas. Who, by which criteria, when, why, why, I don't know, it was the same in the replicas of speech. And what's happening to the government over and over again, and she hasn't learned anything from her previous failures, and that's a retroactive application again. So here it is said that this mechanism will also apply to all procedures that are under way. So, when we start one process was one legal regulation, when we eventually finish it, then there's going to be another, when we go into an investment worth one law, when we eventually have some kind of happiness, and then we end the investment, then there's going to be another law. As a rule, this is constantly happening, so that eventually the Constitutional Court would annul retroactive laws that, back in the 10th year, were able to tax what no one had dreamed 10 years ago that they would be taxed, etc. And yet one such law is written that assumes retroactive application. It's like we're nothing or we're nothing, but we've always known it, of course, but you're writing things like you don't know it's unconstitutional and the Constitutional Court is going to bring it down again, no matter who complains. And they're already getting ready because apparently according to the remarks many of them who think this is wrong. We do not say that this problem should not be solved, there is always a race of course in those who are able or who intend to abuse the system, those who regulate it, those who conduct it and those who control it. And public procurement is a specific area precisely because of those 40 billion kuna interests. And that's the fact, that's true, but I tried to open up some of the dilemmas that it's definitely open by this law, that when it's passed and started to apply we don't fall into even bigger problems, and then again in a year we grab our heads and say that we didn't know when we were bringing what was waiting for us when we were going to apply it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80524	Thank you, Your Honor. We've got a dozen replicas. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80525	Comrade Popioč, you have expressed surprise that this law in a year is the third time in the process of change and it is again an emergency procedure, and concerns about the transparency of the work of this state commission. I'm more concerned with the fact that it's a state commission that's been overseeing the public procurement process of about 11 billion kuna over the past six months. And one of those big cases, according to the prime minister himself, where they couldn't act in public procurement proceedings other than the Commission's position, was to get those 230 and some cars. Under the law we are discussing today, the commission numbers 9 members, president, deputy and 7 members. As far as I'm aware, several months ago in that commission, there are only vice presidents and two members. So only three people figure as a state commission that has to have nine members by law. Who chooses the commission? The Croatian Parliament. How? On a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, if the Parliament itself wanted to enforce the legal obligation to appoint members of the commission, it couldn't because it wasn't an authorised proposer. And as they always resent us not to make any suggestions, to just criticise it, I believe that you will join my proposal to invite the Government to urgently propose to the Croatian Parliament the appointment and selection of the president of the state commission and five other members to fill it in so that it can normally comply with all the laws and legal obligations that the Croatian Parliament has before it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80526	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80527	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dude, that's a good idea. So maybe we should think about sitting down, agreeing to find the 9, 6 or maybe more people that are missing, and recommending to the government and them to return that proposal to us because it's a procedure for how they are, because as someone said to each other in the coalition, they can't agree. I didn't want to caricate the whole situation, of course. It seems to me that this law is the consequence of that, so three people can't make all that, 11 billion complaints that nine people could make. So they remembered to write a law that would definitely reduce that number of complaints to one minimum possible measure and that those 3 people further would be able to properly execute here in the next 7 years or at least half a year as long as this government would continue to assume. So it's unserious. The fact is, and the truth is, obviously this commission isn't working, because it can't, it can't formally, it can't legally, how does it even make decisions about anything? Instead of nine people three. And it's also one of the very clear indicators of all the nightmares or something else, not to use any worse word, government in the entire system today's public administration and how the state works today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80528	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80529	Thank you very much. Mr. Popič, you have also paid attention to the public who is watching this Croatian Parliament and to us MPs and to the other side, therefore not only those who are professionally complaining, but also to the actions of the orderly who, you said so yourself, and their intentions which can be both dishonest and not in good faith and perhaps even in connection with the complainants, and then closes one chain of these wicked orderlies that enable actually appeal procedures and the collection of legal costs and very, very high. You don't have, like me, the data or they share it or how it's being resolved financially, but you actually turned it around, so what they say is, the saw goes wrong and you talked about the orderlies themselves, and I'm not going to say I believe it or I don't believe it has it, but you should think about it anyway, just like you said. The fact that this height of the appeal procedure is abolished and comes down to those 625 kuna basics, to say tariff lawyers, in any case and we talked to the club that we would support this legislative proposal in that segment, but that this side that you were talking about should also be looked at and perhaps soon bring some new addition to the law again, in that sense in any case we should consider. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80530	The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80531	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, yes, I was actually going to say in my e-exposure that the way that the problem is solved is definitely there's another side. So complaints and lawyers are one side of the story, of course, but complaints are adopted by the state commission. What's the appeal for? One part of the day, one part not. Well, I guess because these complaints were founded, of course there's that, but it's the paperwork, they could have complained about the paperwork in some kind of previous procedure. They could have, but they couldn't complain, so the commission could have done something else, but, of course, the commission wants to work by law, which she doesn't care what this is, it's not my money. And then why is it that the responsibility of the one who keeps writing here in public competitions of large amounts is not considered? And that now raises the question, it says in large amounts, that large amounts have been paid to lawyers, so I guess that's a lot of purchases. So large procurements are not done by people who, in small local areas, have neither the profession nor the knowledge, nor the ability, and why the whole effort and energy is not also money, ultimately, directed to help in these processes, those who do not have enough knowledge, enough knowledge, read about the mechanisms of public procurement, and then teach them how to write quality competitions. Why must this be done in quality for the EU? Who thinks there's gonna be some kind of appeal? There isn't. When you do the process right, then you get the money, if in any process you're not able to do it, you won't get the money. We spin the process and then we say that someone in the process finds some kind of cavities. Why did it happen after all?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80532	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Your Honor. New replica, respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80533	Here, fellow Drinker, you were talking about complaints, the appeal procedure and what's changed in this law. This is where the Constitutional Court has taken its stand and definitely this has to change, and if it will affect the reduction of the number of complaints, it should in any case support such a thing. Now, what is changing, since it has been said that the value of the case is not estimable in these proceedings, and that the State Commission will decide on the compensation of the costs of the appeal procedure and other requirements which are criteria and parameters for such a thing. As far as the law itself is concerned, we have in breach provisions only Article 20 and that Article 20 exclusively goes to units of local, regional and regional self-government or to any legal person in the event that they violate the provisions of Article 6 so that it is imposed... from 50,000 to million kuna. In any case, whether it was ever thought of the mass of complaints, and repeatedly mentioned here, professional mourners, who are thus trying to get time. I can say from some personal example from two years ago where my company complained about a public procurement procedure which, while the procedure was being resolved practically as the company had ceased to exist, at that point we failed to invest 7 million kuna. No one was subject to any sanctions because of the unfounded complaint with intent or any particular purpose, and I do not see that neither in this law nor in the Public Procurement Act, any such complaints that were unfounded, which were eventually rejected by the state commission, in which way sanctioned those who did definitely any damage to the contracting authority because they could not, in the planned time-limits, literally execute...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80534	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80535	Thank you, Mr. President. I think you've also now raised one of the essential issues of the whole public procurement process. It is true that in the processes of public procurement, things happen and that various interests occur both in the processes and in the proceedings of complaints, and not only from these... to raise legal tariffs or fees. That's probably the problem, there's a much bigger problem, and that's the part that's not covered by this topic and these changes that you're talking about. So, it seems in that, the blockade in this entire process of unfounded complaints and major economic damage, without any... and the consequences of those who do so with their unfounded complaints, but we are also saying that the effort and should be directed towards solving such opportunities, the anomalies that exist in the law, which this fact that we are now going to reduce tariff lawyers for this part, this will not be solved. However, when you talk about practice here, the promoter used the argument that it was 2006, 2010. The Administrative Court has decided that this estimated value of these procurements is not. However, you have a verdict in 2011 where it says that, so there are different practices in our legal system, so maybe it's not God knows what kind of argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80536	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A new replica, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80537	Thank you. You said one definition of this problem. So this law solves the consequences, not the cause. And I really think this is getting rid of the consequences, of course, and it needs to be solved. But by talking to people who do this job and as contractors and as contractors, we have concluded the following, so what is the basic thing? The previous question is to amend the Public Procurement Act in a way that changes the criteria of the lowest offer. I repeat, people believe that this should be resolved in a way that the highest and lowest bids are cast out and that the medium sizes offered are taken into account, in accordance with the criteria, because it will not more realistically address the problem called the best offer which, if the lowest one is generally not necessarily the best one. They also concluded and said that this model with the lowest price has significantly collapsed the entire construction sector because performers or investors have received poor quality facilities. Since the largest investor is obviously a state-owned country, it is then concluded that it is poor quality in infrastructure facilities, it is a visible thing in practice. In addition, it has proved to be a poor quality in completing housing by the principle of the lowest offer. So we need to start from the beginning and change the Public Procurement Act essentially.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80538	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80539	Thank you very much. Yes, obviously you too are opening up much deeper questions than this one that has been dealing with these short changes with perhaps deeper consequences, which is precisely the life that has been going on in public procurement and it has been going on since this regulation is present, more than a dozen years can. We have good regulation, of course, it even in the negotiation processes was one of the first to end up as a chapter, but that life, that practice, that creativity of both sides, which is why we say that there are always in every segment of life and work probably and action at least two sides and so in this and the problem is always there somewhere. So what you're saying is that the criteria that define only one way or another are neither the lowest nor the highest price, and we see the consequences of ultimately various economic activities and brought about, so import increases, non-quality goods, non-selective asphyxiation of their own production there. But the fact is that the mechanism of public procurement as well as in most developed countries is a good driver of the economy of our own, domestic and we were not able to do so, and obviously we didn't realize today and consume it in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80540	Thank you very much. And respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80541	A colleague in respect of Article 1(2) on compensation for the costs of the appeal proceedings as opposed to you, I consider this to be a good solution above all by preventing different abuses without touching the rights of the complainant or the party that he considers to be damaged. I see no reason here to complain about those who will no longer market and who have the grace to represent precisely those who have great values. I think it's just fair that it's exactly what you said yourself and you heard it's going to be 600, 700 kuna, which is not a small tariff at all. You can imagine that someone who knows they won't succeed in the dispute is slow enough to write in a complaint I'm complaining and take a few tens and tens of thousands of kunas if not more. Is that just? In the end, the total costs are reduced in this way, and nothing touches the very result of the dispute. Secondly, what you say but you point out yourself that it is not the subject of this law but the Public Procurement Act, I agree with you, where you speak precisely about those things that are abolished before the Board of Appeal that such an object should return. It's less evil. So ultimately, there is the possibility of appeal and a second-degree procedure, but the biggest problem is corruption, and we have such units of local self-government where those who are certainly right don't dare at all, you can imagine what the degree of this corruption is, that they don't dare make a statement at all because they know they'll never come to order again or think they might get a job. It's one problem that exists and can't deny anyone and that's the biggest problem. And the other problem is where they deal with it, so whoever doesn't get it, and of course they don't complain, doesn't get the job, he's a subcontractor. And, of course, this problem that came up here that jobs get those who pointed out the cheapest offer, the lowest offer. But in the finale, it turns out to be the most expensive, formally expensive, and second and quality, because it doesn't satisfy any quality at all. That's our problem, and I think we all have to agree on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80542	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80543	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, I don't know if you've listened well to me, but I've asked, based on what the State Commission will decide on compensation for the costs of the appeal procedure, what criteria, what rules, what value of anything. So if it's written somewhere, is it somewhere that everyone who complains is going to know that, which rules will be made. It's tariff-based, it's tariff-based and now it's like that. ... You didn't answer that when you had it, but I don't know what the purpose of your replica was to polarize just about something that I, here I didn't open up as a question, but the question was just any way we're going to know that it would all be transparent, quality and all that it should be. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And that's why we're finally changing this law for reasons and reasons. And that mechanisms are the ones that are good here to prevent all that you're saying that those who take, grab or don't know something of course we can't take as a serious debate in this. And what about the ones that make those complaints work, so someone's writing these tenders that are going down on the state commission. So someone announces such competitions. No, it's not a problem and the problem is those who complain, it's a problem and they take a certain fee for it. So why are they writing contests that fall on the state commission and at the level of documentation as you yourself admit. And what about when it won't be? What kind of contests will it be then and what kind of documentation it will be and for whom it will be prepared when it is prevented or people will no longer have any interest in complaining because you say there will be no more big money in these processes. Well, I think it's a little contradictory everything you're saying. But here's the thing, you understand a little bit, and this wasn't what was expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80544	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Drazenko Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80545	Thank you. I'd like to rely on this debate a little while ago. Therefore, it will be assessed as it has been, according to the bar tariff, only so far, estimated according to the value of the items of purchase and now, according to the lawyer's tariff, it is stated that the value of the items of the dispute is estimated when the value of the case is invaluable. It's exactly fixed. I think it's about 10, 10 points. That's right, that's exactly what's prescribed and that's quite clear. So you've concluded that he's going to cut down on the appeal business. And it's going to shrink, but mostly in those cases when it comes to a court case, that's what I'm calling it. Therefore, in those cases where the complaint was lodged only for the collection of costs in one-off amounts and without the right intention to slow down this real procurement procedure. There's gonna cut it down. That's good. Those who have....../The speaker has turned off./ So, those who have, I apologize, those who have an interest in slowing down the implementation of a certain public procurement procedure because they have been violated by their law acknowledgeing the interests will continue to react by appeal. [[/The President's intrusion: Please join your colleague. You should write that down.]] Well, that's basic, elemental business logic. So, every serious company either has a home lawyer or has a lawyer on its own. And it certainly will react if there is a reasonable reason it will not prevent him from the fact that now the lower cost is prescribed, the lower cost of the procedure. Or lawyers have an obligation to represent a party that consults them with a request for professional assistance, should not refuse without justifiable reason. But if, in the present situation, the complainants were to file a complaint for no other reason than to collect compensation for those expenses, here's what we're not going to do. So that's the meaning of this bill that's now being passed. The second is the responsible person of the contracting authority who caused damage by their actions. It's a matter of damages. It has nothing to do with this. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80546	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80547	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I don't doubt that you may know such cases, and you can explicitly tell who was the complainant and who complained only to collect the fee. That he was sure he'd take a fee. And how can he be sure? Especially as it says here in fees, large fees, means large-scale tenders. So he can be sure, I suppose, you're suggesting because he made a deal with the client. Well, he didn't. So, you say there are those who just complained about taking a fee. I can assume it does, too. And how do I know that? Do you know that? Can we name it? Is that a state commission? Is he getting into that kind of analysis? So if he knows why he doesn't say no, then why doesn't he? Then why do you accept the appeal? If he knows they've been complaining just to steal money to say so. How would they know it would work? And also because the tender documentation is obviously to blame. And why is she guilty? Someone didn't know. Please tell me someone didn't know how to write the tender documentation of large amounts. Well, someone's not complaining about 2,000 kunas, I guess. Well, there's probably no such complaints. We don't know, maybe the analysis will show. It says big amounts here. Well, big competitions must be seriously written for reasons like this or whatever. But you say and you know that there was a contest, or appeal that only happened because of the bar fees. I can confirm that you probably do, but I don't know what those are, maybe you know, maybe someone else knows that that's the case. But then that's also the problem with the client, maybe even bigger than the one who complains... A lawyer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80548	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80549	Thank you. Well, fellow Poppie, you're putting me in a position to join the predecessors because I also didn't really understand what your thesis is about to be that there won't be any complaints at all because there will be limited legal fees. You said it like that, you said it, and you put a weight on it. And I wouldn't, I mean I just don't really understand what the point is, and whether the appeal procedure has a focus on a lawyer's fee, or whether it has a focus on the subject of the appeal procedure. Here, I really think so, and however I turn, I haven't been able to figure out exactly what position you represent nor can I understand exactly why you represent her. And I'm trying to figure out what you're promoting. And I understand this second part of the problem of the tender documentation, the specifications that go hand in hand to a particular participant in this process, and that it happens and often on various sides. And we had an example of almost eclant recently in the MUP of the procurement of these SUVs where the tender documentation was set for one bidder and eventually the competition fell because the other was complaining. Of course he was complaining. But it's stupid of him to be honored by some kind of lost profit. So let him charge his fee according to some kind of captainship, how long it took to write 7 pages of appeal and it's over. I mean, I don't understand that idea at all. Or how we work at all and how we're actually prepared to both state and local and municipal and city money to throw away and wonder how it's ever been.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80550	The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80551	Thank you. Very interesting. That's what the Proposer wrote, so he said the number of complaints is increasing because of the legal tariffs and assumes that now that it's not going to be that the number of complaints will be reduced. It says here. And now that I'm supposed to interpret it or not, it's yours, but I don't just agree that it's the only reason. You don't even bother with what I said. Here's what you said about you agreeing with other things and saying that the problem is who complains and gets disputes, and you're not saying that the problem is the one that allows disputes to be won, which is the documentation that falls on the State Commission's charge. That's not a problem, and the problem is those who consume that space. I agree that he may not be good, that it should be regulated to make these tariffs more normal, better, more quality, more reasonable, that's fine. But aren't we opening up with all this completely different process? It was my dilemma, and I put it on the table as arguments and reasons why this law should be considered or changed by him, something else about public procurement. Here when people wrote their comments, the promoter said it didn't matter because it was all settled or should be dealt with in the Public Procurement Act, and it doesn't work out. So it's very superficially accessible to the problem that... that wants to end up being solved and well solved. This process is dynamic and it really needs to be changed according to what is happening on the ground. We're aware of that. But there's always two sides, that's what I'm talking about. I'm not saying lawyers don't raise money on it, they raise it, but through the space that's available here. But that's not the only reason and that's not the reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80552	Thank you very much. A new replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80553	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Let's try to put this law into the monetization of Croatian highways and what would have happened if it hadn't been for the State's Attorney's Office to react, but if it had responded to what the consultants we paid fatly for should have looked like a contract for sale, not monetization, cashing, whatever we want, of Croatian highways. How much would it cost the Croatian state to write a proposal for a contract that does not respect the basic provisions of Croatian laws? And we're surprised that some small township or some small town isn't able to write tender documentation for this, for what a colleague mentioned cars. And this with the monetization went unnoticed because he probably raped the press, there's no writing about it, but the question is what would really happen if the State's Attorney's office hadn't looked at that material and didn't realize what was going on inside. Now we come to what you said legal security, legal uncertainty. So it sends to the world a legal picture of the legal uncertainty of the Republic of Croatia. Any retroactive provision on any law sends a picture of legal uncertainty because a country that is not legally able to protect someone who invests in their money, protects someone's property, gives the impression of legal uncertainty. And these provisions of the law force us to have the same legal uncertainty because you do not have anything clearly defined in Article 1. If we say there won't be a complaint, the one who complains, his expenses charged by some percentage value, the estimated value of the facility, then let's say that, let's add that word to the cobwebs, who's going to be the cobwebs, that it's going to be a lawyer, it doesn't matter, but to know what it's going to be, that this law says it. But I'm saying, the law on actually concessioning and monetizing highways clearly states that maybe someone wanted to play some kind of game.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80554	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80555	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's when someone for consulting services, for one process that 60-70 million, then one state body puts it under question and says nothing good, again and again, whether a new series of new consulting services is going to happen now, to explain to everyone what the State's Attorney's office was going to say or simply if, unfortunately, this goes into the process of hiring people in the public system who know how to work, so do it right or we're going to spend the new 50-60 million again, we don't know that. In fact, very little about all of it we know. So all this time that we're talking about this short bill and it only confirms the fact that the subject is very complex, that this topic that we want to address in this way is very superficially, casually and not fully out of line and discussed on the table and that again we don't know, or we can assume what the consequences and this law will have for the participants in these processes, as we see all the consequences, everything this government has been bringing to the Croatian economy and Croatian society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80556	Thank you too, dear colleague. I would now first inform my colleagues and colleagues that we are planning this afternoon, so at 15.00 I would like to do a report on the implementation of the law on access to information for 2013. Then, the proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials and the Proposal for a Decision to appoint members of the Committee on Ethics, Science, Higher Education in order to inform you tomorrow, so that we can work on the Annual Defence Report for 2013 tomorrow. Please, since there are changes that you have information. You want to replicate my colleague? Nothing. Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. But I'm sorry, I have an honor. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues, it is my honor to welcome to the Croatian Parliament gallery the delegation of regional parliamentary committees for defence and security who participate in the annual meeting of the regional parliamentary defence and security committees held here today in the Croatian Parliament. Please welcome them. I want a pleasant stay and good work in the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] And now I ask the respected representative of Kresimir Bubal on behalf of the HDSB Representatives' Club to present their views.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80557	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law amending the Law on the State Commission to control the procurement procedure with the final proposal for a law. Although not long ago 13.11.2013, we had an emergency procedure of the Public Procurement Act, where we were then suggesting what is happening in local, regional or national units. But as it was visible, it took six months for someone to really wake up and react. And after our cry in the Croatian Parliament, but also after the cry of the President of the Community, Mr Tolusic's county where he clearly spoke about what was going on in the public procurement process. But I want to say right away at the beginning that there's less work to do, that we're stalling investment, we're falling for a gross social product, and there's a delay in public procurement, and a good part of the local unit, regional administrations are just raising loans to go into investments, and they're paying interkalating interest in the time until public procurement is carried out. But what happens especially in the construction sector is dumping, there is a dumping price. But there's also a lot of complaints about the documentation itself, but there's also a lot of public procurement procedures. It would have been correct of the Ministry of RES if it had submitted a list of how many complaints there had been in 2013, 2012, 2011. But here, I tried a little bit just to get that information. In 2013, we had 2098 complaints, and a year earlier in 1728, of which 22 were positively resolved. They've been accepted. So one small number. But also what is seen from the debate, but also from the information that we have from the field that there has been a blatant litigation of individual law firms or themselves in the procurement process. There arises unnecessary costs of administration, unnecessary costs of litigation, unnecessary costs of legal fees. But when we talked about public procurement then we also talked about legal tariffs and that should also be talked about in the Croatian Parliament because these tariffs are quite large both for local, regional administration units and for our fellow citizens. But looking at what the deputy minister said was that it would be the amount of 625 kuna. And why exactly 625? Probably because it's on the tariff, but I'd like that amount to be 500 kuna. But it is evident that in the processes themselves, the complaints on the documentation amounted to 100,000, even more kunas and just some of the individual food houses are precisely on these public procurement procedures. But what we at the HDSSB club often say is that both regionalisation and decentralisation are needed in Croatia, but also the unification of units of local and regional administrations. So why am I saying that? In order to reduce the costs of the state apparatus, but also because we don't have enough licensed people for the procurement process, so by unifying the unit of local and regional administrations and saving ourselves and having enough competent people to carry out public procurement procedures, I believe that this number of complaints would be lower than it was last year. Looking at the changes to the laws we've just had in an emergency procedure sure that an increase in the amount of minimum or bagatel public procurement, so we'd like to see what the results are in the first six months with these changes. Whether the number of orders has increased or not, and we are assessing since the amount of the minimum public procurement has increased that it may be easier to work with local administration units but that we are getting more expensive prices in units of local, regional administration, but also at the state level. But looking at the same thing that is often mentioned is the estimated value of purchasing whether we can tolerate up to five or up to 10% of missed investment when we see on the dumping market, when we see that the market is really priced by those who destroy companies and therefore see an increasing number of pre-banking and bankruptcy situations on the market. However, exactly what I was saying in the Public Procurement Act itself is Article 146 of the applicable law regarding economic operators who almost always decide to appeal without prior communication with the contracting authority who would, in most cases, agree to certain amendments to the documentation. It is also a very important factor in order to reduce exactly the procedure of people who complain because in the process itself, if there were such communication and it would allow for Article 146. The public procurement law is certain that the procedure would be much faster and more operational. But I'll remind you right in that debate I was talking about professional complainants just on the 13th of 11th, so when my colleague Sanader was replicating me from the bench he said that you were just about to mention professional complainants that I hit the srid. So, 13.11.2013. And seeing as it took six months for the Resort Ministry to launch this mechanism because just looking at the units of local and regional administration to have big problems, sometimes a year goes by to get the performer then surely we were showing concern at that point that the Public Procurement Act should be changed as I say today. It's not enough to say that the tariff price is going to be 625 kuna, but it's important to change the law. Not for us, but for the units of local and regional administration, for speeding up the process. But what comes especially to us are structural funds where we will have a certain time to conduct the public procurement procedures themselves, especially when we talk about large investments. And what's important is we'll have deadlines, but I'm afraid the deadlines for carrying out the work and preparing the investment itself will sometimes be longer terms of regret and public procurement procedures than we have time to implement the whole project. Therefore, DECOM must be responsible or has to respond more quickly. within 30 days of that Article 171(2), precisely because of those professional complainants. We need to speed up the process, we need to be faster and more operational and that must be the imperative of this Croatian Parliament. However, seeing what is happening in the public procurement process, it is certainly necessary to point to mandatory amendments to the Public Procurement Act and to other elements. But what is most important in a way that as a condition for making a complaint on the publication of a call for competition in relation to the content of the call for competition and documentation and documentation if there is and... Amendments to the tendering documentation in relation to the content of the change in the documentation shall determine the obligation of the economic operator to refer the request for clarification to the contracting authority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I say, clarification to the client. And only if the contracting authority does not respond, or does not amend the disputed item or act in accordance with the economic operator's proposal is the economic operator's right to make an appeal. That's what's important to avoid regret at all, and that's what we talked about a few months ago. But also looking at the fees for the initiation of the appeal that had just been defined in Article 169 for a job estimated 500 thousand kuna, up to that job of over 10 million kuna, I think that those levels should be reduced just so that those who are right and there are, we speak of these 1728 that I had 22 to make it easier for the team to work. And these professional complainants were especially seen before some elections when some investments were to be made, so there's no way you're going to conduct a public procurement procedure, but it's just taking a while from these professional complainants, the public procurement process and the start of the investments themselves. Our investments are important to us. Looking at our GDP, looking at the number of unemployed in the Republic of Croatia without investment and a new investment cycle, and here I also think about enabling and reducing this regulation safely to be faster and more operational. So now that we're looking at every unit of local administration, there's got to be half the lawyers in order to function legally because the review comes in, and then the second one comes in, and it's certain that you care about the unconditional opinion. Therefore, we have put too much regulation into legal frameworks that do not allow faster and more operational operations than make it difficult. These fees were a motivating factor for lawyers, but I believe this goes one step further and reduces that possibility. But that there will be complaints, I estimate it will be over at the same level. So what the Deputy Minister just said is that professional complainants go into history absolutely disagree with it, they will be, but the Public Procurement Act has to be amended to reduce this very space. What we are about to also have to talk about here are legal tariffs that are quite large for our citizens who are growing more and more difficult to argue and that the data from our courts about the number of amounts paid because of the length of the disputes themselves will certainly be an interesting figure when it appears in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the HDSSB club supports this draft law amending the Law on the State Commission to control the procurement process with the final draft law, but we are doing the job fully and changing the Public Procurement Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80558	Thank you, too, but at your point of view of the club there is a replica of the respected representative Boro Grubisic from the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80559	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You, as we have concluded, gave the green light to this legislative proposal, but in your debate you spoke very constructively about improving the entire Public Procurement Act. So what you were saying about the arrangements and talks of the client and who, therefore, is calling a tender for any purchase, that would be what would be, which would reduce the number of complaints mainly when you talked about the number of 2 098 complaints that were last year, and 22 complaints were actually objective and actually adopted, those 2 thousands and a few were actually rejected. And these are those professionals who deal in the profession, not to tell nationality or party belongings to complaints that don't actually have an objective foothold. Here is an example of which, you were talking about large investments, namely according to the budget of the Croatian Roads in Slavonski Brod, should be built underpass on the state road D423, so the underpass in Osijek Street, which you also know because you are waiting on it, half an hour waiting for 200 trains passing daily. Unfortunately, a tender was launched for this, for the performance of the work on the underpass, the appeal was followed, the appeal procedure was delayed, and instead of the work starting in the spring of this year, so the season when the public works are built, this will be delayed and I believe that if it stays in the budget for next year, it will only start a year in March or April. So, a year of late works that are approved, which have a foothold in the budget of Croatian roads. But here, there's no shovel, there's no hack on that underpass. It is sad and really necessary to prevent and prevent these professional regrets from holding back investment processes like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80560	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80561	Well, clearly we were at the club arguing about the details and that this is a step forward. But it's obvious that either we've had a lot of professional complainants and this is going to improve a little bit, but you'll see Deputy Minister when you study this year with the figure, they won't be corrected much. But also when we talk about 1728, 22 complaints that they've been accepted, then it's going to be a little pebble, but you're going to have to change the Public Procurement Act to reduce and exactly what we're getting from the field, and I believe you're getting to reduce that particular number of complaints. But we'll also see an analysis and I expect after these limits that you've changed from 70 to 200, 200 to 500, etc. whether public procurement prices have increased in local and regional administration units with this limit increase, i.e. Those little public procurements, and I'm sure they are. I'm sorry, Boro, about Osijek in Brod, it's been crying out there for years, it's a big traffic problem, and I expect it to finally pass the public procurement process and start the works.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80562	Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80563	Thank you. Well, here you are, my colleague Bubalo, talking about how to change the Public Procurement Act. I agree, I think it's one of those capital laws that should actually be completely changed and seriously changed, not through these changes and complemented by several articles, on several occasions. I mentioned that the Austrian law of a state which is not, indeed, recognized on all scales as a country of low corruption, there are 360 and some articles, highly elaborated and have put a lot of effort into actually trying to tackle the problem of corruption that always follows public procurement in Austria without talking about Croatia. While we have one relatively undeveloped law and through these few changes and additions in several cycles we actually stretch it instead of, to actually approach a new bill. I think it would be, that it would be one of the laws that would be very good and very clever in whole and much more elaborate and elaborate a much better question under the performer, and elaborate the question of the specification of the documentation, and elaborate the issue of offers that stand aside, departing from the usual ones, that topic exists, and the whole series of things are actually one far more extensive and one much more, if we want both more incarcerated and conservative law than this one is present. When it comes to small municipalities and the problem of decentralisation, so look, I don't know if there are examples of three small municipalities joining in the joint public procurement of office materials, toilet sanitary and toilet paper, so there's no. Each one for himself, you say, has a lawyer, gives his public procurement, makes his own documentation, it's really a problem and the functioning of that small public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80564	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80565	Thank you very much. Namely, there were several thesis. When we talk about public procurement and changing a few articles, I find it insufficient, and this speaks about our seriousness about how we change laws as well as taxes very often, and that is why we are among the 10 worst economies. That's exactly what he's saying about our seriousness. But now international competitions are coming about the structural funds of Europe, and they're giving us to take and certainly want to change our legal, legal solutions and that's why we're getting those directives. However, exactly what you mentioned to Djurovic, if there were decentralisation in Croatia, if regionalisation were to occur, if the units of local administration were to be united, then the quantities would be higher, which would mean lower prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80566	Dear fellow MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80567	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear colleague, everything you said in your debate all stands, you have told the truth. You said what there is and what someone who doesn't know about it or who deliberately doesn't want to know declare the ignorant to those who don't understand his or her knowledge. You said there are professional mourners, there are professional mourners who know and who do it in cooperation with private companies. In the Penal Code, we have also legalized the criminal acts of corruption in the private sector for many years, where even though they are only because it is a great value of slowness, which is the prospect of not getting a dispute almost no but it can be charged. Isn't that what this is about? What company is knowingly damaging itself? And that's what the records are, and even in the annual report that we have on public procurement, that's what you're talking about, and that needs especially... And who cares about the fact itself, when we always say that the costs are large, one or the other, that this proposal reduces the costs of the appeal process? They, however, even those who are not now looking, who are not looking to get slow, allow them to... and to speculate there. So, who does that bother? Let those who pretend not to understand here, I know why this bothers them. And something else you said, so you mentioned it well. Such a dispute in invaluable cases, it does not refer to some that people themselves will assess who are working on complaints what the value will be. That's why they exist, but you don't want to know or want to hear or shine a great ignorance. There's a tariff, an attorney's tariff which precisely states in its particular tariff number for administrative disputes how many points are obtained...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80568	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80569	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Anticevic, and we at the HDSSB club are very important, but we have professional complainants who are in coordination, as you say, with private companies. But there will also be after these changes, because we have to go to full changes to the Public Procurement Act. But what I also mentioned, and that's what you just touched, it's a legal tariff. A legal tariff that's pretty big for one of our average citizens or for one small development company. Therefore, we should also touch hot potatoes such as the Public Procurement Act, especially the bar fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80570	Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80571	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bubalo, so we all agree that there is a problem, and in fact this legal solution is trying to solve this problem, and these are professional mourners, people who are very little pregnant taking big money. On the other hand, the appeal is right and the appeal must be made possible by all who wish to complain. The legal solution as provided for here must protect all participants, so the complainants and contractors and the state commission, which then assesses whether the complaint is justified or not. Now, speaking of local self-government units. The remarks have just come from there,...the mayor where things like this have been noted and, look, examples have been cited that due to some specific knowledge and competences, e.g. the diameter of the needle which is less than two hundred millimeters in the contest or which is indicated in the complaint that it did not specify the regular number of items the contracting authority or mislabelled one page. Because of these things they said, they actually charged damages of tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of kunas. These are things that come out of the context of what you were saying about decentralisation of local self-government units. In fact, I see this law, in this segment, this legal solution as the protection of units of local self-government because you need to know that every head of that body is also responsible and is equal to any municipality or city is not small. And as for the tariff itself, I think in this way, that's what counterpart Anticevic-Marinović said, clear and actually supported by those people who want to complain, and they know what awaits them, how much money they have to give. Nor could they have known at the outset how much money they could give and whether they could guarantee it with their assets if they lost the dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80572	Replicate response, distinguished representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80573	Thank you very much. Namely, fellow Zhagar, it is true that the county community reacted and when we look at the effort ratio and the amount of money, I also agree that the money was much bigger than the effort itself and we will frame it today. And we still have a lot of work to do right now in the Public Procurement Act, and one of the parts, I was just saying that. But even when we're talking about the lawyer's tariff and that's what we need... But the county community reacted to you when comparing the number of complaints in 2013/2012. In 2013, the number of complaints increased 16%, but increased, I estimate, and the number of public procurements because last year was an election year and there was a little more public procurement before the elections themselves, for investments that were under way. Therefore, a serious analysis is always needed, and for this today we have not received any serious analysis.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80574	Dear Representative Bubalo, may I ask you a question, do you know an anecdote with a professor and a student? When the professor told the student, I had little progress in your knowledge, but on the third exam, he took the third exam. What did the student say to him? Please, Professor, give me that little progress in the index. Excuse me, colleague Bubalo. [[Thank you very much.]] We're going to an individual debate for 10 minutes. Honorable representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80575	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, at the very beginning of the presentation on this bill, I would like to point out that this proposal contains indifference and contradiction. I draw attention to the fact that the form of the report on the consultation carried out with the interested public indicates that all objections have been rejected because they relate to the matter governed by the Public Procurement Act, not the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. However, it is precisely the Public Procurement Act of Article 138 that the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is competent to resolve complaints, as regards the procedures for the conclusion of public procurement contracts, framework agreements and competitions to which the proposal is currently under discussion. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The public procurement law lays down the powers of the State Commission, Article 164 of the regulation relating to the decision of the State Commission, and it may, among other things, suspend the appeal procedure, dismiss the appeal for indemnity, inadequacy, inadequacy, inadequacy, lack of legal interest and because it has been declared by an unauthorized person, reject the appeal, cancel the decision, procedure or action in the area covered by the illegality, including the discriminatory technical and other provisions of the call for competition, documentation for competition or other documents relating to the procurement procedure, annul the contract on public procurement or framework agreement or part thereof, and decide on a request for reimbursement of the costs of the appeal procedure which are otherwise defined in Article 170. The public procurement law where paragraph 2 is prescribed that the State Commission shall decide on the costs of the appeal procedure, determine who shall bear the costs of the appeal procedure and the amount thereof, and to whom and within what time limit they must be paid. In the assessment of the situation, the applicant represents the chronology of the defined assessment, i.e. the invaluability of the costs of the appeal procedure, starting from the 2003 law, which contained provisions which defined the costs of the appeal procedure, although it was not explicitly prescribed in them whether the appeal procedure before the State Commission was an estimable or invaluable object, and through the Public Procurement Act which was in force until 1 January 2012, where the work and decision-making on the costs of the appeal procedure would be calculated according to the estimated value of the procurement, and that the applicable Public Procurement Act does not prescribe the question of the value of the cases in appeal proceedings. It follows that the appraisal or invaluability of the costs of the appeal procedure is laid down in Article 170 of the Public Procurement Act. The following question I ask is, why, if there is a need for a specific determination of the appraisal or invaluability of the case in appeal proceedings before the State Commission, did the applicant not propose amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act? I think I can also answer this question, and the answer is precisely in the remarks of the interested public. Therefore, the estimated value of the purchase and the method of calculating the estimated value of the purchase are defined in Articles 18i 19. Public procurement laws. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The public procurement law stipulates that the calculation of the estimated value of the purchase is based on the total amount excluding value added tax or VAT. When calculating the estimated purchase value, the contracting authority shall take into account the total purchase value which includes all the options and possible renewals of the contract, and paragraph 8 of the same article stipulates that the estimated purchase value must be validly determined at the time when the contracting authority sends the invitation to tender and in the procedures in which the call for competition is not published at the time when the contracting authority starts the procurement procedure. Furthermore, the Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act of 2013 amended Article 169(1), which provides for the obligation of the complainants to pay compensation for the initiation of an appeal procedure in amounts which are also bound to the estimated value of the purchase. And as an example, I will specify only point 5 of Article 169, which obliges the complainant to pay more than 100 thousand kuna for the estimated purchase value of more than 60 million kuna. I ask the question, why does the applicant not assess the excessive, unwarranted and inappropriate fees that the bidders must pay in the state budget when launching an appeal procedure of 100 thousand kuna for the estimated value of the purchase of more than 60 million kuna for the work of state officials in the State Commission on the case at which the complaint has been made, but considers too overexploited and inappropriate costs of lawyers engaged by the tenderers at almost equal amount, which were incurred only for reasons of non-compliance and breach of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act? When potential bidders report to certain competitions, they are required to demonstrate their ability in accordance with Articles 69 to 74. Public procurement and pursuant to Article 9. Regulation on the way in which competitions or tenderers are made and treated, and these evidence is again related to the assessment of the value of the purchase. Therefore, according to all the above, the cases in the procurement procedures are in everything estimable except in case of compensation for legal costs related to the system of appeal. Furthermore, the fact is that for 99.9% of Croatia's customers is in line with Article 24. The public procurement law shall be carried out by the authorising officer of the contracting authority and at least one authorised representative of the contracting authority referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall possess a valid certificate in the field of public procurement. The rules on public procurement education are laid down in the way in which public procurement education is prepared and implemented, as well as the conditions for issuing and renewing public procurement certificates, and the aim of public procurement education is to acquire the knowledge, skills and ability of various stakeholders involved in the public procurement system in order to effectively implement public procurement procedures at all levels. Therefore, all public procurement employees have solid salaries that they receive each month prior to those certificates for the authorised representatives of the contracting authorities and the renewal of the certificates also pay the same contracting authorities or ultimately taxpayers, so it would be logical to conclude that, after all of this, these same contracting entities are able to call for legal and unsettled public competition. It is not true that it is only formal illegalities which would be easily removable that the tenderers have acted in good faith but rather about the illegalities which refer to the setting up of business to certain economic operators, and the question is whether the potential tenderers are obliged to make correspondence with the contracting authority and to warn it of its errors and illegal provisions and requests in the competition documentation or whether the tenderers are obliged to carry out the training of authorised representatives of the contracting authorities in respect of the application of the Public Procurement Act? In addition, when responding to the complaints made, the contracting authorities generally insist on their illegal and in the complaint to the disputed allegations, so that free correspondence mainly ends at the expense of the bidders or the private sector. From everything I've stated, it's the fact that the motion for amending the law deals with the consequences, not the cause of the problem. In the light of the above, it concludes that the statement of complaints at a certain stage of the procurement procedure would not have led to the fact that the contracting authorities are acting in good faith or that public procurement procedures have been carried out in a legitimate manner, and in the end there would be no need to compensate for the costs of the appeal procedure. At its meeting on 19 January 2012, the Government adopted a Regulation on the Control of the Implementation of the Public Procurement Act where Article 2 provides that the Ministry of Economy is to exercise supervision for the purpose of removing or preventing irregularities that may arise or arise as a result of violations of the laws and regulations in the field of public procurement. Article 3 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: Secondly, it is obvious that someone in the Ministry of Economy is not doing their job properly or at least not using the powers conferred on it through the regulations, the provisions of the regulation on the supervision of the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. In conclusion, I would like to point out that such amendments to the Law on the State Commission amnesty, sloppyness and intricacies of public contracting authorities without even mentioning the attempt to set up public competitions from these same contracting entities, which is certainly not on the trail of the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80576	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80577	Well, my colleague Holly, in the first part of your debate, you've revealed to me one new aspect of your political action so far less known, another group of society that you'll be heroine along with these so far, I won't name which, but visiblely, which group you've been promoting, you've defended in the first part of your debate. In this second part of your debate I would agree with your positions but they are not in direct contact with that first part of the law lobby's interests. So these two things aren't directly connected. So in this second part, when it comes to the problem of public procurement and the setting up of competitions, I fully agree with you. And we have witnessed that in a highly corrupt Member State of the European Union we have a lot of problems with public procurement and with public investment. What's deep, what's the problem with this public procurement that's making big money through it and what a lot of people depend on it. Unfortunately, the Croatian economy depends largely on the public procurement, unfortunately. And this public procurement as well as public investment was neither today nor in the future will become the generator of Croatian production. No, unfortunately. But the big money is spinning, of course the big interests are spinning. And unfortunately, most Croatian companies are related to this unfortunate public procurement and to these unfortunate public investments because we do not actually have a competitive, competitive small and medium-sized enterprise that could sell anything to anyone at a competitive market price but is already forced to actually be tied up and rotated in an unhealthy relationship with the state through this public procurement and public investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80578	Replicate response, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80579	Well, I think MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament must advocate compliance with the law. So if something we suggest is contrary to the laws that have already been adopted, then we must respond to it. I believe that in Croatia the same rules of the game must apply equally to it, whether we treat a particular profession with a blocked nose, accusing it of potential corruption or something like that. After all, and the crowd of citizens in the Republic of Croatia has a very bad view of all of us sitting in this House and dealing with politics at other levels of government but I cannot agree that we are all the same. Well, in that sense, they can't agree that all lawyers and lawyers are the same. And I think it's the obligation of the state to regulate the system in a completely transparent way to make the system work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80580	Dear Representative Zlatko Tušak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80581	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues, Holly, I fully agree with you in the part where you talked about the legality of the competition and the contracting authorities and the setting up of the competition because we know from a number of examples that certain provisions of the law are being violated. But when it comes to this Commission Act itself, the State Commission for Public Procurement Control, then it comes from the law itself with its example and the Government of the Republic of Croatia violates the law. Because the law itself says that the commission has nine members and we currently have three members, one deputy and two members. So the question is, where are the other six members? Although there is a obligation in the law itself by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that 60 days before the end of the term of office it must propose a resolution to the Assembly, appointing or re-election of those members or a proposal for new members. Then when we talk about an example of transparency and legality, I am an example of the Government of the Republic of Croatia who does not respect the legal provisions that this Parliament has brought. And it's a humiliating attitude towards parliamentarians and respect for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80582	Thank you, too. We continue with an individual debate of respected fellow MPs. Now it's the Honorable Agent Ivan Shuker's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80583	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So we're talking about a law that tangs the only ones who basically invest in the Republic of Croatia in the last few years, so they're units of local self-government, state bodies and many practically public companies. But when we talk about one law, then we must never skip it because this government has one practice to very often change laws, which we discussed several months ago. So the two key changes that we discussed last time were an increase in that censorship for a public tender from 70 to 200 thousand kuna. And we forgot about that today. As a result, we will see only when the state audit submits a report on the 2014 budget that has been happening all together. But what we've all been hunting about, the ruling coalition has supported it, we're not from the opposition. However, what we all supported was an increase in the number of commission members with one goal that the commission must simply be more efficient, it must work faster and better because if no one already invests in Croatia at least to give it space. There are those who invest in Croatia money from Croatian citizens, these are units of local self-government and state. However, because of party bickering because this country is divided into pashaluka and nobody lets anyone into their pasture, so if one political party has one ministry then there is no staffing of another political party and that is why this commission is not appointed, and we can talk now whatever we want. Now, if at the beginning of that commission we take the main means of work and these are the people who were supposed to carry out these complaints and decide on them, then how can we say that we want to do something right? However, neither then's amendments to the law nor today's offer us a key question, which is whether the most favourable is the lowest price of the main parameter that this is the most favourable offer. Many of the investments carried out by cities, municipalities, counties and the state have proved that the most favourable price is often the worst and most expensive because in principle this contractor is unable to complete the work and then what happens happens is what happens. Very few of us are here to say that there is no unfinished school or anything in our midst. But another question arises, who has the courage to make a decision for some other offer that is not the most favourable. It's just that no one's going to put themselves in a position to be investigated tomorrow and something like that. So we've all accepted that it's just like that and we all know as well as something that I'm going to talk about later, that it's just not a fact. Well, at the end of the day, I'm gonna look back at the highway monetization. We paid a lot of money, we picked the best offer, and we got what we got. Fortunately, the State's Attorney's Office and other professional services have looked at this proposal by some other ministries, and they were appalled because these most favourable, cheapest, offered us a contract that doesn't even respect the laws of the country for which the contract is written, which is Croatia. But what we all agreed on today is that we have professional complainants, how those who want to get the most money, and that is those who immediately complain about the tender documentation, whether there is or no need, and there they complain and get the money, and there are others who complain about the choice. However, if we look at the number of complaints growing then we must also compare it to the economic crisis. As jobs disappeared in Croatia and I say state, local self-government units became the only investors, then the logical thing that every such competition occurs every year is more and more bidders and each of them simply wants to win the competition. If he doesn't get it, he's complaining. And many units of local self-government, many infrastructure projects are a deadlock and a normal thing to end. Is this a bill like this, I don't think it is. So we agreed that it should come to an end. Now that we agree on the tools, which we'll end up with. With this proposal of Article 1 and Article 3, my opinion is that we will certainly not be able to cope because simply by looking at everything that has happened in recent years, we will see that it is not true. And we can't say that a legal tariff is something that here should be a price-setting parameter. If we already want to go to that, then someone needs to set a bedrock for complaints under this procedure. Not a single unit of local self-government that gets money from Croatian Waters, from someone else, can cover the money of a lawyer's cobwebs because the lawyer's cobweb is not small at all. And complaints about the tender documentation, look at them colleagues and colleagues, because if you don't want to look at them, hear from your fellow mayors, mayors, mayors, and you'll see that they are typical, as will be the typical complaints of the removed MUP executives that this government has replaced to place party-like people. Such a similar story cost us 350 million kuna in 2002. Type complaints so-called. You write a complaint and then you just stamp inside the data of the one you're complaining about, but that complaint costs 1,000 or more kunas, so times a few thousand or tens of thousands, that's a lot of money. So you can just see here that there's a type error in the competition and you're just stamping competitions. This article is certainly not to be resolved. However, here in this high home we often argue about whether Croatia is a net winner or a loser of European funds. All this about the Public Procurement Act, everything that's been changed and the application of this Public Procurement Act was supposed to lead us to this tomorrow, actually today when we were supposed to, but unfortunately it's happening today, but I guess tomorrow, when we use EU funds, then these rules of public procurement must be very interesting. And if that is the way to look at neighbouring Slovenians, I can now list some other countries that entered the European Union 10 years ago, how much money they had to pay because they did not conduct a public tender according to the rules on how it should be done. Now there's one question to ask. Are those who finance and pay someone to make him tender documentation cheated or faked if someone does it with a trunk, and then anyone can complain about that file. The same question needs to be asked whether it's a strand of something, because look, it's not about one complaint. It's hundreds of complaints, and my colleague Bubalo was talking about it, and we talked about it at the end of the month when it was proposed to amend this law. So here I have no intention of even protecting a legal lobby, but my intention is to simply release units of local self-government so that I can invest those money they have raised from their citizens and that I can make some infrastructure. Is it possible to do so if, in their competition that is announced immediately, someone is making a complaint and practically he's making a complaint about something, there's no obligation for him to report tomorrow that way. No, he filed a complaint because he noticed there that the decimal is here, not there, and whether this word is here or there, and it's certainly because of the formal reasons that the complaint will be adopted and that he will charge for it from a unit of local self-government that gives an investment of 500, 600 thousand kuna. He has to pay 40, 50,000 kuna before the investment itself begins. So that's something we've all agreed on. But now I am asking you colleagues and colleagues if we are dealing with this problem as defined in Article 1. I don't think so. Somebody offer me an argument against that, I'll support this law. But here, I've been here all morning at the assembly. I've never heard of such an argument. So let me get this straight. It is not disputed that everyone should be allowed to complain, not to do as the Government so badly wanted to do, in fact did with this Act of Execution when the one who complains loses the appeal alone will pay the costs of the appeal. So everyone needs to be able to complain. But if there's a real reason for that, and I also make it impossible for someone to make money on that complaint. And it's crucial in this law. Unfortunately, this law does not offer this, and this Article 3 offers us something that is the practice of this government, which is a retroactive application of certain legal provisions that simply cannot happen. With this we send a negative and bad message to all those who wish to invest in the Republic of Croatia. And any such provision is just one feature that foreign investors and rating agencies record about Croatia being a legally insecure country for investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80584	Thank you too, dear colleague. The esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80585	You're telling your colleague that our Croatia is divided and has pasta. There is, but unfortunately there is countess. And I agree with the fact that many local self-government units are the biggest problem that we have to deal with, and that's what everyone agrees about, I've personally talked about it several times and many here, and so has the current State Attorney General Cvitan that in many local self-government units something like you said there are sheriffs, but what we're going to call them. And there's the biggest source of public procurement corruption. Not all, honor to all who work with honor. There are those, but there are also those who don't do that, who throw an ugly picture at local self-government units. Namely, you speak for yourself, and it is true that we often need to find a real answer there too. We haven't found him, and we need to find him in the Public Procurement Act, that the cheapest is the one to be accepted. And then how else to make it even, when the law says it and then how to choose another. However, we here need to find some fuses and have them so that the cheapest often turns out to be the most expensive. First of all, the additional work needs to be abolished. Let's just say in the city of Zadar, it's a wonder when something is dug up, in the city of Zadar, it's not a question of whether you'll find something to dig up, it's just that you'll find something and then there's always extra work going on. And at the very end of the conjecture, the cheapest turns out to be the most expensive. And most importantly, if we're going to need it, and that's a big change in the Public Procurement Act. You can't go to public procurement if you don't know. The price is an important element, but it's not the most important. It's important, but there are others that are important, and that's the quality of works and deadlines. Not our public procurement especially the local self-government unit goes like a ongoing revolution. You never know when it's gonna start. Even less is known when it will end, and usually only performers know each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80586	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80587	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Ingrid, I'm sorry you didn't listen to what I said. I did not say that Croatia is divided into pasta, but the Croatian government has divided, and I mean public enterprises and ministries. And that ministry and the public enterprise that belongs to one political option has no way of getting inside any of the other political options, and that's why this commission hasn't been appointed. And why did I use the word pasta? For the simple reason that the pasture is impeccable, it can do whatever it wants. Even if he makes a deal with the smoke, that's how it is. Look, I can list some companies that you know exactly under the authority of a particular political party from the ruling coalition as well as certain ministries. Because we find it very interesting to watch the debates here. When the law is from the HNS minister, then this other side is quite passive. Or if she's like this, but it's yours, I'm not getting involved in it. It's your inner thing. But I'm saying why I used the word pashaluca. I thought there was a reason why this nine-member committee was not appointed, which we all in the House supported. If we rarely get to support something, then I don't understand why it hasn't been practically appointed for seven months. So, that's the context I was talking about. I'm glad we agreed on the lowest price that it can't be, unfortunately that sometimes turns out to be the highest price. But also given all the processes that are being conducted in Croatia, I don't think there's a man who's crazy enough to go sign another price. Because even when you respect it, they're investigating people. So, but it's something that's holding us back. Because here's the school in New Chico, the selected performer who pulled it up, smudged it until the money went missing in the budget. If he'd done it in time, that school would have been over in time and today the kids would have gone to that school. And Minister Jovanovic and what little money he had cut down and my children there from Novi Cic unfortunately have to go to Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80588	Thank you very much. A new replica of respected MP Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80589	Comrade Shuker, you said everyone should be allowed to complain. In any case, yes, but also to anyone who complains about their appeal if they do harm, and it does it if it is unfounded and if it is a professional complainant to bear the costs of that damage. And in this case, who has the courage to choose the most favourable offer? Usually you pick the cheapest offer. At this point, no one. This is about witch hunting. It is enough for someone to write a letter, not sign, and to investigate some kind of one you call a local sheriff which is an insult when a local self-government unit is generalized is in the territory of Croatia of 526 units of local self-government in any case a huge number if not all, most do their job fairly. Infringement provisions in Article 20 of the fine of 50 to million kuna I have already spoken of will be punishable for the violation of a legal person of the units of local and regional self-government if they go contrary to the provisions of Article 6 of this Act. And Article 6 of this Law states that if the person who is the job's contracting officer is to put pressure on the State Commission or through means of public communication, he tries to put pressure on his appeal to be adopted. What about the one who complains, and that way puts pressure on both the public and the media? And we have a lot of pressures like that. It's always the cheapest price, I claim responsible because I'm constantly in these public procurement procedures, is always the most expensive price. And it never corresponds to the one who puts together some kind of tender for public procurement and usually it's either the designers or the ones we've arranged for that part of the job to prepare and do the project documentation and then the tender documentation to the bidder. It is always a responsibility, even under this article of the 20th of this law, on the one who is the client, who is the unit of local or regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80590	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80591	Thank you very much. My colleague Klaric, I am still representing the view as it was in voting that everyone has the right to complain. But there's something else, if you pay the designer to build a project for you and if he says that this project is based on his knowledge, and these are movements on the labour market, etc., it should cost so much, then he can't be confused by 20% or 30%. The error could be plus minus 5%. And if that were the case, there wouldn't be so many professional complainants and there wouldn't be so many prices that are so below the project price. But if someone puts a number on you and you get, like, six, seven, ten offers that are 20% lower than that price, then there's someone inconclusive. So these are the public powers that if someone gets in the Republic of Croatia then they must be held accountable by the auditors, through everyone else. And then such laws, which according to their form, are in line with EU legislation and we have nothing to object to, all directives are applicable, but in practice it is a disaster. But every segment in this process must be kept professionally and must bear sanctions if it does not stick to this professional job. Therefore, everyone who worked in the executive office, who did such a job and who conducted the competition not once happened to me that the project value was so much and then... Or if the gentlemen wanted to blow up the value, then all the offers were above the project value, so the practical contest had to be repeated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what he's got. So, we can talk about a million and one case here today, probably any mayor and chief not the local sheriff because I don't think it's just right for those people to call so they got the election and they should be treated like one, and therefore they're responsible, so anyone would really want this kind of paperwork to have, and that whoever's preparing his tender documentation is right to have someone on the spot who can't complain about it and get him 50, 60 thousand kuna before he does his job and he's on his way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80592	Thank you very much. A new replica, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80593	Thank you very much. A fellow Shuker here these days is the result of an affair called HIPCROT in which 300 and more doctors were allegedly paid off by a company that had a 14 million kuna fund. But when we talk about professional complainants and talk about the role of DORH, USKOK, however you like, so it's no problem to get into the work of professional complainants and their actions, it's actually created an anti-investment climate through these very actions of professional complainants where projects are delayed. You said New Chiche, at Slavonski Brod School in... The school in Pokkalje, the school-sports hall in Pokkalje, the underpass on the road you know that road because we talked to you about that road on the 423 state road in Osijek street where people are waiting and losing both their nerves and their money and all the living ones on that road, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, is there any chance that we can sanction these professional complainants, that they're being prosecuted because they've been filing complaints just so they can get this over the bar, that sometimes it's 100 thousand kunas, sometimes 50, sometimes 30, and that they actually live on it, and that those other items are from... Or I don't know what by the way, and they lived off this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So will this country find a way to sanction it? And as for the formation of state authorities and state-owned companies, we must agree on that Turkish feudal model, but we must not forget, as you yourself said, Cadillacs, i.e. smokes that are networked, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80594	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80595	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Grubisic, you basically just listed some cases where you can see how this law can be played. It doesn't make sense, so if someone gives 20, 30% of the price below the one the designer wrote that it should be, and then when that whole story is over, then you have extracurricular work for 20%. That someone had to make a deal with someone. You can if you have a project can happen something unplanned that you couldn't see from the project that should be done, but it's not exactly a fifth of all the works that should be done. So that's one segment from which you can see that someone was playing some kind of game. But the key thing is what I heard from the conversation with not one mayor and the mayor, and that's regretting the paperwork. So, professional regret for the paperwork. So it doesn't even matter what we're all talking about. Why does someone do the wrong point or do something wrong in the documentation if it's practically a front for most projects? Well in Croatia there are hundreds of plumbing, sewerage, some small utility works done by local self-government units, and that's practically splendor. How someone makes that mistake and then one law firm who's got a whiff of complaints sees it, and that's what's wrong with that and that's what happens with another span, and that's the complaint that picks up 50 or 60 thousand kunas to a poor community who can't do it. So, that should settle this law. And that's why I said let's release the bar fees, here if we're already giving power to the commission because at this point there's about 5.6 billion complaints and it's a shame that the Deputy Minister actually didn't give it away. We're going to get that report but maybe we'd argue differently about this law if we had the amount of those complaints at this point and how many of these complaints were there? So look at how many jobs it is at this point in Croatia for these jobs that could be done and not done just because of this kind of crap.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80596	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zlatko Tušak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80597	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Shuker, what I fully agree with you is the question that you asked whether this law, by amending the law, we are solving the problem and that is the essence of this whole story. We always get certain laws that are not a complete solution but we scratch somewhere a little by the surface because there's someone who said there's a problem, and here's the problem of professional complainants and we're all aware of that. But this law and public procurement is much more. And especially when you're talking about European funds that have a very high role in public procurement, and if this area isn't going to be quality-solved, if it's going to open this possibility, we're not talking about whether professional complainants are making some kind of financial gain, but whether they're going to stop certain projects, whether they're going to do some other damage, that's a question that the government should take care of when it offers certain solutions, but not the government is offering a complete solution, but only the scratches on the surface, and then there's an impression, and here's the government doing something, and basically there's not going to be any problems solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80598	Thank you, too. We've exhausted the log-in list. ... Here's your colleagues saying you didn't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for discussion, replication and reply to the replica. That's why we're done discussing the text of the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now we're gonna take a break for lunch. We'll be back at 3 p.m. with an announcement to continue our work on the agenda. Bon appetit. Final draft law amending the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 652. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was filed by a respected representative of Mirela Holly. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80600	The amendment is not accepted No, I don't. [[/The incursion president: No?]] Since the provision of Article 1 provides that the State Commission shall decide on the compensation of the costs of the appeal procedure and other requirements authorised to place the party in appeal proceedings and that the value of the case is not appraisal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80601	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80602	So I warn respected colleagues and colleagues that this article calls into question the provisions of a whole series of other laws, the primary law on public procurement, as well as the Law on the State Commission and the General Administrative Procedure Act. Well, here it is, I appeal not to violate the provisions of the law that we have already passed and to accept this amendment I'm looking for a vote. [[/Intruder president: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80603	Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement on the amendment to the respected representative of Mirala Holly, who has not been accepted by the government. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 6 abstentions are passed by Law P.Z. No. 652 in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80604	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. It is next - Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2013 The Report was submitted by the Commissioner for Information pursuant to Article 60. The law on the right to access information. You've received the motion for an act. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. With us, the motionary is Dr. Anamaria Musa, Commissioner for Information. Do you want an introductory explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80605	Good afternoon, honourable MPs and MPs. In short, I would just like to introduce a possible debate on the submission of a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information. Therefore, the report refers to 2013 which may be considered a transitional year from the old to a new system of protection of the right to access information. That year, so on March 08th, it entered into force a new Law on the right to access information that significantly improved the process of achieving and protecting the right to access and more clearly defined the circle of the bodies that are bonds of the law. The strengthening of the legal framework for institutional assumptions in the area of access to information rights was one of the measures that the Republic of Croatia had to implement in the period from the signing of the Union accession agreement until the entry into membership itself. At the same time, that law established a new independent institution that is solely competent to protect the right to access information, in the sense of implementing a secondary appeal procedure on decisions by public authorities bodies, as well as monitoring and promoting access rights and reuse of information, so the Commissioner for Information. Finally, as the third newspaper, a new EU directive on the reuse of information was adopted by the Croatian legal system for the first time, which basically means that citizens have the right to seek and use data collected by public authorities under their own jurisdiction to create additional social value by re-use. In this respect, the report should be seen in the world of the existence of two legal institutional regimes and the context of the transitional period to which it relates. The overall conclusion of the report is that the general trend of improvement in the exercise of the right to access information, in terms of greater transparency of the work of the public authority body, continues to be more intensive and high-quality in the implementation of public consultation procedures in the adoption of regulations and more regular handling of citizens' requirements. However, given the increased expectations of citizens and technological opportunities in terms of providing information, this trend of positive change is not sufficiently intense and many problems remain and therefore room for improvement. I would highlight four basic areas where problems were observed. The first concerns the proactive publication of information on public authorities' websites, in fact, it should be a fundamental way of providing information to citizens and, in fact, a fundamental channel on which citizens are informed about the work of public authorities' bodies, and thus also the achievement of their own individual civil rights. I note that according to current data, the public authority has about 6 000 and that an instructional list of bodies that should facilitate access to information with a list of all websites is being prepared for citizens and bodies themselves. In view of this proactive publication which, given the capacity, the Commissioner is not yet able to adequately monitor, it has been observed that despite the improvements, many public authorities still do not make available information in an accessible manner in accordance with Article 10. A law that prescribes a whole set of information that needs to be published, as if many bodies do not have at all or do not have adequate websites. There is a particular problem at local self-government level, which is mainly due to the lack of capacity of local units which are not able to either financially or in terms of their personal capacities to comply with that obligation under the law. Similarly, the public hearing is governed by Article 12, as well as by the consultation procedures with the interested public in the adoption of laws and regulations. In relation to public consultations, I would point out that progress has been seen in the implementation of this provision with regard to the number of consultations carried out, but there are still problems with respect to the time of implementation, as many public authorities carry out consultations in short periods of time during which weekends, holidays and vacations are falling and do not comply with the deadline of 30 days. The second area for which I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to point out as very important that in each body of the public authority of the person responsible for the implementation of the Law on Access to Information, information officers are obliged to appoint and inform the Commissioner. Unfortunately, many bodies have not carried out this obligation or have not notified either the Commissioner or the public through their website. In addition, information officers should be adequately trained for the implementation of the law and within their general obligations, labour obligations, it should be ensured that they are able to comply with obligations under the Law on the right to access to information. In particular, it has been observed that many of them do not know the rules, not only the Law on the right to access information but also other regulations, in particular the General Administrative Procedure Act. Finally, the next area that is actually in public is the most visible way of dealing with requests for the right to access information. According to the data collected from the public authorities, 3500 bodies that submitted the report, so out of 6000 we received 3,500 reports, received almost 30,000 requests, which means slightly less than 1000 requests per body. This information should be taken with the reserve, given that I have pointed out the public authorities because of the lack of knowledge on requests for access to information often include other types of requirements that citizens make to them. What can be taken as an implementation indicator is that the maximum number of requests is rejected for the protection of personal data or business secrets. In the second step of the procedure, it is apparent that many public authorities are not based on the law, but what is most visible and is, in fact, the biggest concern is that in relation to 515 complaints received by an independent body in 2/3 of cases it was about the silence of the administration, so simply means the public authorities ignore citizens' demands, simply do not respond at all, let alone to a solution that would be legal or illegal. The independent body also received 128 performances. It has been observed that when an independent body, so before the agency, the commissioner now controls that public authorities generally respect recommendations to improve the situation. It has also been noted that public authorities have received a large number of questions from journalists under the Media Law and in these cases complaints in the event of short information are referred to the commissioner, but he does not have the authority to resolve these cases, while the Media Act does not give an adequate legal instrument to protect journalists' rights to access information. In particular, I would point out that, with regard to the reuse of information that has therefore been introduced into our legal system, we have not received a single complaint through the adoption of the directive, although the public authorities state that they have received 25 000 requests. It is quite amazing that no appeal has been made in relation to 25 000 requests, and this shows that public authorities do not understand what it is and that the public does not actually use the institute properly. This, of course, needs to be done further, and the Commissioner should take on the most important role. Finally, the report contains a number of recommendations from the public authorities to improve the situation which mainly concerns the promotion and publication of information via the Internet, the appropriate training of information officers, in particular with regard to the knowledge of the rules, respect for legal deadlines and the general need to change the problem of the public authority's position according to the right to access to information that I remind one of the basic civil rights established by our Constitution. In this respect, the Commissioner’s institution intends to pay particular attention to the education of information officers and other forms of professional training and public debates, as well as to the education of individual user groups, to draw up guidelines and instructions for the implementation of certain provisions of the law, as well as to develop and apply a methodology for monitoring the implementation of the law, then inspection supervision which has not yet been established and to promote access to information and reuse of information. At the same time, in the second half of 2014, it will be necessary to access the amendments to the law in order to comply with the 2013 amendments to the Directive. I conclude that and I would like to point out that the key is precisely in this preventive action of the Law on the right to access information in terms of maximum promotion of proactive disclosure of information, while requests for access should only be an auxiliary tool. For such a situation, it is determined to educate and promote the right to access to the public and to follow the law properly, which is also highlighted in the measures developed by the European Commission last week. It should be noted that the right to access information is one of the key areas of the implementation of the Open Partnership Initiative... with which the Republic of Croatia has also joined and is actively implementing these anti-corruption strategies in the previous period, as well as those currently being developed. However, in conclusion, for all these activities already developed in our strategic plan, it is necessary to strengthen the capacity of the Commissioner's offices, which are currently only 4 officials and which indicates that the capacities below the lowest level are satisfactory. It should also be noted that in the past 6 months since there has been a large part of the capacity, it has been aimed at establishing a new institution, which is all together and since it has been delayed in the second-degree procedure due to insufficient capacity, thus making the situation worse. I would like to point out that in the first 5 months 770 items have been received, while a total of 853 cases have been received in the past year, so we already have a significant increase and in fact we are looking for a larger engagement of institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80606	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We have two replicas. Sunhead, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Commissioner, what you said in this review, I'm just going to refer to a few things. First of all, I find it inadmissible that at this time Croatia does not own a body base of public authority. It will be available only in July, according to what it says on your official website. I think you could at least use the body base of the public authority that she previously owned and the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, so I don't see why she couldn't at least leave that base. So at this point in Croatia, we don't really know who the public authorities are if it's to judge by what you said. In addition, I believe it is inadmissible, and you have looked back on it yourself, and we have also talked about it when the Law on the right to access information that only the introduction of Commissioners will not change anything in law enforcement because you yourself say that 50% of the public authorities ignore you for thinking that it is absolutely inadmissible and that no body of the public authority should allow itself to ignore the provisions of the law in such a harsh way. As for swearing to an open power partnership, I would say that this is your partnership for closed power, and above all with the Government of the Republic of Croatia which has provided you with just enough funds to pay for electricity and water. Well, of course I'm asking you if you'll be able to tell us if the situation has changed, if you have the means to enforce the law at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80608	Thank you, too. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80609	Thank you. Let's hear it. [[/Intruder Batinić: I ask you to stand up. It's a practice to get up. Thank you.]] Thank you. So, as far as the base of the body of the public authority is concerned, we have one undeveloped base of earlier use, but we haven't published it publicly because it's not arranged. That's exactly what you're doing right now. So he intends to finish the base by the end of June. So that's the plan since it's a big deal, so we'll have it done and published for public use. So in this present form, in which it is unconstitutionally made. She's actually useless, she can do more damage than good. As for ignoring the commissioners, I stressed that public authorities are ignoring citizens' demands in two-thirds of the cases. That's what matters. And as for the Commissioner's solutions themselves, they are quite respected that I think it also points to the fact that only 29 cases were brought last year to the Administrative Court, and of those 29, two-thirds were filed by citizens who were dissatisfied with our decisions, not by the public authorities themselves. As far as the open power partnership is concerned, this is an initiative to which the Government has joined and within the framework of this initiative is also the right to access information. I agree that not enough of this activity has not been realised, but I hope that in this new action plan and since for the first time we have an institution that deals only with this law will pay sufficient attention. As far as the funds are concerned, we in the budget rebalanced at the end of March received an additional 400,000 kunas which are intended for the employment of additional officials, five officials we intended to take over from other public authorities, or four. That way, one from the outside means a public competition. However, we still cannot use these funds because the government has not adopted a regulation that would allow us to work in the Commissioner's office. So here's what we're expecting is that it's going to happen so we can stick to it. But actually realistically, given the holidays of summer, vacations and the fact that it wouldn't taste good to say so on August 1st, I think only employees will be able to work from September 1st if everything is as planned. Since, as the public authorities have said, public debates should not be held in the midst of annual holidays, it would not be right for us to be employed at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80610	Thank you. Next replica, Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80611	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's to my colleague, actually, it was a similar question, so I'm going to ask him a different question. You said in your statement that citizens always have the right to claim information. However, this is not true, because public authorities may actually restrict access to information if the information is a business or professional secret, if the information is a tax secret, if it is in the process of making it within the public authority but also if the information is classified by the degree of secrecy in accordance with the law governing the confidentiality of such data. We had a case yesterday when Prime Minister Milanovic, however, falsely gave a statement bound to it as an official secret. But here's the lesson for my colleague, and it made me feel alive, and I tried surfing the Internet today. In this delivery of annual reports from the public authority authority in which you say that the report on the implementation of the Data Delivery Act has been submitted by 3462 public authorities. It's a huge database at least you can have it as such. I don't really know how many bodies there are of the public authority that could compromise this relationship that you're actually citing here in the process. You said one more thing that I was thinking about afterwards that these bodies of public authorities received about 100 questions about data on the right to access information. Now, if it's legal time that you have to answer within 15 days, I think this case that you've brought out is very large, given that I know some cases where public authorities get 800, 900 questions a year. Now, if within 15 days they have to answer the question is now where the law is, can he be respected in view of what you said because he's actually anti-constitutional. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80612	Thank you. Will you answer it?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80613	Therefore, as regards the number of requests received by the authorities, I agree that there are bodies which are heavily burdened with access to information. However, it should be borne in mind that a large part of these requirements relate to information that should be made available to the public via the Internet anyway. So the bodies themselves solve these demands in that way. I pointed out that officials are often not qualified or do this job only along the way with their regular jobs. That's the problem, especially for those bodies where there's a lot of demands. We, too, have already made recommendations to individual bodies identified as those who have such a problem, or have recommended that they systematically systematise jobs in order for officials to be able to do the job. As regards the general number of requests, I pointed out that public authorities are under requests for access to information instructions and some other queries and, in fact, the requirements that citizens make for issuing, say, diplomas or such things that are not access to information because access to information is about public information rather than personal matters which are the subject of procedures in public authorities bodies. Here, I hope I've answered enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80614	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. We're starting a club debate. On behalf of HNS Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80615	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Commissioner, colleagues and colleagues. Here's an opportunity for this report to actually create a retrospect of the development of the Institute's right to access information that is relatively new in the Republic of Croatia. But it's not just that he's relatively new because he has about a decade of history but that he's going through several different phases, a painful phase that shows a long-standing misunderstanding of the importance of this institute. And then a repressively used approach by the government that has been preventing its real development for years, and practically only last year, by passing a new law, we have achieved what has been constantly sought and this is the establishment of an independent body. Now here we have the opportunity to feel the first report of such a type submitted by a Commissioner who is methodologically different from those reports that we have had in recent years to discuss. And it's encouraging a whole series of information we're getting from these reports. The general trend and the Commissioner herself who, in fact, should be the most critical when it comes to this subject is positive. So, according to her assessment, the important move is happening. What every government, but not only the Government, but also all public authorities, are obliged to pay attention to are recommendations, summary at the end of all reports of such a type that carry concrete recommendations on which the situation could be permanently improved and improved so that citizens can uninterruptedly consume their right to access public information. However, there are several other important things that should be highlighted. For example, in this general change of trend, it is necessary to commend the authorities of the state administration because it is not long that the system has actually been at war with the authorities of the state, including many of those who have not sent the reports prescribed by law. The current statistics say that all state authorities provided reports neatly, slightly weaker enforcement and legal obligation is in the county, towns, municipalities, courts, schools, chambers around somewhere less than 60% and the weakest in state-owned companies there is a response to the legal obligation to report or deliver reports somewhere around 41%. So, the space for progress is huge still. But definitely the main problem lies whether those who are holders of the legal obligation to provide information to those who seek and have the right to do so, do they at all understand what it is to access public information, which is the difference between the information that must be provided to citizens and those who have nothing to do with this law or with this right but fall within the scope of other regulations and other rights of citizens. And on the third hand, whether they understand how important it is to strengthen their capacity to react and meet the legal obligation. If we go from the most banal things we still have some units of local self-government that don't have their own websites. Therefore, they do not have an elemental medium through which, as the Commissioner says in advance, they would pro-actively act by publishing information making it available to all those who have the right to consume that right. Definitely what some units of local self-government do, which is to publish their documents and decisions through official texts, but rarely not their own, let's say County, and we know that these texts are available to the most possible circle of users. So, first of all, it's about official addresses, members of representative bodies, that information to citizens practically can't come. And hence the pressure, hence the need for citizens to address bodies directly by correspondence, demanding the information they need. There would therefore be no such thing as a constant practice of the regular publication of public information in the media available to all. And the Internet and websites are definitely the cheapest media like that. In the future, I hope that the independent body, Commissioner, will strengthen its office's capacities to the extent that it will be able to meet and need education. So that it will not only be capacitated for inspection control, which is now missing, but also for providing one professional service to all those who do not understand or simply do not know what their tasks are in this system. The recommendations made by the Commissioner in addition to this report are important, valuable and should be kept in mind. The fact is that all units of local self-government, including regional self-government, and often some ministries are prone to brief consultations with the interested public, and that only creates unnecessary tensions between the interested public and the proponents of a certain act and creates misunderstandings, and then the revolt of those who would like to take part in this consultation. In the long run, it would be easier for everyone to avoid such practice. Furthermore, those units, i.e. those bodies with public powers that have not yet appointed officials, should be made a special catalogue on which to list which ones they are, which bodies are and design a certain tactics in dealing with them. The fact is, there are some units of local self-government, for example, that have blocked accounts, they are unable to finance the basic needs of their own fiscal capacity that are unable to cover their own obligations. In this light, it is likely that a delay in the development of this institute should be seen. But we also know, unfortunately, that there is a negative practice in which there is no official in charge of this issue is actually an alibi that does nothing, or that information is not given to the public concerned, or to citizens who have the right to do so. The silence of the administration as a problem underlining is something that unfortunately exists in all bureaucracy, but the success of the state is measured among other ways that the state itself opposes this natural need for bureaucracy to silence, slow down, cloud or delay. And that means he's deaf to the needs of the citizens. There is almost no political party in the Republic of Croatia that has not been declared in the past ten years, has not declared the need to develop public administration as a service of citizens. No citizen service as long as there is deafening of the system. So it's the first and most basic stairs that can't be passed so easily without having a deep discussion about reforming the public and local systems, so including local administration. We also pleaded when financial documents for 2014 were made available to the commissioners to provide sufficient funds to start working on inspection surveillance. We know that inspection as one repressive form or surveillance is a worse solution than prevention, but if you don't have the means to prevent or monitor such a type, then in such circumstances it's extremely difficult to work. That is why, from this point on, the HNS club calls on the government to, in planning and proposing financial documents for the coming periods, bear in mind the important need of this independent institute to actually strengthen its capacity through inspection supervision, but also to help those who do not meet their legal obligations at this time of ignorance. Not only in this case, but in many other cases, the paradigm of inspection work needs to be completely changed. We today had an inspection which was the primary task of punishing the infringements of the regulations and should actually be much different. The first step must always be to point out the identified problem, an indication of how to solve the problem. The second step is a possible warning and punishment with a milder variant, and only a third must be a repression that goes to the point of seriously punishing, closing or abolishing. And that is why it would be important for us to study in our legislation all the regulations that treat the matter of the work of inspections even though this may be one of the mildest possible. In any case, the Croatian People's Party club welcomes and accepts this report, and we want to strengthen your capacity and even more successful work in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80616	Thank you, too. We have one replica. Sunhead, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Beus, in most of what you said, I agree with you because that's actually what the Commissioner put out here as a problem. And I'm going back to that one again, which is that the work of the commissioners is not provided with adequate resources. You're saying that perhaps, according to the public authorities, the Commissioner must find a tactics so that, you said, that the bodies of the public authorities would still provide her with the requested reports. You can have any tactics you want if you don't have 11 players on the ground that will make that tactics real, you can think of wonders, tactically, but you don't have easy means to work. And at first, the means to work are therefore financial in this case. In addition, we also pointed out when we passed the law that no means were provided for the education of information officers. Which, I believe, you'll agree, because that's exactly what you've apostrophysed, it's not those people's fault that they don't know something, but they're not educated, they're not educated because the name's been prescribed by the law that they have to do something, but it's not how they're going to learn it because there's no money for it. And finally, I'm just going to briefly underline something that's connected to the media that's actually here to question the work of the public authority that we don't have a list of at all, so we don't know if this is relevant, so we're commending them that there's a little more than 20% now that they've improved and filed their reports, so we need to consider amending Article 6. Media law governing the availability of public information. This is not well defined in the Media Act, and the Commissioner is unfortunately unable to help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80618	Thank you, too. Answer, colleague Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80619	When you put me in a situation where I have to comment on the relationship between the state and the local government, I'm like a liberal in a big problem. In fact, I would like to shorten each other's powers as much as possible because I would like both the local and national states to get as little involved in the lives of citizens as possible, but that does not exclude their obligation to service their needs. Even more so, the more they make their data visible, the less involved it will be in the lives of their own citizens because by deafness, silence, ignoring or violating their rights, the state is no matter what level we talk directly about in their lives and makes it more complicated than it should be. But we need to look the truth in the eye and see what it was like 10 years ago, 8, 6, 4, 2, and how it is today. So we can be satisfied that this trend is really taking place in a positive direction and that things are moving well. And another thing, when you talk about some people knowing, some people don't know, as soon as there's a clear rule, and some people don't know, and others don't know, those who don't know bear responsibility because they didn't want to know, that we understand each other. Because if they were all equal rules and if the vast majority of units of local and regional self-government have done everything necessary to appoint, appoint, appoint, empower and educate, and others haven't, listen, I'm sure every county will help its municipalities and cities that need such a type, if they turn to them. Because the county has no municipalities and cities, the smart county will hold its cities and municipalities together, quality, smart, responsible for their own tasks because it will mean that they... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80620	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Grubisic, Cain. They're gone. They're losing their right to debate. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, Mile Horvat. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80621	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ma'am, I welcome the Commissioner for Information, Mrs. Musa. I won't be long because I'm afraid I'll repeat myself in those important things my predecessor said, but I need to say a few things on behalf of the club. So first of all, to commend myself on this report because I think it's done very well, I can even say that it's quite educational, that whoever first encounters this problem, if it reads it correctly, can learn a lot about this institute about the right to access information as a fundamental human right. I therefore congratulate the Commissioners on this well-assembled report and essentially and nomotechnically. I also think that with this debate, we should first of all encourage people's awareness that they should have the right to use this very important institute, i.e. the right to information, so that they have now, that there is a well-developed mechanism in the country with which this right to information can be consumed. And of course, I'm going to say a few things in terms of some, not criticism, but perceived shortcomings, but, of course, for the purpose of improving this thing and to conclude in the end that the state has only declared itself to be developing this institution's right to information, and that most of it lacks concrete action to get its full effect. Because the Law on the right to access information whose purpose is to ensure and encourage the development of a transparent society, such as the first assumption, therefore serves as an effective means of achieving the principle of the rule of law and the openness of public authorities, and thus as a key instrument to combat corruption. It should be some sort of basic... of this Act of Access, right to access information. We also analyzed in this House a year ago the annual report on the implementation of the Law on Access to Information Act, but the report was in another context, or the whole job was in another context, a different mechanism, then we had the Agency for, which followed, the Information Access Rights Agency, or we had another legal framework. What I mean is, so in 2012, we also said there are three basic things that need to be corrected, which is that the agency is according to the agency at the time, and in its report she said that there are procedural problems in the work, so the public authorities were not cooperative in delivering files and complaints to the agency itself. That was the first and most basic flaw. The second flaw that was then seen is that in the implementation of the law there is difficulty in working with the ministries and due to failure to comply with concrete solutions from the agency. So here it is said of a very bad one, so one very bad tendency that the state authorities, the executive authorities that should be dealing with law enforcement, this thing did not work properly and the third observed thing that was problematic, which was alarming is a very high degree of silence of the administration that then appeared to be a major problem. So that's three things, and now that we compare this 2013 report, it's time to see how much we've had in a year and with a new legal framework and a new institute, that is, to the new institution, the Commissioner for Information, how far we've strayed from improving and removing these shortcomings. Here it is also said in yours, you yourself have said very correctly in your report that it is the obligation of the public authorities to carry out public consultations in the procedures of draft laws, regulations and other acts but it has been found that public authorities do not, in most cases, adopt annual plans for their normative activities or consultation plans, or supplement them during the year etc., etc. So the authorities also miss to publish accepted and unaccepted comments and suggestions on the web pages or miss in an appropriate way to preserve and make available archive material that is collected. This again speaks of how a system that we don't expect to behave like this is flat-rate, and the story is optional to understand these legal obligations and it destroys the quality of the law's implementation. You also said that the legal obligations of the public authorities and the appointment of information officers were also prescribed. A part of these public authorities has not yet appointed information officers or has not notified the public via the Internet, thus making it difficult for citizens to have a elemental right, which is the right to have that type of information available. So these are some of the things that we have left for the future to work on because if these shortcomings are not resolved, if the administration continues to be administration, the central administration has been acting in atrocity over these legal obligations, then the question of the very essence of the implementation of the Information Law is raised. We see that here you said that according to the instructive list of the public authority created by the Commissioner, so you, for the purpose of drawing up this report, the number of law enforcement officers in 2013 was 5,918 but this legal obligation fulfilled only 21% and I apologize, i.e. 3,462 bodies which increased 21% compared to 2012. This increase is good, however, the question arises as to why it is not an execution in a 100% amount because it would be to expect from one serious executive authority, so that it seriously implements those legal provisions it itself adopts. What is well noted is that the authorities of the state administration have fully fulfilled the legal obligation to deliver reports. So they did it 100% of the ministries, which is very good, state administrations, so state offices, the Office of State Administration in Countys, etc. The public scientific institutions, the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic, the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court, the CNB etc. have also done so well. Four defense institutions. All of them in some way, as you said in the report here within the legal time limit, fulfilled their obligation to submit the report, and therefore probably made that kind of information available to the public that interests them. So here we see that in a year there was a very good shift in the behaviour of these executive authorities according to the 2012 report. We have seen three key problems in law enforcement in 2013, and that is the general capacity of law enforcement officers because you yourself have said here that public authorities have not appointed information officers, that certain officials are doing this work with some other work. It is therefore logical to conclude that they are then overloaded in carrying out their duties. We also see here you have admitted that often information officers are not sufficiently trained in the use of information, and they are also not sufficiently educated when it comes to the conduct of a general administrative procedure, the elements of basic administrative action, which of course is not good. You have also found that some information officials, public officials in the body, are not working well with the media and other houses, which, of course, is not good and should be removed urgently so that all of this together that we are talking about makes sense. There's already been a speech here, but I'm going to remind you so also the other big problem that we've seen is the silence of the administration. It's the one who's been doing it professionally knows what the silence of the administration means. We know that this can be very dangerous and to the detriment of the parties because it is generally believed that if the administration has not responded it is considered that a certain request has been accepted. This has always been bad for the effect, so bad for the party. We also see that GONG has also made one observation about incorrect interpretation of categories of business secrets and incorrect treatment in interpreting categories of business secrets which should also be done so much in terms of education and ways of defining business secrets as categories of secret information. And finally, all the predecessors said so, and we too point out insufficient funds or at least questionable means to enforce this law. Why am I saying that? We were like a club when we talked about budget rebalancing this year we referred the amendment where we asked to be in section 228. The Commissioner for Information, Protection and Promotion of the right to access information increases the planned funds from a million 352 thousand to an amount of 4.5 million kuna. So it was kind of our amendment because we then felt that without these additional funds, the Commissioner's Office couldn't have done it without a total of 6.5 million kunas as far as we calculated to enable 15 professionals in your office to do this job in quality. We've been doing some kind of same-cost comparative, Commissioner's office in Slovenia and in neighbouring Serbia. So we've concluded that the minimum funding is needed for the work of that office somewhere around 6.5 million kuna. Our amendment asked for it, unfortunately, the amendment was not accepted. And so it would be only that if the government were to seriously implement this Law on the right to access information then it would be necessary to provide the essential conditions, the material conditions for work. So, at least this amendment of ours should have been accepted and you should have been given the 6.5 million kuna, i.e. 4.5 million kuna of funds for your office's work. We hope that in the next budget for next year there will be enough hearing and that suggestions will be accepted when it comes to the formation of a mass of money in the budget so that this office of yours can fulfil the task that we have given here with the legal text. Therefore, we commend this report of yours and support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80622	Thank you. On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80623	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Commissioner, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to do as soon as possible for the same reasons as my colleague Horvat, which is not to repeat ourselves but to try to provide some new information on this report. First of all, I would like to commend a report that is comprehensive, very detailed and instructive and certainly much we can learn. One small remark only related to the treatment of an independent body, i.e. already already the institution of the Commissioner. I don't think it should be as it is said here that an independent body was invited to the show, to the radio, to the television, to the media, and the independent body responded, so the independent body spoke. I think it's good to say Commissioner, or an office employee or something. Here's the one little remark that concerns, of course, the treatment of this institution that we still have to strengthen ourselves. So the further democratisation of society will certainly be seen through serious understanding, understanding and support of this institution, so above all, the Commissioner for Information, and it will certainly be looked at once again when we vote on the budget. I remind you that we have made an amendment to the budget, that we have requested and requested, and we have proposed to the Government to provide additional funds. And it is necessary to do so because this institution that started working well, which we have here since 2013 really has full and real meaning. Because that is one important, one important tool in the fight against corruption. That's for sure. But I think that in a very different way, the media must understand and accept and treat the Commissioner or the institution of the Commissioner and the Office of the Commissioner for Information. Since even at the beginning of the report it is clearly said that the Personal Data Protection Agency is in fact losing some of its competence by setting up this institution. I would like to remind you, and this is important not because of the return to the past but because of the unification of all kinds of practice in the Republic of Croatia, I would like to remind you of the fact that several years ago when the Register was created and when we then asked the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data on the basis of the demands of many who asked for the publication of the register. D So we asked the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data if it would be possible and in accordance with Croatian rules of publication of the Croatian Defence Register. At that time, the instruction was very clear and precise that the register was, for example, being a register. shall not be published because it includes personal data for which each participant of that register, or anyone on the list, would have to give a personal authorisation. However, later, here's the practice changed, the laws remained the same. But the treatment of the agency related to the protection of personal data has changed. It's very important, it's not negligible because personal data are personal data, they don't change. It's a name, a last name, a year of birth, a father's name and so on. How it is possible to publish once that the interpretation is that they can be published and a few years before they can't be published. But it is also a single reflection on the practice that will certainly be repeated in the work of your office, Commissioner. I think it's great that this report makes recommendations. Recommendations to improve the situation. So it's actually unimaginable that all the authorities don't have websites today, that all the authorities didn't appoint an officer to do the job. It is unimaginable, of course, that in a Member State of the European Union, these officials are where they are also appointed in most cases overloaded, that they have difficulties in functioning, that is, in cooperation with the speakers, they are likely to refer, inter alia, to ministries, leaders, public authorities, etc. If that is the case and where it is that these information officers, of course, cannot do their job well. But it fascinates this information in this report that all public authorities don't even have a website. Well, I think that's really a piece of information that we'd have to seriously imagine and get answers about why it's so and how it's possible. As for the recommendations, of course it should be taken into account in particular the finding that information officers are not sufficiently educated. Now we're going back to the budget and all the jobs that have to be done by the Information Commissioner's Office. Of course, no education or any job can be done without money. The review of the requests submitted, i.e. the handling of the applications, is impressive. Of course, this information should also be remembered that 1.70% were rejected during this reporting period. So we could say that we can be satisfied, but of course you can always see things in a positive and negative context. What was particularly interesting to me in this report are examples and I think Madam Commissioners that this is particularly good and that you should continue with this trail in the following reports. For example, this is the very end, clear examples, real examples of real life that talk about how this office is even structured in Croatian space, but also from the media to the citizens, and then they certainly experience what is called the right to access information, so legal or constitutional law. I therefore warn you of several examples listed in the report, let's say information that represents a business secret related to HZ-passport where an independent body in the secondary procedure has found that the requested information cannot represent a business secret. But there's something quite interesting about the work of the Prime Minister. So the journalist of one internet portal referred to the government a number of issues concerning the possible meeting of Prime Minister Milanovic with Publisher Pavic in the restaurant Tac in September 2013 and the second stage procedure found that the user had requested information not considered information in terms of the Law on Access to Information, but in a journalistic inquiry and a request for explanations and explanations under the Media Act. And then, of course, an independent body found that it was not competent to oversee the provisions of the Media Act. So these are examples that are very instructive and very instructive. There is another connection to the Municipality of Gradišče for the allocation of funds for natural disasters from 2010 where the municipality also interpreted that it was protected data, that it could not be published, however, the independent body concluded otherwise. There's plenty more, I won't count them anymore. I think that these examples are very instructive, so that all bodies of the public authorities, their officials should take a good look at them so that they do not make mistakes in the future and thus allow this institution that presents its report to us today to have as little to do as possible. Well, I said I wouldn't be long, so that's what I'm holding on to. So very correct, very well-conceived, concise, core and detailed report that we will certainly accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80624	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Sunčana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80625	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Commissioner, colleagues and colleagues. The report points to a few facts my predecessors spoke of, but I think they need to be re-absorbed. First of all, these are new moves by the public authorities that find different ways to get through, and so it's evident in this report, which is so-called. the silence of the authority of the public authority which is undermining in its report and the Commissioner, and in accordance with this greater behaviour by the Commissioner in appeal. The warning we gave when the law was changed proved true, and it is insufficient to provide the Commissioner with financial resources, although I must remind myself, Prime Minister Milanovic himself swore that the funds would be secured by budget rebalance, and at this point they are sufficient, according to the Commissioner himself, to pay for electricity and water. So we rightly ask ourselves, what we most often say when we talk about the right to access information, that's how we actually fight all forms of corruption when they don't actually let you work. So Prime Minister Milanovic said at the cabinet's meeting when the budget was rebalanced that the rebalancing, I quote, is primarily a political decision, and then we rightly wonder if this is some message for the implementation of the law to the commissioner because politics has decided that it will not give her enough money so that she can enforce the law in her office. In this way, in fact, the full, quality work of the office has been disabled, and instead of the right to access information has become more accessible, we now see that we are actually back to square one. Either the public authorities don't understand again what they should do or on the other hand we say citizens still don't know what they're supposed to do. So we didn't essentially change anything when we got the Commissioner for Information because what the government put on paper doesn't mean it's actually real and implemented. We stayed only at the declarative level of what we wanted, we pointed to practice, and there were some fellow countries in the environment. And I will agree that, for example, the Commissioner in Slovenia works much better not because he may work longer, but because he is allowed to work. Moreover, at this point in the Republic of Croatia, therefore there is no body base of public authority, so we don't even know who we'd call here now who delivered the report and who didn't submit the report, so I'm just going to refer myself to the methodology of the report. I would be so pleased to see, for example, that we could see precisely without comparing your report to the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. But there we saw, for example, that in 2011 and 2012, the Croatian Red Cross and the Cities of the Red Cross did not actually provide a single piece of information, i.e. they completely disobeyed the AZOP's enquiries at the time. That could have happened to the Commissioner, so I don't know if it's about, for example, these societies that make us a different situation. Because the new methodology of the report doesn't really see it. It may not be bad to mention the Croatian Red Cross, because we know in the context of the latest events there is that just through the Croatian Red Cross and the huge funds have been transferred etc. Of course, not thinking about it and not pointing to any possible irregularities. In addition, the Commissioner says what we see is actually not an inspection. Some colleagues have looked back on that. So without inspection supervision, it will be difficult to implement the law in full, and a law that is not implemented or not allowed to be implemented is actually unconstitutional. When we talk about what the public authorities are doing in the process of ignoring the Commissioner, I think of it because it has so stressed that only 50% of them have provided the names of people who are actually information officers. Therefore, whether the public authority can finally deliver the names and last names of the information officer to the Commissioner. I don't think it's a particular effort for them, and I don't see any reason why it's not being carried out. In the introduction of its presentation, the Commissioner stresses when the law came into force, and I will only remind myself that the Commissioner in July was to begin the work, or appointed, or 25 October, appointed Commissioner for Information, and then actually began to assume that the work of the institution and the termination of the competence of the Personal Data Protection Agency began. According to the proposed report, the number of law enforcement officers in 2013 was slightly over 5,000, and this legal obligation was met by 3462 public authorities. With this number, we should never be satisfied. So it's 50% regardless of what it says is a 21-percent increase compared to 2012 from 30% to 2011. But I don't think we should be so happy about that. It should be pointed out in particular that law enforcement has shown that from the legal definition that public authorities and legal persons whose programmes or whose actions are established as public interest are fully or partly financed from the state budget or budget of local units are far greater than that number, including numerous associations. However, the report finds that a major shift has been made in relation to the delivery of the report in 2012 because the authorities of the state administration have nevertheless moved slightly from place. Maybe one of the reasons was the method of methodology, so we had exactly the ministries taxed that didn't supply the data. We knew exactly who you could call, and I think it's such a tool for you to think about using this way of reporting methodology. However, according to the statistics in the report, it is a worrying fact and I will mention it again so-called. the public authorities' silences and the independent body, as the Commissioner's report stressed, acted on 139 complaints imposed on public authorities to resolve the request for access to information within 15 days. In 2013, we return to inspection no conditions were provided for the establishment of an inspection in an independent body, and it was not carried out during the reporting period, which means that the Commissioner could not carry out what was written by her own regulation. Now with our guilt, not our own guilt, we've already said something. It is necessary, therefore, to strengthen the capacity of the Information Commissioner's Office, to provide adequate budgetary resources as soon as possible to create material and technical conditions for work and to hire officials to work on secondary procedures, to carry out inspection checks, to monitor the application of the law, and to ensure that we can thus provide activities to promote the right to access information and re-use of information. So, as we tried for years to get citizens information on what they could actually get and what answers to ask through the Law on the right to access information last year, of course a newspaper was introduced. And I don't think the citizens are really informed about what's changed. We also propose to enable it to carry out administrative and technical activities within the office because it has ceased the purpose of the existing arrangement, since it has made it possible to carry out continuous business in the establishment of a new institution, and all to ensure, in addition to the above mentioned financial self-sufficiency, the organisational autonomy of the body, and efficiency in the work as well as to prevent unnecessary burdens on other bodies. So all that the Croatian Democratic Community has warned earlier and said that the appointment of Commissioners is not crucial to effective and good work The Commissioner for Information alone cannot change anything. I think she kind of apostrophe in her Commissioner's report. So until the budget is granted, I really don't know what's going on with these 400 and some thousand kunas why this regulation isn't passed because the Commissioner herself says the funds are formally secured, but she can't consume them because there's some paper missing in the government. I wonder if you can finally get rid of it? Until then, only the office will function as a secondary body and all remaining work remains questionable. So it is justified that her statement, which we have already heard, is that the law that is not being implemented, is not constitutional. Once again, I will warn you in the context of the Media Act, we should consider or call on the competent ministry to amend Article 6. A media law that regulates the availability of public information to allow journalists' right to receive answers from public authorities. There's something in that context and it's said, an inquiry by a journalist who was according to the Prime Minister's office. And I also think that a good example of this is that we know what this is about, but that's how the Commissioner does all these jobs when we haven't given her conditions. That's why it's said in the media the other day that this is a very unusual form of fighting corruption when you want to fight something and not give you a way to fight it. So that's how our Assembly Committee on the Constitution asked the government to secure the money. We also call once again from this pay phone to the government to secure the money so that the Commissioner and her associates can work systematically. Of course, we would like the Commissioner to be more public, not only with a website that we expect to be complemented and useful because there is not much information on it so far that can serve us in everyday use or seeking answers to our questions. I suppose that's also the reason for the lack of personnel, or resources. So we keep going round and round and round. At this point, the Commissioner has four employees in her office and, of course, she's under-opted for what we've imposed on her that she has to work in accordance with the law. In any case, the report as it is under the circumstances, I think that we at the HDZ Club can support it with all these remarks that we have made, and with another call from the Government not only to be declarative of law enforcement but to find the means for the Commissioner to work because it is inadmissible to swear to fight corruption, that is to say, the Government, and on the other hand, does everything to make it impossible for every citizen to obtain the information he seeks. I think it's our job to all of us sitting here talking on behalf of those same citizens. And I'm going to quote something for the end, so the Croatian Research Journalists' Assembly is going to have an interesting press conference tomorrow, where journalists from national media participated, and they titled it – Who is the worst according to the national media on the openness of the top of the executive government. They said the worst ones with the most political, financial and repressive powers. And we have to do everything to get answers to our questions right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80626	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80627	Dear colleagues Glavak here is to get an answer to the question about the units of local self-government that you mentioned through this report today that certain bodies of public authorities, especially smaller units of local self-government and legal persons at local level, have had difficulties in meeting the obligations as you have said, and this is what this report says, and it is because they do not have a website due to lack of financial resources that I do not continue to read. I think 98.9% of local administration and self-government units have their own website. It may be more of an impression, Commissioner, but we don't know, and it doesn't say in this report what the number is. If you look at certain surveys over the past year then you can see that 57.4% of Croatians can use the Internet, or 53.1% of e-mail. It is logical that a large number of units of local administration and self-government publish it on their advertising boards. Therefore, because of credibility and because of the citizens themselves, I think it is also necessary to say the truth that units of local self-government are working hard for access to the right of information, but because of here and objective circumstances, it is not possible, so it is done through the advertising board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80628	Thank you. Answer, colleague Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80629	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although I don't know whether the advertising board is the best example for it now, if it doesn't go differently then we can accept it if it really is some small units of local self-government, but for this information you are right in any case. But I don't think it's just a solution to have a website because someone has to fill it. You must have a capable person who will put too much information on that website because we are going back to the beginning, and that is what you are apostropheing in your report, so the information officers are not sufficiently educated. So people just don't know what to ask of them. I will allow, of course, that there are cases that some people like to act crazy, and then the body of the public government is sometimes asked by quotes whether I owe it to them and they can very elegantly and the law allows it to actually walk and reject information. The mayors and the mayors know that. So there's a whole series of schemes that happen in that circle. In any case, how much more up-to-date and data would be available there in the right way, and now it is questionable who is able to shape them, I think that there would also be much less need to seek the right through the Law on the right to access information. And that it is important for us to educate officers who will be able to put quality information on the website and, of course, an officer who will know how to answer what the citizen asks him, not that the citizen actually educates the official he wanted from him.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80630	Thank you. On behalf of SDP representative Josip Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80631	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen, the understanding by which Parliament is the law-making machine is wrong. We're not here to pass a law on Fridays. We are also obliged to take care of how those laws we adopted live in reality. A great help in this is the fact that in some laws, there are obligations in some areas, the establishment of a certain body that will take care of law enforcement. Otherwise, they are addressed to addressees and addressees are obliged to respect them without special assurance, training and such. But here we are not alone, we have an institution that submits a report to us, and in fact by which we gain insight into what is actually happening, analytically prepared, supplied data, a report that cannot be ignored. Now let's see what the report tells us and separate the most important or important from what's been noticed but not the priority. First of all, the question of support. I will agree with predecessors, political support to an institution or some law is not expressed in words, but is expressed in means and the number of people to whom this task should be carried out. If we have an institution of commissioners, Commissioners, we must also have a sufficient number of people and sufficient resources to achieve the goal of achieving this. The intention was, and I mean, quite justifiable, right intention. To imitate and bring our situation closer to the shape and functioning of that institution. We've had experience, because this isn't a law that just now has changed, it's changed for the better, it's a law that exists for many years and where reports have been filed and so we can say that this report is better. And it warns that over time the situation has been mended, and that's what you've seen from previous reports, but this time a lot more. It is also evident that expectations have increased and knowledge that people have the right to receive information, these are the truth most often seen in difficult cases, on the number of requests to enable insight into some information. But also recorded not only in our home, there is a rise and a drop in the number of such laws. When a new institution is introduced, a new law increases the number of requests but even after a while it stabilizes. I also want to say that this is not about one neutral law, it's about a strategically important law. Mrs. Kosor pointed out that we have taken the obligation to effectively, the truth that it was not quite so effective, to effectively develop the means of prevention and, above all, this institution, so the opening of power in terms of the availability of information. Transparency of the financing of political parties and political campaigns and the third prevention of conflicts of interest. But here we must not forget that we have been warned that we have begun to make little provision in terms of preventing corruption, and that by boasting that it is a better repression, we have not achieved everything that needs to be achieved. I therefore read this report that a good assessment of the real situation and a warning that we really need to give more support, in terms of people and resources, to the functioning of such an institution. However, this report is new, not only in the methodology, in a formal sense, we have actually noticed earlier that it was getting thicker and less filled with content. It's not like that here, this is relatively short, concise, simple report that can be remembered after one reading, to get lessons out of it. What I want in particular to point out is that the report, including the debate that was here, highlights the fact that the availability of information is not only an individual right of citizens but, as the law says, it is the obligation of the body, the political bodies that decide, to make decisions to do their business and to make decisions presently so that people know what is being decided. That is why one of the main and very substantive recommendations is that it points to the practice of avoiding the real debate on what is proposed, what laws, and what strategies, what decisions. It's a habit we haven't been able to correct, it's not just a feature of these governments, but it's certainly something that bothers quality decisions, good laws. We have a fact of emphasising single communication. The ministry receives a proposal, but nothing about them is said or addressed or rejected, or received somehow by kickings. The proactive announcement is another highlighted area of the problem here. Not only do small units of local self-government have no resources but it is also that even those rich local self-government units do not want to highlight the information that interferes with home decision and camera because there is the problem we are dealing with. And it's not a matter of one month, six months or a year, but a fact of overcoming a culture of secrecy in which you're stronger, the more significant the more you can hide, do or mysteriousize what you decide to do. But it's not just such a neutral cultural phenomenon but it's about those important decisions where the funds are very often and very deliberate information wants to be hidden. But let's end it. The purpose of this law is to respect the obligations made by a strategic decision to create an open authority, an open power partnership, but it is only one small of all the necessary elements that would help, and this includes not only the opening of public debates, but also the opening of a forum, but also the testing of will and the setting of examples of what the people are raising and creating a certain culture, what are rightly called hard cases. It's not that you don't know this thing or that thing, but in the fact that even trivial things are declared secret because they kind of interfere with reputation. Is it about the price now or who the prime minister was having lunch with, so that's not the kind of thing that should be protected as a secret. It is protected only by a limit of good taste, and not by public interest. But that's where we come in for the big deal. This law also has an institution in relation to earlier laws, and the institution, or the Commissioner, has the instruments to force and to force them to submit, publish, and make available to the citizen or to the media, hidden or suspended data. That's a lot of progress compared to earlier practice. We had previously had rather strong equally firm examples that showed the inability of the authorities to open up in this sense. The law that doesn't apply you said he's unconstitutional. That's a little excessive. The law, however, and this is the quality of this institution here, requires careful address raising. Not just the fact that they are imposed as a liability or given as a right but to teach people to exercise their right, but the obligation to exercise it. This will not be done with great sanctions as much systematic efforts on education, education as is said here. The problem is that so far, we and the services that should have been involved in the opening and giving of data were primarily considered a way of closing the data. The PR does not mean that information is denied or avoided or that information is not relevant or not relevant. This means, in fact, a strategy for opening up to citizens and users. I'll point three points at the end. There is general agreement for the application of this law needs people and resources and that the institution of the Commissioner should be assisted. Secondly, I haven't talked about much, but it's very important, international context. The amendments to the laws we have adopted are considered very advanced and will, in fact, be directed towards what will soon become a European obligation for us because at EU level, acts are being prepared that will greatly repeat both the mechanisms and the principles of the law that we have. That is why I think the law should be supported and I look forward to the fact that it will be a great and unique support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80632	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. First came to Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80633	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your presentation, you mentioned, I find several key points important for understanding and law but important for understanding and this report. It is the body's obligation, so the public authority's obligation for the body to understand and understand, and the bodies make the people who lead them not to be pressured and that nothing should be done under pressure but that it is a normal and only possible way to function. Therefore, their functioning and the work of the information they possess must be made publicly available. And speaking of some units of local administration, you mentioned that it was about whether or not they had a wish. Yes, of course, it's about the concept of power and the functioning of power. So many today also believe in Croatia that the government is something that citizens so-called ordinary citizens and citizens who are concerned have nothing to do with it because they don't understand it because they don't understand it. I think that's what makes this misunderstanding very often. But even when they have, when citizens have, and I try several times to put it at the centre of attention and when citizens have information, remember the local elections last year, and when they have reliable information about the fact that some politicians have tails, that some are suspected, that some are investigated, that some are accused, that some are convicted in the first degree, remember also some mayors that they still get citizens' trust. So they have available information about everything but still give confidence. So it's some kind of closed circle we might need to discuss more often and more openly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80634	Come in, Mr. Cregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80635	Thank you. And it's nice to talk when you can top yourself up on a mate. I thank you for the supplements. And for your presentation, I have three points of complementarity. First of all, we have a culture of the Arctic Empire, a sacred government in which nothing should know what is going on, that everything is closed and secret in relation to the citizens. But that's one medieval concept. It really bothers us, too. It particularly bothers that there are things that are not public and that need to be protected, counterpart Babic looked back on it earlier in an intervention, not all the public is open. Some things are by nature closed by the public. The other thing is, where there's a will, there'll be ways. It is not a magical solution that every unit of local self-government has a website but adapted to the situation in which it works. Let's say the Muć municipality why it should have a website, there would be a lot of local drummers who would explain to the citizens what it is... I mean, I have better examples, I apologize here, I wanted to be as close to there as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And thirdly, the fact that of course we can sometimes complain about citizens deciding wrong when they don't choose us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80636	Thank you, too. The next replica of the Sun Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80637	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Craiger, we're talking about an independent body that depends on politics. I believe that we all understand, depending on the policy in that financial sense, because politics decides whether to give it a means to work or not. However, when we talk about this independent body, we can also observe it in this way that you are now talking about, but we can also observe it in a broader context. So let me remind you that what plagues not only citizens, but also potential investors, and in the investment form that was held in London as one of the investment obstacles in Croatia was just corruption. And when we talk about the Commissioner for Information, it is a tool for us to make these corruptions less or by means of it to point to possible corruption. And something else you said, so it's about how, when and if someone's going to publish something on the web pages. There they can agree with you, however, we have another way and it is actually those who do not do so that may sometimes create an unwarranted illusion that something is hiding there. So, if it's a matter of neglect, we can discuss it. But that's less important. You said when we passed the law that the intentions were good. And you know that the path to hell is also filled with good intentions. In any case, the intentions were good, the realization wasn't so good, and we shouldn't do it because of someone's ignorance to continue to do it, because it wasn't the intention of a legislator.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80638	Thank you. Answer, colleague Kregar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80639	That there are more answers, or more questions to be answered. I'll start from last, the time to hell is filled with good intentions. But what if there was no good intentions? ... No, I'm sorry, I'm not gonna be here opening up the question of whether or not there's hell if heaven isn't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But it's been a long time since we had the law, but we didn't have that good intention either. And this is about a very specific thing. This office needs more people and more resources. I'll stand for it, I guess that's what you're up for. Only there should we be aware of the fact that we had both men and resources and had no effect. Here we must not allow the lack of effect to be attributed to the inability or insufficient capacity of this office, it is inadmissible. As far as the entrepreneurship climate is concerned, very briefly. Me, but this is really one personal intervention, and I'm often angry when it comes to saying that the entrepreneurship climate is something that Goran Vakula should talk about. What is a disturbance to investment is the fact that we live in a society where people are not particularly honest. And then when strangers come in contact with them, they get the impression that it's a rule, not an exception. But that rule applies to irresponsible and unfair authorities and I hope it will not be valid in one system in which at least someone will answer and thus help the good climate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80640	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80641	Thank you very much. Mr. Professor, I'm signing everything you said, so you really summed up everything you need to say in a short time and say about this report that is excellently and correctly written, really readable, and here's as much text as it has is being followed by tables, charts and everything else. It is clear that some of the municipalities and you have listed one, but we will not talk about Muć or Špičkina or that Glavica upper, lower, etc., there is no need to come out as a body and to drum around the village to inform about what the municipal council is doing and what decisions the municipal council has made. Namely, there are also these advertising boards that are standard, common, traditional. Although we do not have all the right information on these advertising boards very often, modern times are today and we have other means of communication and communication opportunities Internet etc. But what I was about to say, which is that despite the shouting of the pillar of shame, therefore, the register of tax debtors, whether a mistake has been stolen or not, in that list of tax debtors that is a public matter, therefore information should be available as the right to access information here says, there are no large taxpayers. So I don't understand how some people are left out of that list, or it's a slip, a mistake, a intent, or I don't know what. Maybe the computer's somehow blocked up on some of them, so they're not on that list, although I know in Slavonski Brod some who are, for example, tax debtors in hundreds of thousands of kunas and maybe bigger ones, but they're not on the list. so I believe that there are other counties, the City of Zagreb, the state of Croatia. I don't know how that happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80642	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Craiger, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80643	I thank my colleague Grubisic for correcting my freedom of expression. He didn't compromise the law... but what you said at the end opens up a public perception problem. We heard here and it was often pointed out that it was a black list of shames. No, this is exactly what you're opening up as a question. We need to know who these taxpayers are who don't pay by name and last name because that's the only way we can control and demand responsibility from the authorities. What you're saying as an example, I think it's a good warning that the Commissioner might take into account at her job.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80644	Thank you. I hope you hear your reply to the replica, turn off the microphone. Okay. We're moving on to an individual debate. Boris Blazekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80645	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dr. Musa. Only the report says that we had full right when we changed the law and when we introduced the Institute of Commissioners or Commissioners for Information, unlike colleagues from HDZ who felt that it was not good. But just the report, its quality and methodological and even way of accessing the overall problem is proof that we were right. However, the right to access information is the right established by the development of democratic states and regulated by a special law, so that Croatia is placed in that order. In some countries, including Croatia, the right to access information is constitutional law. In addition to the Croatian Constitution, the right to access information is protected by the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. A report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2013 shall, for the first time, be submitted by the Commissioner for the Protection of Personal Data as an independent body having the power to protect the right to access information in appeal proceedings, in cases of the exercise of the right to access information and control of the implementation of that law. Under the law, every natural and legal person is a user of information rights and has the right to obtain and request information. Users, citizens, businesses, civil society associations may request any information they possess, which they have and which is supervised by the public authority. As a rule, all information by public authorities is public well-being and must be made available to all. The public authorities shall also be obliged to publish information regularly when there is no specific request. Access to information may only be limited in exceptional cases, and in cases prescribed by law, with an obligation to explain the duration of the limitation period to access information. The means of public interest and proportionality may be suspended by the law prescribed for the publication of information publicly provided that the test establishes that there is an important public interest in the publication of the information. Based on the report we are discussing, it is evident that certain public authorities have yet to understand or have not accepted or are not teamed up to implement the Law on the right to access information. These are data that point to current problems in the implementation of the Law on the right to access information. Among other things, there are comments that obtaining sensitive, complicated information remains too long and complicated a procedure, some times it cannot be obtained, and this can further jeopardise the human rights of citizens. It is a significant number of increases in information requirements compared to 3-4 previous year and points to an improvement in the legal framework and an increase in the interest of users of information, and speaks of certainly better user information on the ability to access information from public authorities, users of information, but also of increasing understanding of the public authorities on the need, i.e. the obligation to provide information. However, regardless of the significant increase in the request, the reading of the report in question concludes that, unfortunately, citizens and other users of the right to information are not fully familiar with their constitutional law. Even more so, the public authorities are not sufficiently aware of their obligations under the Law on the right to access information. It is necessary to support the expressed desire that further efforts should be made in the formation, education, both citizens and other users of information rights and further information and education of public authorities in their obligations to publish and provide information. By law on the right to access information, all public authorities are obliged to cooperate with the Commissioner for the Implementation of the Law on Access to Information, thereby enabling the Commissioner himself to work more efficiently, and to give citizens their other entities guaranteed human rights by the Constitution. The report shows that additional staffing of the Commissioner's Office is necessary in order to meet its purpose as an independent body for the protection of the right to access information. It is important to calculate quickly the means to increase the effectiveness of the Agency's work, i.e. the Commissioner. One of the real effects of the consumer implementation of the Law on the right to access information should be and should be to combat corruption. The greatest evil of any country is corruption. Corruption destroys the economy, creates distorted values, pushes the surface to the public's attention of people, events, phenomena that symbolize quasi success. It's only about the most courteous con men and thieves who are unable to function in an equally regulated legal environment. Corruption induces unfairness and injustice and is the cornerstone of devastating phenomena in society that promote inviolability, inviolability of fair life, personal education, honest work and fair entrepreneurship in public. Corruption destroys society. It is she who destroys all values and sets up lawlessness, promotes privileges, values progress without effort, humiliates work, degrades knowledge, rapes regularity, mocks honesty. Corruption is created and can arise exclusively in the country, i.e. in the relations of citizens and business entities with the state. It is established in state institutions and state-related companies. There is a phenomenon that ultimately would survive and survive in some cases simply forced to accept and numerous individuals, entrepreneurs of all kinds of activities. Fighting corruption is one of the permanent tasks of all in all spheres and at all levels of society. It is a special obligation for us politicians, especially parliamentary representatives, to indicate any small or large, smallest or greatest form of corruption, and even the very suspicions of corruption. The right to access information is one of the tools to combat this devastating evil. The real value of the right to access information and the responsibility of the authorities against those for which there are citizens and citizens. Each government shall carry out the tasks entrusted to it for a certain period of time by its citizens. Every institution and every administration serves the citizens. Therefore, anything treated from the budget, all businesses and anything that is a service in the state services, institutions and associations shall be paid by taxpayers, i.e. citizens and citizens, shall be subject to examination, questioning, evaluation and evaluation. Moreover, today's modern state leadership should be fully open to the public and to the citizens. Today's modern state needs to demystify as much as possible as possible there. Every modern government wants as much as possible to involve citizens in governance, i.e. in deciding and adopting laws and regulations. As a result, every modern state promotes a strong development of civil society that is increasingly participating in all processes in the state and society. Contemporary state leadership is an open state that expects its citizens, allowing them to participate in all processes even after the elections, to question those who have or have not voted. Contemporary state leadership enables its citizens to directly and indirectly contribute to the development and promotion of society as a whole. In this, citizens must feel comfortable and must feel that all state institutions are their institutions, that they have the full right to seek and demand from those who are currently in power to lead their country with increased attention, special care, and to care for institutions and the management of processes in the state and society. One of the tools that allows questioning, but... Participation in the Government of state institutions is the Law on the right to access information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The annual report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information is an important part of the process of democracy, democratisation in society. The Parliament as the most political, representative and political body of the Republic of Croatia has the right and obligation to know and warn about all failures and anomalies, especially in segments of human rights and civil freedoms. This is also the aim of all reports, including the Annual Report on the Implementation of the Law on the right to access information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80646	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Sun Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80647	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Blazekovic, I didn't quite understand what you were so impressed with. I couldn't really tell from your debate. Namely, as far as I know, your party is participating in the current government. You say hello, the law is excellent, you've raised your hand to him. We didn't and that's because we pointed to exactly what's happened now. And besides, you've raised your hand for something that I haven't heard of that you've been in the budget to advocate that this same commissioner, or the Commissioner's Office, gets funds to work. So I wasn't quite clear on what your impressions were, so I'd like you to probably explain it to me. So if we narrow it down to some two pluses and then we should have an equal sign that we should have a competent and responsible person. Here we have her in the image of the Commissioner. We should then have adequate resources provided and then an equal sign would be a successful and efficient work by the Commissioners. Well, if all of this had happened, as it may not have happened, Croatia would not have been 57 places in the corruption perception index, but perhaps we would have grown a little. So, I understand that someone's impressions are very important, but I also warn that in my report, the Commissioner herself lists a whole series of problems faced by shortcomings and cannot reach the goal that the law has imposed on her.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80648	Thank you. Answer, colleague Blazekovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80649	My colleague Glavas, I said that I was convinced that we had a full right when we changed the law and when we introduced the Commissioner's Institute, or the Commissioner for Information on the basis of the written report. By reading this report compared to the previous reports, I'm impressed, because this report, by my deep conviction, is incomparably better. As for the overall state of corruption in the society that you mentioned corruption in Croatia has a very long tradition. And in order to discuss it in particular, we would need a special session, me personally a few sessions to discuss the tradition of corruption in Croatia. I am convinced that this Institute of Information Commissioners that we have introduced this law is extremely good and that, in any case, it is the basis of this report, and especially when more resources are approved that it can work normally, or more effectively, because it has succeeded and with such small means it will make certain shifts that are visible, which are materially proven that this office and monitoring of the implementation of the Law on Access to Information will be much more quality and that we will get what we all believe is a zero corruption rate in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80650	Thank you. And last reported for discussion by Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80651	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Commissioner. I think this should be a rather important debate because in this entire system the right to access information is a rather interesting moment, we Law on the right to access information we now have 10 and 11 years if I am not mistaken, we passed the law in 2003, and we have now established a new actually institution of Commissioners for Information. I really think now is the time to perhaps essentially and deeply consider how the law works for us, which is the right to access information as a civil right or as some other generation's human right to say so, and maybe move away from declaring some phrases or the thesis that we've been working on for the last few years when we've all actually learned about what it's right to access information, to whom it's used, how it's used, why it's useful and similar. I, of course, also support the work of the Commissioner, and I support this report, and I have supported changes and additions and laws all together all these years. I was even one of the few MPs who discussed this law when we passed the law in 2003 and I really think that and I would actually like to say a few things about the law itself from that perspective. I don't want them to be understood as counter-rights or reports, but actually if we want to have access to information as democratic, civil, human rights if you want to, in a legal sense, then I think we need to talk in exactly the way that we really want to ensure that citizens have the right to see the bodies of public authorities but also more trust in the institutions themselves. It is, of course, seen in several aspects in 2013 in significant progress related for example to public debates. There's an increase if I don't cheat 160%, there were indeed some political decisions. For example, we have put the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in place that no law can come into the debate unless it is attached as an addendum to the Report on the consultation or public debate. The same thing is true of the government's procedure. Not so long ago here in the Parliament we were getting laws that no one had ever seen before until we got them here on the bench. And it's a really significant step. We can and should talk about it now, talk about it when we pass certain laws, how this counseling is carried out. However, the fact that that giant step of not knowing how the law came up to yet some kind of public consultation we crossed over and now we need to talk and of course talk about these things. In the second part, which concerns the right to access information in that I say narrowly, I think it is legitimate to ask the question whether the law solves the problem of the openness of the government or the openness of the authorities makes an even bigger problem from the perspective of the public authorities themselves that should implement it? By law, and now this latest version of the law has very broadly defined what this information is. I sort of explained to myself that information is all that's photocopieric to say. Anything anyone draws, anything anyone writes anywhere, sends by hand, by e-mail in any way. So the information is very wide-ranging. That's the difference between those first laws we had. In fact, we have also begun to have the right to access information. I am pleased to have the Commissioner on such cases and speak in this report that we are now discussing. On the one hand, we have abuse but legally and in any other way we do not have any mechanism and at least minimum protection which the Commissioner for the right to access information in public authorities or even a system of right to access information to the Commissioner himself in relation to these abuses. I'm afraid that the consequence could be that actually officials stop producing documents, stop producing internal memos, stop producing that kind of normal internal communication because they're putting themselves at risk of becoming a public document that someone is going to abuse tomorrow, that's what we've been having cases with, I'm going to say some examples, and actually go back to the gray zone from which we've been trying to drag them out for more than 20 years. Of course, the indirect consequence of this would be, in fact, even greater mistrust of citizens in the system, especially because they are, in so doing, open law and increased expectations actually from the public authorities themselves in terms of their openness and intransparentity. So I repeat again it is really not a problem in the law itself, in law itself, citizens really have the right to know, but I do have a problem with the abuse of these rights. We, for example, had a case where a citizen asked to be given a decision in the process of approving certain acts of delivery of the names of all the members of the committee. It's a process that takes months. This was naturally delivered to him, it is public information, etc. And what happened? He began to call one member at a time and actually put a considerable amount of pressure on them to make what decision they needed to make. This is indeed a problem, and as much information as it really is, I think there must be some protection. Another example of abuse, I called it an oblivious search for the right to access information. In fact, any citizen can theoretically make unlimited demands for access to information, e-mail one sentence, appeal to the ZPPI, and it's over. We had a case of a citizen who asked only one public authority in less than 6 months in 2013, more than 60 requests. And we get a bizarre situation that we as a state pay a civil servant just to deliver to that one citizen. Of course, that citizen, and that citizen, has the right to know only the question is the information required, the way to say so, what happens to them later really gives us the right to introduce some kind of protection mechanism. Therefore, the whole legal procedure for access to information goes to me in administrative procedure, the administrative deadlines apply and all those who want to refuse it, so it must actually be a fairly concrete case. From these actually two examples, because there's no time for more questions whether or not to set a limit and where the limit is actually located. The limit between what is a balance between the right of citizens to know on the one hand, and the effectiveness of the public authority body. Because if we bend down to say so, even though we're reducing the number of employees in general and locally, and in the state administration, we're saying that they're producing some kind of document on a counter-right to access information. We're actually making that power more inefficient, not transparent, and it's actually taking a lot and important longer in a time that's getting faster and faster. So, I repeat, I pray that for the third time not to be seen as my disputing of that right, but in fact a way to find a balance between these two interests, because these two interests exist and the art is, and therefore now and here and I am saying, in fact I, Madam Commissioner, expect you to actually participate in creating that balance and in some way help people who do so. Last one, information officers in public authorities. We talked about them a little bit, I think they're extremely important, we've talked a lot about your office, I have understanding of your difficulties, but every citizen first speaks to that officer who is actually a body in the first degree, who is the one who solves that request, who also has his own regular became a very often official or information officer. Strengthening their capacity, I think, is very important, but also protecting these people. It is clear to me from the transparency of the law that we have put that person, their name, their last name, the email address is being published on the website of the public authorities or at least they should. There are people, some of them have come to me who are literally exposed to terror by some citizens who are constantly misusing it. A colleague literally told me, she's two to three hours a day as a commissioner talking to a man on the phone,... a team that sends out two requests every day. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I think that's where we need to find a balance and give support, and we also expect that from you, Commissioner, because I'm saying that, and I hope that it won't be against these people, because I kind of expect that they're your first network or your extended arm or theirs, however things turn out. So, to be brief, so every right goes hand in hand with a certain obligation and with a certain responsibility, and it seems to me that we have to do a little bit more, so when we have given the right to have a different side of responsibility, it is equally applied to citizens and bodies of public authority. And it's not good that the law, this is a good court to slip into this or that extreme, and there's really art, and I hope that you will make the most possible effort to establish a balance, and then that will mean effective law enforcement. And then it's an approach to information about what the original opinion is and how it should be. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80652	Thank you. We'll hear the replicas. First respected Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80653	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs, and interesting reading or ideas, they happen to me in my head as you talk about this, and you're absolutely right in your debate. I have no objection to your debate, but speaking of this Law on the right to access information, I do not know whether it falls under this right to access information and answer which one, for example, the Split-Dalmatia County should refer to a written inquiry by a citizen not suitable for 6 years. Even under the General Administrative Procedure Act, I do not know how, either, the answer to the request, the written inquiry to the County of Split-Dalmatia should follow within 30 days. For six years, a man has been waiting for an answer, named Milan Babic of Gornji Brela. So, about the Law on Consciousty of Apartment Rights after 35 years of housing in that apartment, now I'm not going to be speaking any particulars. But here are 6 years of man waiting for the reply of Split-Dalmatia County and the administrative bodies of Split-Dalmatia County to respond. Is that, is there also a broken law on the right to access information, I don't know. But somehow it seems to have a little something to do with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80654	The replica corresponds to the respected Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80655	With all due respect, you've now made a classic manipulation of this law and this law. Yeah, classic manipulation right to access information and actually by applying this law. Many people when they come across the silence of the administration in these cases, then they go to be called because it actually interprets the right to access information by the MPI, that's not it. Of course, the public authority needs to answer to citizens, it's a question of another law, but it's not in this sense legally on access to information, and it's very dangerous for the affirmation of this right to interpret it in this way, interpret it, so if you want to abuse it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80656	Second replica Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80657	Thank you very much. My colleague Lugaric, it is very interesting what you have said about the possible abuse of citizens of a particular institution and of a particular person who is in charge of the public authority for information, but I think that person or person responsible for informing the body of a public authority may also, with full right, contact the information commissioners who can also protect by explaining whether or not she is obliged to suffer this abuse by the alleged words of a certain citizen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80658	The replica corresponds to the respected Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80659	I agree with you fellow, but I think it is and that is why I pointed out that I am experiencing these Commissioners in the bodies of the public authority, Commissioner as one body some are first, the matter is perspective. And I've just had the intensities of the debate and it's to be understood that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80660	Final minutes belong to the Commissioner for Information Dr Anamaria Musa. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80661	I thank all the honourable MPs and MPs for their very useful remarks, remarks, mild criticisms I have written down and will take a closer look at this debate in order to achieve a greater degree of transparency in the next report on the well-being of the citizens of this country. I am pleased to sum up my answer because it is impossible to respond to each of the replicas, commentary, I am pleased to note that a key problem in the implementation of this law is the creation of a culture of transparency or of a change of consciousness with both public authorities and citizens about the need to ensure access to information and use of that right by citizens. That is what we are also aware of in the office and I personally and our basic goal, which is highlighted in this report, we have determined the education of the public authorities and the promotion of that right in the public, which we have come to the conclusion and we have withdrawn ourselves by experience. At the daily level of communication, we communicate on a daily basis with public authorities especially information officers who keep talking to us and come to the office or communicate with them or go to them to discuss individual cases and help them implement the law. We have noticed that with each such encounter, we are facing an increase in awareness of the importance of this right and we are getting one consent and consent from these bodies to submit to that law and to act on it even though they may have initially shown significant resistance and even claimed not to apply that law. This refers in particular to a whole series of legal entities which are neither state bodies nor local etc. who tried to get away from me to say so since the law was implemented. What matters to us, and this is also pointed out here is that we are part of a network of commissioners or officials, maybe we are in a central position because we gather them all together and in this base that has been talked about, all these units or bodies of public authorities will be published and we keep in touch with them and send them different information. What the aim of this education and promotion is to ensure that the bodies of the public authorities understand that we and they are on the same side and that this is the same side, that there are actually no two sides but a common action on the well-being of all citizens. I would just like to mention here that the importance of education we saw last week at a conference that we held last Thursday on 29th, which was hosted by a former Scottish commissioner who had been in charge for 10 years. When Scotland passed the Law on the right to access information the same year as we, it determined that the law would start to apply two years later, so 2005. The Commissioner was elected immediately and was given resources both human and financial to conduct intensive education and promotion. What happened? in those two years, he has achieved that his decisions and respect are being made and that citizens are getting information and, with a few more eclad cases of violations, it has happened that today Scotland is one of the examples of transparency in Europe and also their law. I am also pleased to mention that the problem of abuse of rights is mentioned, and we have put it in the report very well aware of the problem. However, I would like to mention one thing here, we are one of the few countries that have not solved the issue of abuse both of this right and of any other right which also points to the weakness of our institutions, including a legal framework which is also an institutional mechanism. It is therefore possible that each individual was within or outside the institution very easily that institution or outside the institution very easily begins to use that institution for some of his own interests, calling me corruption, nepotism or ultimately abuse of the public authority. What is evident from our practice is that citizens are most often used the right to access information and bomb to say so by public authorities when they are unable to exercise their right to other relevant regulations, which again indicates that in the end the problem is in institutions, not in those citizens. Therefore, no matter how much we are aware that this should be regulated properly, we are also aware that as long as institutions do not carry out their work according to other regulations, there is a possibility that any provision that would limit these abuses, and not if that would not be appropriate for public authorities to use it to deny citizens information when it is not basic. I therefore believe that this issue should continue to be polymerised and regulated in the end in an appropriate manner. But in any case, what is crucial is still that everyone with his right should act consciously and carry it out knowingly, and so that those who have the obligation to implement these obligations in accordance with the law and in accordance with the purpose for which that law has been passed. So as I say here we have already held 9 educations all last year we held them 6 so we have already been very active on this issue and I hope that next year this report will show a significant step right in that part and this is a change of consciousness and in the far line and a better position on the scale of perception of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80662	I thank and conclude the debate. We'll vote when conditions are made.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80663	Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2013. The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2013 is hereby adopted. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted unanimously by 97 votes in favour. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to provide resources for the achievement of the necessary personnel, material preconditions for the functioning of the Office of Commissioners for Information and Implementation of the Law on Access to Information". Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? All right, there's a re-election request and I'll speak louder. Shall I read the conclusion? A respected colleague has been proposed, and MPs know their obligations and their rights. So, the Committee on Human Rights has proposed something, and I read, "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is in charge of providing resources for the achievement of the necessary personnel, material preconditions for the functioning of the Office of Commissioners for Information and Implementation of the Law on Access to Information." Please, who's in? We were looking for a colleague again. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find the proposed conclusion not accepted. The conclusion was voted on by 31, against 61 votes and 6 abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80664	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - The proposal for a decision on the appointment of the President and members of the National Council for the Development of Human Resources; the Proposer of the Decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 10. The law on the Croatian qualification framework. You received the proposal and the discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of Science and Education and Sports Sas Zelenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80665	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Very short, therefore, as already highlighted in accordance with the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which is one of the most important instruments that should create a link between our qualification framework and the European and bring the education system in line with the needs of the labour market. The law provides for the formation of the National Council for Human Resources Development as the central strategic body of the Republic of Croatia for the development of the Croatian Qualifications Framework. In accordance with the laws of the President and 24 members, the composition of the National Council, i.e. the provisions of the Law, provide for the Council to appoint the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government. As I pointed out, therefore, one of the most important tasks of the council is precisely recommendations for improving the integration of education and labour market needs, or for recommendations from sectoral councils, which are further bodies which provide for legislation on registration policy, registration quotas and funding of qualifications from public sources according to qualifications and needs of the county. And which is something that the European Union warned us about in the report you saw two days ago. So, right here, we have a structural problem that our qualifications are still not in line with the needs of balanced regional development and the need for labour markets. So I ask you, in that sense, to support the proposal before you and to support the formation of the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80666	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club will speak to the esteemed Damir Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80667	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, my fellow Members and colleagues. I'll be really short. Some of the jobs and tasks of the National Council were said by Deputy Zelenika, so I would not repeat myself here, and here for the sake of the public, I will state which 24 people are, or not whom they are, but who is proposing them. Namely, five representatives are given by the authorities of the state administration and one representative at a proposal from the Ministry of Science and Education, one on a proposal from the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Regional Development. Two representatives are from the area or regional self-government, taking account of balanced representation on the proposal of the Ministry of Regional Development. Three representatives are representatives of representative union associations, three employers, one representative of civil society organisations on a proposal from the body responsible for co-ordination with such organisations, one representative of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, one representative of the craftsman, one national coordinator of the sectoral councils, three representatives of the higher schools, two on the proposal of the rectorial assembly and one on the proposal of the Council of the University and of the High Schools. Furthermore, one representative of the institution, or a community of adult education institutions on a proposal from the Agency responsible for adult education, one representative of the Agency responsible for Education and Education, one representative of the Agency responsible for Professional Education, one representative of the Agency responsible for Science and Higher Education and one representative of the Croatian Employment Institute. As you can see, a charming society that will surely run this body very well. And I have nothing to add except that the SDP club will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80668	Thank you. There's been a single debate reported. Dear Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80669	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. One of the major objections that comes and criticism heard in the public is the inconsistency of our education sector with the labour market, with the economy much has been mantraled. We finally, after a long pain in the process, started in 2006, it seems to me, as the Croatian Parliament last year, to vote the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework as actually an instrument that connects the two sectors or those two areas. The key body for the implementation of the Croatian Qualifications Framework is precisely this National Council for the Development of Human Potentials and it is a strategic body, which corresponds to us, corresponds to the Croatian Assembly. I have to admit I'm looking forward to it, that first annual report of theirs in a year. The expectations of the National Council are high. It was relatively easy for us to pass the law, despite all the problems. It is good that this has continued to work, a Regulation on the Register of the Croatian Qualifications Framework has been adopted. Therefore, all preconditions have been met to name sectoral working groups, in order to start working on sectoral profiles and in fact, to fill the qualification framework with certain qualifications. However, unless the National Council for the Development of Human Resources does do its job which is foreseen by law in some way to propose measures and integrated policies of education, regional, economic, if it does not make recommendations for registration policies, if these educational stakeholders will not follow and will not listen to me fear that we will have a vain job. In that sense, my really strong support. And that is why I have come forward for the debate, in fact to develop the very development of the further system, to implement the Croatian qualification framework as well as the bodies responsible for their implementation. We, without an effectively implemented Croatian qualification framework, will base our decisions in education policy on what we think, we think we need an economist, we think we need a lawyer, then we realize that there are a lot and too many of them on the stock market. So we're not developing any predictive system. This national body is exactly what should bring informed and reasoned recommendations for this policy and so to speak. I personally expect a lot from that national council, I expect a lot from the Croatian Qualifications Framework itself, and in that sense my support and the work of this National Council that we are about to appoint today, I want them to start doing it right about tomorrow and actually implementing the qualification framework itself. Perhaps there is a need for Mr. Deputy to make a little extra effort with all the efforts that are being made so far, actually to sensitize not only this educational part. It seems to me that part is more or less reflected. This part of the economy is informed if nothing else, but now let me put it this way to attack these regional policies or regional communities to do some predictions and their own little local development strategies because, in fact, without it, all of this together is quite pointless or not entirely in the least. And in order for the whole story to get round, I think we need to do another last step specifically related to local and regional communities. Here is my support for the appointment of this council, but much more actually for the implementation of the Croatian Qualifications Framework itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80670	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80671	Proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the National Council for Human Resources Development. The debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the National Council for Human Resources Development. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed decision has been made by a majority of 80 votes in favour of, 11 against, 6 abstentions in the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80672	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. This is - The proposal for a decision appointing members of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 112. Law on scientific activity and higher education. You've received the motion for an act. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposal's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Saša Zelenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80673	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs. So another significant body in the system in this case of higher education and science. Therefore, in accordance with Article 112 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Law on scientific activity and higher education The Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government, appoints a Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, which has 9 members. The Committee's task is to promote ethical principles and values in science and higher education, in business relations and relations with the public, and in the application of modern technologies and in the protection of the environment. In addition, the Committee shall adopt an ethical code laying down ethical principles in higher education, scientific work, publication of results, relations between scientists, teachers and other participants in the scientific and educational process, procedures and actions related to competition and public relations and means of public communication. Furthermore, universities, universities, higher schools, institutes and other scientific organisations can establish their ethical committees in accordance with the statutes, but the ethical codes they will bring in the future must be consistent with the Committee's ethical code. This is important because good practices in the Member States of the European Union show that this hierarchy, i.e. the structure of the system throughout the vertical process, achieves the best results. Why this is all important, so because among other things, through one European Union project again, an examination has been carried out at our largest universities, so Rijeka, Osijek, Split and Zagreb, which have been established by us by quite devastating data. So 60% of the students subscribe to exams. Of the 6300 students surveyed, over 100 circled that money or other prizes were required to pass the exam. 9% of employees have answered the question whether in the last 5 years you have received a cash offer for the exam. 50 to 60% of scientific staff have knowledge of the undeserved authorship of certain scientific papers. 30 scientific staff are familiar with plagiarism cases, 53% are familiar with the phenomenon of nepotism, 20% are familiar with the phenomenon of political favoration. What's probably the most remarkable thing in all of this is that 80 to 90% of the scientific staff who are familiar with some of these phenomena of unholy acts have done nothing to expose these cases. So we as a scientific-academic community have a task, and similarly probably what has been said before in a broader social context when it comes to protecting the right to access information, simply raise awareness of the problem and do something to make it work, and systematically or structured in this approach should be assisted by this committee, which then again every year submits a report to the Croatian Parliament. So simply to raise awareness of the problem and where there is a problem to do something that is also preventive, of course, but also correct in order for these phenomena to appear, unhonorable phenomena to be sanctioned in those worst and most recent examples. So before you there is a proposal to appoint a committee, nine board members, so on behalf of the Government, I invite you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80674	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First honorary colleague Jasen Mesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80675	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, in your opening statement, you did not mention a single sentence of the criteria by which you came to this choice. Many of these individuals, and I personally know, certainly some of them have qualities and also these ethical ones that are required to be there, but I think the question of the criteria here is very important. Perhaps the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education will discuss, for example, the issue of the Minister and the opening of possible jobs so that someone there can get a job after the term of office. On the basis of which criteria you have chosen precisely this person whom you propose to the Croatian Assembly for the vote, by which you redistribute. Do they cover all aspects of what we consider science, higher education or at least most of them at this time in the Republic of Croatia and how do you think that, in accordance with your opinion, this Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education could possibly discuss the case that we had with Minister Jovanovic about what he apologized for. He thus admitted that he had opened and prepared a job at a higher school institution that should eventually wait for him for the day of his employment. It was my replica, and I believe you'll find some answer about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80676	The second line is respected Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80677	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's a clue to what my colleague Mesic said not knowing that he was going to talk about, and what Mr. Zelenika was saying about the unholy phenomena, about sanctioning them by talking about ethics and morality. I will remind, in fact, what it was really about with Mr. Jovanovic, and it was an affair with the setting up of millions of amounts to the University of Rijeka. He also abused his ministerial position and political power in order to ensure his own post-minority. How to trust this minister and how to trust this ministry is mainly about the appointment of this trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80678	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected Miroslav Tudjman will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80679	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored MPs and MPs. It is before us that this proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. As the Deputy Minister warned, it is an important committee, i.e. the importance of this establishment of an ethical code, with the emphasis being placed here on the basis of this information that the Deputy Minister has expressed on the criminalisation of the scientific community, in fact, that it does not actually meet any standards of decency or better put an ethical standard by all of these percentages. In spite of that, I think the task of this commission is that today it's not only whether one of them prescribed or not, but that it deals with the objectives, but also with the objectives of scientific research. Because today, at a time when technology allows us to tap into some of the fundamental values and settings of modern society from cultural and national identity to everything else. For example, to what extent it is acceptable to deal with genetically modified food, production, and such things. Therefore, it is something that this Committee should deal with. The earlier question arises, in fact, what my colleagues have already said earlier, the criteria by which the composition of this Committee is proposed. We have a nine-member proposal here. At no point would I question the credibility, scientific and professional of these members. However, obviously from the material attached which is quite informative, the representative of the availability of information could be very pleased. But with it not being crucial again, as it has already been pointed out. Of these nine members, if by what I've seen about this, only Professor Balaban deals with ethics and ethical problems, but others don't. Others have a very large number of works, relevant works in their profession. But pure illustration works, I also have a few hundred papers published, scientific and professional papers. I'm probably only dealing with ethics in one or two, but I wouldn't consider myself an ethics expert in scientific activity. So that's the question of what are the criteria for selecting these candidates. On the other hand, a series of sub-questions in this regard can be set out, for example, why or by what criteria proposed by the HAZU or the university or the Senate. Out of four, he's the one who's chosen, not someone else. We don't have that kind of information. On the other hand, since we should take care of this and about this one you will and the social and political dimension this choice is if we use one term rather Zagrebocentric or recocentric, because there is no one from, say, Osijek or Split. On the other hand, we could ask a question, I'm talking because we don't know what these criteria are, why there aren't any lawyers. Not because I believe that this committee should deal with legal issues, because although the law gives it certain procedural powers. However, the Committee needs to deal with strategic issues in my opinion, and the lawyer is needed in this sense to say which matters should not be legally dealt with by the board in resolving these ethical issues because this has been resolved in some other way and should be sought and resolved in another direction. What is indicative here in all, in this whole decision-making process, means we have a series of these institutions from the university community to the university to the Croatian Academy, etc., but in my opinion there is no key institution that should be involved here, there is no National Council for Higher Education and Science. She didn't make her proposal. It didn't just work out because this proposal went away before the council was established. I don't see why it wasn't waiting for this council to be established for just a few reasons. Because in one way it is the National Council for Higher Education and Science, a roof institution for the overall scientific community. And it would be logical to hear that opinion because that opinion in some way would be credible or in other words those who would have been elected to this committee on the basis of that opinion would have far greater dignity and far greater weight or authority in their work. So theoretically, we can imagine that this council will then even have other suggestions, but at this point I wouldn't, I wouldn't speculate on that right now. On the other hand, it would have been that it had some consideration and rationality precisely because a number of questions have already been raised in the media about the Minister of Science's behaviour that he insisted that he not be the first instance to appoint and propose either the last instance but to have a proposal in this National Council, precisely because, as he has already said, he himself could be the first subject of research into this Committee on Ethics in Science. Because as we know from the media, the minister has been elected a doctor at the Faculty of Medicine in Osijek. We heard if I'm not mistaken if the media correctly transferred it to Osijek and gave a lecture there, and recently it was Minister Jovanovic who approved the registration of valosotherapy in Opatija as a scientific establishment that is the institution of the Faculty of Medicine in Osijek. And then it's not hard to assume that the solution and his personal engagement will eventually be such that students from Osijek will travel to Opatija, 400, 500 km to listen to lectures in this new scientific unit of valotherapy and he will be more comfortable from Rijeka to Opatija to give these lectures. Therefore, it would be much smarter if such things hadn't been opened at all, if the procedure had been much more transparent and it had gone from institutions that were relevant to it. So the key, however, is in this, I repeat again, I am not questioning the science and expertise of these candidates, but the question of how the criteria are chosen, so that we can actually get the right assessment to remove all these doubts because I say, among other things, that the National Council as one roof institution does not strengthen the position of this proposed committee because it binds it too much to the minister or ministry and not to the scientific community. And it will begin to be a handicap for the work of this committee. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80680	Thank you. We have a replica of the esteemed Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80681	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the truth is, what you were saying was... Tudjman, you may not have indicated that this was the setting up of a million-dollar sum of the Rijeka University of about 24m euros, and that it was actually Minister Jovanovic who did the illicit activities is also an inspection finding in which he expressed doubts that he did not follow the procedure when granting EU funds to Croatian universities. Perhaps you didn't mention anything else, it was controversial that the Minister of Science paid the consulting house from Novi Sad a certain means to support the University of Rijeka and could actually do so with Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80682	The line matches the esteemed colleague Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80683	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, obviously it means there's a series of open questions. I would not now define whether they are correct or not, but this was before I said so, and it would be in the interest of the Minister and the Ministry to form this Ethics Commission on other grounds by clear criteria so that these issues could be cleared up. By having something here, one form of behavior that goes from another example that you have not mentioned but which is known to the public, which is that these repressive mechanisms that exist both in the Ministry of Science or in the Government are also implemented in the field of science. We had an example with the University of Zagreb and the Rector when he criticised the Minister of Science then immediately came inspections which then began to claim that certain universities do not make contracts according to certain legal norms, namely the paragraphs one and the other, which will again be in some way a question and ethical behaviour, but it is doubtful whether this ethical commission will have the basis to address these issues at all. And de facto it concerns the competence and autonomy of the university, which is an old tradition, and with this and this behavior, these competences are getting narrower and more lost.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80684	On behalf of the SDP club, the respected Damir Tomic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80685	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here's just one little note from my colleague Babic, he'd be good to follow when he's already saying things. This information he said about this company from Novi Sad is the thing that Mr. Fuchs paid your minister for in 2009, so please pay attention when you speak so that everything you said before is the same for me as the subject of the debate. I listened carefully to my colleague Tudjman, I didn't want to replicate, this remark that it would be good for a lawyer to sit in that body, it's really something the ministry should think about, maybe it's not a bad idea at all. As for the story of having very few ethics experts, I personally think it is not a crucial story, the composition of the commission is defined in accordance with the provisions, I will just say who appoints them, the National Council for Science and Higher Education and Technological Development of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the Rectoral Assembly, the Council of Higher Education and Higher Schools, other scientific organisations, universities, Minister of Science, etc. etc. If we were to talk about ethics, being an ethics expert doesn't mean it's ethical, then we'd have to form a body that will determine the ethics of the proposed candidates. I think we'd get very involved here. I am sure that the criteria, on the basis of 40 proposals from people in the ministry, will be very easy to explain by the Deputy Zelenika. I would still just refer to this fact that unfortunately I admit, unfortunately, the National Science Council did not propose a candidate, but let us consider that the tender for this body was announced on 23 December 2013. So, we couldn't really, we couldn't really wait for the National Council to be formed so that they could name someone in this body. And besides that, it's not the only problem of appointing to a National Council proposal, they skipped a series of things because we were a little late with it. I wanted to read the references of some candidates, or some elected members, but it doesn't make any sense since all the predecessors said they didn't, that they didn't find it controversial. So I'm going to end up here, and I'm going to conclude that the SDP club that makes clear the criteria by which these people are chosen will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80686	This exhibition is being replicated by the esteemed Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80687	Dear colleague, thank you very much, Vice President. The esteemed colleague, there were other remarks made by Professor Tudjman regarding the remarks, therefore unbalanced geographical representation. I believe that's what you've been thinking about. The question of the criteria of ethics, which is why you said it well, if anyone is involved in ethics, bioethics, etc. Doesn't mean he's automatically ethical. That's where we absolutely agree. And that's why it's important to clearly point out the criteria because it seems to me that, to assess the team at the ministry that simply based on the reports that have been made, this one might be ethical for a story. There we have lost our geographical debate, we have lost a public criterion and we are facing another problem that multiple and many universities in the Republic of Croatia have not yet prescribed the ethics of individual professions, i.e. codified such ethical rules that in this commission, if there is no even representation, if most scientific disciplines are not represented, the problem will be caused. In that sense, I think that could have been done more, regardless of which no ad personam criticises nor scientific work, nor do we assume certain ethical maturity and ethical morality of individual candidates who are accompanied here. The fact is, of course, the question is, are those others who fell off, that they could have been better at it. If they are no better at which measurement they are not and by which assessment they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80688	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80689	That I didn't mention what my colleague Tudjman said because I forgot. I agree with that and I am sorry that Zagreb dominates, I am sorry that there is no one from Slavier, but if you have carefully looked at the proposals of all 40 proposals you may find it more clear why it was difficult to evenly represent the regional key. You also mentioned the fields of science, that they were unevenly distributed, so look at these nine candidates, and you'll see how wrong you are here, but here's a colleague of mine, I don't think you've really studied it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80690	An individual discussion of the respected Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80691	Well, I was thinking that maybe the respected deputy minister in that replica and that dear colleague Tomic will talk longer, so we'll have more opportunities through the replica, so I also applied for an individual debate in that sense. You know when, in modern times, about science in the Republic of Croatia, you get this proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education, a whole film of the situation that we have had recently in the science sector. The last article I read was related to the allocation of funds for scientific projects where people who would put themselves more hypothetically in line with some left implementation and who were very critical of previous ministers who came from the ranks of the Croatian Democratic Community spoke of the disastrous distribution of funds for scientific projects. Ethics on science and higher education. How do you really interpret this committee when you have a situation that you can't get a scientific recruit, when you have a situation that we had the idea that all regular teachers must retire at 65 years regardless of the criteria and when you have the situation of what you have with current Minister Jovanovic? I often look very closely at the committee and respect that the minister can appear very often on the Committee on Science, Education and Culture and defend certain legislative proposals and always try to discuss very consistently. However, this position is indefensible, indefensible. It's so impenetrable that the minister realized that the best damage control was to apologize and say he was wrong and let's not say it wasn't. We had more of those statements where the minister still had to apologize. You remember that statement about coming with the carriage to work. And now, in the ministry, this appointment must have been passed by the cabinet of ministers and probably by the minister himself. And now in this situation we need to believe that the Committee on Ethics of Science and Higher Education will really do what the Honorable Deputy Minister said. Let us doubt that. The more individual professors and academics who are here, the more directly sided with the minister when they went into the parliamentary procedure, the different legislative proposals, the more openly and confronted themselves with other colleagues from some other scientific environments who criticised these proposals. Is that perhaps the criterion by which they were elected on this committee, which we could not hear in the opening statement? I will say very openly, I know that, say academic Vlatko Silobrčić, whom I highly respect as a scientist, has very openly defended the position of the ministry regarding certain legal proposals. For example, our colleague Flego, the former minister, has openly criticised them. And now you have a situation that someone who has so openly defended the position has been elected to an ethical commission. Whether it's some kind of long return or not, I don't know, but in that sense, you'd really like to hear the criteria. That would solve a lot of these concerns. And this about the minister, we have nothing to discuss because the minister apologized. So, but yet the appointment of members of the Committee on Ethics and Higher Education I believe that we are all more or less clear that right now it may be the least problem we have in Croatia science and higher education. I think it will be much more interesting when one day we open in the Croatian Parliament the topic of allocation of funds for individual projects from everything that can be read on the portals and in the presses, about the number, about the quality of approved projects, for the amount that they are financed and in the way that it is done. There will only be a question of criteria that will gain its main value because this is still about the Committee on Ethics of Science and Higher Education, and this is about money that some projects mean life. So I think that regardless of all the criticism we've brought about this, that part of the story is still going to be so interesting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80692	Thank you. Replica, Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80693	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Mesic, you could have said right away that those people who didn't give God any time, anything positive said about Minister Jovanovic, you could have said that right away, then they would have saved us all a few minutes. And secondly, as far as projects and money are concerned, I must remind you that it is the Ministry of Science who has withdrawn more than 100% of the money from the European funds. So what did Zeljko Jovanovic put in his pocket?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80694	The replica matches Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80695	Yeah, I have to admit that I've been a little bit caught up with a colleague, not exactly my custom of losing my lines, but this more than 100% I have to admit surprised me, we're going to have to do it once, maybe at some thematic session of our board to discuss it, I believe you'll take part in it, so sort of explain it. Oh, come on, God, then I'd mind myself, dear colleague, because I just said that I'm commending and that I'm very positive about the minister coming very often on a committee explaining certain suggestions. There has never been a single incorrect sentence in that discussion on these topics, which means that I would have bothered myself because in that sense the minister in some way commended me. I don't mind that, I'm interested in who were others and by what... who are here better than those others. And I asked the question, if someone doesn't tell me clearly, then I have to think about it that probably someone here has been appointed because in his current work and his positions he defended the position of the ministry, if it isn't so for Mr. Deputy, the esteemed deputy I greatly appreciate, please say so. And we're going to solve here... what... about the hot porridge. Either there are criteria or it was a cabinet decision by the minister under some discretionary law. I say once again, I'm less interested in this Committee on Ethics of Science, and I'll be much more interested in it when the question of money and projects comes, and look at that, dear colleague, I believe you've seen it yourself, I know you're following this area, what are the comments... whatever kind of scientific sphere you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80696	Second replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80697	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Mesic, it is clear that this is the discretionary right of the minister and so... we have nothing to say. You're asking persistently for criteria. There are no criteria it is clear and completely obvious that it is the discretionary right of the minister and so appointed Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. You mentioned something to Slavonia in that sense that there are no members from Slavonia, so there are no universities in Slavonia. You have one University of Josip Juraj Strossmayer in Osijek, all the other universities are at sea and clearly this is our central university in Zagreb, so you have the main one, and you have Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Split and Dubrovnik, 5 sea universities and Zagreb and Osijek is 6. So one of these continental, Pannonian or Slavonic ones. But anyway, if it's about what you said about money and the distribution of money for scientific works and everything that comes after that then it's clear that if there's no one from this Slavonic university or the Slavonia area that we're going to stay in Slavonia again as we already have and in everything else we're cut off, most likely.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80698	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80699	It's obvious that we're thinking the same thing about this. You know, it would still somehow be hard for this committee to hand-to-heart sometimes when applications come to measure which of these 40 candidates is more ethical or less ethical or more ethical, it's not an easy way to objectively set criteria. But this is a very easy and well-respected colleague. What you have pointed out will wait for us in the future for the debate in this House, it is about money for programs, which means that you directly influence and not small money that can be directly determined and that certain scientific directions will develop, who will then be published, who will be elected to higher scientific calling, who will one day become an academic, who will be able to gather more scientific recruits around you, who will be able to publish more works of scientific works, who, accordingly, will receive a better rating in society, who will eventually be your mentor for a doctorate or something like this, and so on and so on. Thus, there is an entire diapazon of interesting issues that can come to a table or under public interest, under the interest of the media, as has come about the opening of a potential job of a respected Mr. Minister of Science.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80700	Individual debate, respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80701	Thank you very much, Vice President. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I must admit that I didn't mean to discuss this decision, but I was a little surprised by the introduction of a respected deputy in the light of this decision and why these candidates are being proposed because I had some fear. And I have two kids who, at some point, have to enroll in some high school facility, some college at some university, and I wonder what's important, is it important to you knowledge or money? If that's all the polls are saying, and the polls are obviously carried out by the ministry, the minister, the deputy, because who really is the most important thing there to pay for, and they don't know anything, then the question is, where is our country going? And then what do those on top of that system do? And then you go back 2.5 years and you pick up these powerful announcements, the very guidelines that have been given to solve all this, which the minister will do and compare to the situation today. You're wondering if we've spent 2.5 years in vain? And that's why I'm trying to say something here because I feel that the leading people of our Ministry of Education and Science have taken this as some kind of exhibition. We got some kind of space to act so we hit all sides of the sport, from education, from higher education institutions, we hit everyone, and the results are like that, first of all, everybody's unhappy. For all pay cuts, kids are unhappy, we're always listening to some kind of poll, and our kids are fat, and they're like this, and they don't know anything, the worst of math, the worst of this, so it's not your job, so I think you have to at least look for something good in your business, the best thing you can say out there, so it's not up to you to mud out the system you run. So I'm asking you, are you capable then? I see this as another blow to university autonomy with this kind of data, that's what Professor Tudjman was talking about. First you tried them, remember the budget rebalance, we figured out about a billion let's go get it into the budget, until I guess they came to their senses so they realized they couldn't do it and couldn't do it. And now this poll again. We really need an Ethics Committee like this in that high education. But when we enter that relationship I remember one statement in the paper where the minister's relationship and his deputy is reduced we must be together or we must leave one and the other from that ministry. So if my assistant goes, I go, too, if the minister goes, the assistant goes. So they're in one relationship, and if you don't function, nothing works. And how does that work today anyway? Knowing some of the statements of the ruling coalition that morale is a slippery moment in politics, we have come to the conclusion that here is the minister in view of his actions, I think he will be the first candidate for such an Ethics Committee to ask him something. What did you mean by the Ministers when you answered the contest published in Slavonia's Voice for the workplace in Opatija, and you're still a minister, what did you mean by that? Because it's unthinkable for people today that one minister who has a job with a good coefficient, with all the accompanying services, with privileges, cards, I don't know cars, everything else that goes with a ministerial function wanted at one point to have another job in reserve. I'm here on the topical clock and I asked him about it because he's coming from my county and I'm not just ashamed that he did such a bad act but came from my county, we sailors aren't like that. We don't need two jobs to work at this time. You understand. I was surprised by that, too. It surprised me, so I asked him what it was that you did. Because you knew at that point that the government had a law on the rights of government officials' obligations where it allows you as a minister to still have a year's pay when you finish your term. It also allowed you this government of yours to go back to where you came from and into politics if you had a job and you made it happen. And then the moral part came into question, so 360 thousand people are unemployed, many of them are looking for a first job and the minister asks himself two and gives everyone moral lessons. For me, he lost the status of the righteous among the Croatian people, because he gave himself that status. Remember? So he taught everyone a moral lesson about how a government official should behave. At the moment you do, your responsibility requires you to withdraw from such a position. Why? Because you don't have authority anymore. Which one of his principals is more than allowed to say that he did something wrong when he did something wrong first. What professor? What rector? And you did the first wrong thing. But then we get to what he's saying. Just one statement: "In order for me to be a minister, four preconditions must be met: that I want to be, that I have the support of the family, that I have the support of Zoran Milanovic and that I have the support of the citizens. I won't be a minister for a second if there's not one of those four preconditions left.". There. Two: "Paid to teachers and teachers has not been reduced this year and will not be reduced in the future and there is no tendency to do so. If it's necessary to cut the salary to teachers and teachers, I won't be a minister anymore.". So what's he doing there, then? Well, all the pay's been cut. And you have 200 million more budgets than in 2011. You understand 200 million more? That's when all the salaries in the larger amount were paid, all the rights, the Christmases, the regression and everything else with 200 million less. And that's the only way to measure the truth for me. Everything else is an exhibition and some differentiation in the pumpkin league, today we testify to it because the minister is not here, but is in Rijeka. He sent Zelenik here and he went to Rijeka to resolve within the party issue if that's what it says in the paper. But that's not the way the minister has to behave. And that's why I said he's right to be the first to be asked in front of this board if that's true. Because the prime minister asked him and he said it was okay. For him, such behaviour is fine, for some others such as some former minister, one email was decided that morality and ethics and were taken from the ministerial post. It means we have multiple criteria space. I won't be here saying everything he's done in 2.5 years since the drying out of the swamp that's become an even bigger swamp, since the conflict with the Church, since the introduction of famous health care and the fourth... , from the division of athletes to similar and inappropriate, those who won gold at the World Cup or someone just because they are in the wrong sport, from the suspension of decisions in the constitutional court, so any decision shall be lifted by the Constitutional Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's no expertise. And then the last thing that came up, I watch these kids, there's one playing mandolin, he's been trying for six years, seven years to learn it, he's working hard, he's going to two schools, he's going to work hard on his parents, and then they're doing the pen thing, so you're not worth anything, and what you're doing is not worth it because some others are guilty. And of course you've come into conflict with everyone and everyone's criticizing you, they're all giving you lessons, and then he's giving everyone a lesson on the other hand. Then it becomes one level that can no longer be defended by me. And he can no longer be a credible minister. It has become a burden for everyone in the system of science and education and is lower to preschool education. And that's why we're testifying to that system, I say from top to bottom in the shape it is today. I really don't know what to say to my kid if this is what he's like as a deputy, which the deputy here says at today's colleges. Only money is important then, the teachers are corrupt, and I don't believe that's the case. And I'm sorry that the leading people of the ministry perform that way because they've been introduced, as a government one fundamental principle of mistrust not only in these educational institutions but in everything. So who trusts the tax administration more today? Courts, DORH, all of them. ... It's been torn down in the last two and a half years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80702	Thank you. We have reported three replicas. First of all, the esteemed Jasen Mesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80703	Ma a colleague you probably in your inspired speech a little more pay attention to the ministers who come from your county, probably because you are tied to your environment and you forgot the ministers who managed to come and as a point of the agenda of the Committee for Conflict of Interest. In fact, it's not just a colleague who's immune to the unethical moves of ministers. We had it in culture. Nicely in your own magazine that you co-owner assign 600 thousand kuna from the Ministry of Culture, right, you end up nice on the Committee for Conflict of Interest, it punishes you with 15 000 kuna on the war. Well, according to that logic, almost every day would be in conflict of interest. And then there's still an explanation that no one has taken advantage of materially. That's very illogical. If you have shares of something, that's what you've given state money for by your decision, then you've certainly benefited as a shareholder. And who says he didn't have direct financial benefits that maybe no one got a fee, but the fact is that a certain benefit has been achieved in a company where you have shares, where you're a small shareholder. My colleague, that's why I find it odd that you've insisted so much, you've forgotten the full case of the Minister of Agriculture, another one of the performances of successful ministers who also ended up on the commission related to your agricultural pharmacy, etc., etc. If we had a hypothetically speaking one little broader ethical commission, that de facto half of the government would have to be the subject of discussion of the commission. I am also sure on the basis of what you said, if Minister Jovanovic continues this way, he will be next in line to discuss this commission of conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80704	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80705	Thank you very much. My colleague Mesic, I don't know if he will be because look, we're in our county, I'm from the Primorje-Gorski County, and we had three ministers from that county when the government was formed. The first one was the fastest to leave, the second one was replaced, and now the one I believe is no longer the moral authority to run that ministry in view of the act with which he lost, I say, that of his rightful status among the Croatian people. That's my opinion. And now we have to deal with these decisions that he's proposing to us and ask that great question again, we all set it, what are the criteria. If he became a minister because the SDP may have gotten the most in that county or that constituency, which is now the criterion here that these are the very people. Deputy Minister, he's doing something there on his cell phone, he's not even interested in it at all. Let's tell this story to the end and go home. That's how I'm gonna finish it, and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80706	Second replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80707	Thank you very much. My colleague Boric, there is one song by Dragutin Tadjanović that seems to me if I were not mistaken, which is called That I am a teacher, and in that sense I would never set up a doctor of medicine for the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, nor would I as a doctor receive that ministerial post because I do not understand myself enough about it, nor would I have the courage and honesty to take that place into my portfolio. How come I'm like a doctor, like a surgeon or some other specialty, with that grandmother when I'm not an expert. Here's Mr. Flega, who's been in high school for 30-40 years, and there's more SDP personnel, but I don't want to talk about their personnel. In fact, when we talk about this list, then she traced what a council of the Zagreb Assembly said when funds were being allocated for associations, civil society, and she received a little coin from the association "In the name of the family. She said why them when it was a conservative association. That is the starting point of the minister when he chooses members of this committee in his discretionary right. And as for the desire to be a minister, well that's all subjective, but what's not subjective is an ad in "The Voice of Slavonia" like when there's ads in "The Voice of Istria," and they're looking for teachers in Slavonski Brod. So you wouldn't see that ad in the local newspaper itself then in "The Voice of Istria" the announcements when needed. It is a very interesting phenomenon for us in Croatia at all. In addition, these pardon the demand for carriages so for this, valotherapy etc., so you see yesterday Mr. Jovanovic asked for forgiveness for employment in SOA. First, he said there was no employment in his mandate at all, and now he asked for forgiveness yesterday because he is employed by 41 SOA employees for the last two years, which is for the SDP's mandate. It seems to have become commonplace to seek forgiveness from the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80708	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80709	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, I'm gonna be the first part where you talked about wanting to become a minister. We had a minister who said at that point give me any ministry, I'll be anything minister and after three months it was leaving the first one I got. These others were more persistent, but unpleasant things happened. And now we come to that discretionary right. You asked what discretionary right it was. Obviously, some are allowed much more than others in Croatia today and there are these discretionary rights. Because remember the Law on Higher Education and Science, that famous amendment that we adopted here and questioned the whole law. I don't know how that law works. Something proposed by the Assembly Committee, and something by the Government, in the same law. I don't know if we're gonna fix it. Hardly. So some have ruled that they have a discretionary right to impose, say, on the university community something, then they, on the other hand, via the parliamentary representative of the work and even manage to vote one amendment. You remember how the minister was here, he didn't know what he was going to do, and we have such a law today, and we're just surprised what's happening to us in the system. There's nothing good going on, unfortunately we're not going to get any better. So I don't believe that this commission either, they won't have the strength to ask him anything. And what I'm gonna tell the kid I don't know, maybe it's better to have money today than to have knowledge, if this is exactly how the deputy minister says it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80710	The last replica, respected Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80711	A fellow Boric, a fixation on a particular subject, on a particular subject, and then on the carrying out of categorical courts about what a person has fixation on, resulted in what he says mostly incorrectly because he was blinded by his own fixation. That's the first one. Second, when something special is said about it, categorical courts are then it is desirable to know something about the subject. And you've really said a lot of things not to use a little worse words and worse categorization of what you said but only as an example of a complete ignorance of the system and the complete inconsistency of what you said one thing. You said as a criticism example here's the Minister of All Cancels the Constitutional Court. Then you forgot to say that among other things, one of the decisions that the Constitutional Court had not abolished because it had ceased to apply was the decision to ask in high school. Right behind that, you're saying that the problem is why the kid who went to Music School doesn't have an extra point. You know why she's not here? Because of the Constitutional Court's decision, because if it had it, it would be brought down by the Constitutional Court. Don't get involved in anything you don't know enough about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80712	Reply Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80713	Thank you very much for your psychological analysis. I can fix myself, I don't have to fix myself, because our minister gets fixed sometimes, too. Let's say he fixed himself on one of the football players, so he didn't fix himself well, and he gave him a lot of things, i.e. The whole work ordered him to try to solve it in some way. And he was so fixated that even one lawsuit in court lost to him if I'm all right. So that's not good. I accept that, but I didn't fixate on Jovanovic because he can't impress me too much. You understand? Because when a man does damage it is impossible not to notice him, and he does nothing good by acting as head of the ministry, even harm. And for that reason, there are more than just children or parents or teachers of various levels, but a kind of resistance was created for him. That's exactly what I'm And it's no longer possible to control it from its level. And that's why the best solution we're suggesting is that he just leave and someone else comes. Well, maybe you should come for the minister, too, even though you haven't tried to survive in that system in a while. You saw that wasn't easy. But here, I believe you'd do a lot more than the current minister. That's why I think it would be best if the minister simply solved all these problems himself to resign because he no longer has moral authority in view of the act he pulled, and he shouldn't have, because he didn't need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80714	We're bringing the debate to an end. Final address by Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports of the Honored Saša Zelenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80715	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Well, we've talked a lot about a lot of things, maybe at least about the Ethics Committee, but then let's talk about some of these things, and then we'll go back to the Ethics Committee, which is neither guilty nor obliged to be the subject of a debate that doesn't have much to do with it. So, as far as the survey goes, what did you call it? It wasn't a poll. It was a European project where scientists investigated through scientific methods the appearances of unfair actions in the academic community. So, scientists themselves have been doing scientific research methods, which and how, as dishonest, unethical actions, appears in an academic community funded by the EU. And the results we get are what they are. They're bad things we have to admit, and the Ethics Committee and other instruments are a way to make it right. So, the goal is not to criminalise the academic community, but it is evident that certain problems exist. If a man who has prescribed part of his work sits at the top of a party or if a man who has been accused of this public statement in Zadar of sleeping peacefully because he lives in an dishonest society, then we all have a problem in this society, a structural problem. I mean, I don't know if that man's in Zadar. And whose it is and what it is, but the man I say is a man from the University of Zadar. [[/Intruding Stazic: No throwing fellow Shuker! No tossing.]] A man from the University of Zadar [[/Intruder Stazic: No, you are nervous. Please don't throw it away!]] Is when they caught him that he was cheating he simply said he was calm because he lived in an impious society. [[Intruder Stazic: I will not only give you a warning if you continue.]] I have no idea who that man is. It was the first time I read anything about him in the paper. I don't know what kind of party he's in or what he's in. I know I'm just saying, I think he said it and he stayed neat in his workplace. And I say, but we have a structural problem. But just so we don't have that kind of problem, we have to start dealing with them. So it's not the goal, it's not to criminalize, it's to say ok. Listen, we have one percent of the people we all suffer for, we're all high-tech because one percent of people do something that can't be done. So I'm simply saying we have to face that one percent and deal with it because of those 99% who are extremely honorable in doing a very terribly important job for all of us. Step by step. The University of Rijeka has been mentioned. A public call went to report projects that were then interested in applying to IPA funds in 2008. The whole process of preparing these projects was completed by 2010. Of the few hundred projects that have come forward, some have entered the narrow list. Two of them got as much as ready. One will go soon. It's the Silver Man Children's Hospital. Others who have been prepared since 2009 when these projects started working until 2011, when the project was declared ready to use European funds is the University of Rijeka. So this was all happening during Minister Fuchs. Everything that has to do with the University of Rijeka project except now financing because it didn't know when we were going to join the EU, whether we're going to have enough IPA allocation or just from structural funds happened during Minister Fuchs, everything. So, really... No, no, although it was someone else, third, fifth, seventh minister would have done the same thing because the job was done and the project was ready. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We now have an indicative list where most of the projects from Zagreb are large, as it should be, because Zagreb is the centre and the strongest centre in science in Croatia. At that time, the University of Rijeka was given a truly consultant to assist in preparing a 2700-euro project. Now FER, the example works but I say without any thought, uses technical assistance to prepare its 3m-euro project, a thousand times more. Why is that a problem? Of course, we all aim to prepare projects and withdraw as much money from European funds as possible by clear EU criteria. So, both the two and the fifth projects have passed the strictest possible review according to EU rules. Then Rijeka, today FER and I don't know who else, third, fifth. The projects were mentioned. Since 2007, projects that were supposed to last for 3 years, 2007, 2008, 2009 have been drawn together. They were supposed to end up at the end of 2009. We found them and they still lasted those same projects that were contracted for three years, they lasted seven years. We missed one-third of the project money, and that third is bigger than it's ever been, we've managed to free up enough resources, we've left a third to the institutions themselves. 50 million kunas of the institutions themselves are available and autonomously available, only has to go for scientific activity. No one conditions how they spend except that it's intended. The universities themselves, or institutes, use it. The other two thirds, 100 million kunas per year, I'm talking about annual amounts, we left the Croatian Foundation for Science. So we can't have any effect on how they're shared, who they're shared, whether they're shared. The Croatian Foundation for Science reminds you there is a board of directors who has been elected here in the Croatian Parliament and whose Croatian Parliament is presented with a report. Now you have on the agenda probably next or that week after you will discuss this, Report for 2012 and Strategic Plan 2014-2018. So these are scientists who, on behalf of the scientific community, manage the resources of the intended sciences. There's no effect on the minister or the ministry, nothing. Except, of course, in the planned budget. But you still vote the budget. We suggest it, yes, and we try to make that section of scientific activity as much as possible because we are aware that science is important for the development of this country. And that 150 million is more than it was in... Last year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With European funds, we did withdraw 115% of the planned budget from the European funds, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, over 300 million kuna last year. And that's your difference of 200 million kuna. These are official government documents, publicly available, 115% of the funds we planned. We pulled more because the other bodies pulled less. It can be realized within the same operational programme. So someone pulled less, we had ready projects and we pulled more. The money, which is currently running a competition for 250 doctoral posts in Croatian scientific organisations, is currently going on until 13.06. the competition via the Croatian Foundation for Science was reopened. Scientists, completely independent of reviewing applications and selecting young people who will get jobs at Croatian universities or higher universities and public scientific institutes, 250 places. Again, something that hasn't happened in years to so many jobs. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80716	Deputy, don't have a dialogue. Please state the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80717	Okay. As far as going back to the Ethics Committee, we're going somewhere with him. Someone mentioned he didn't have a lawyer. In accordance with the law of the Committee, the Registrar has a legal profession of staff of the Agency for Science and Higher Education, which is operationally managed by the Committee. If, of course, things get to the level of inethical that it's legally sad, then there are courts. It has nothing to do with the Ethics Committee. The criteria, 40 very relevant people, have been reported as candidates for the Ethics Committee. The criteria of course are scientific values, the area of science is balanced as much as possible, of course not even the applications were balanced, so it's hard to get it all out. Regional representation as much as it depends again on applications, sex, etc. And when you take all that, it's hard, I say again, of course there are very high-quality people who would also deserve to be on that committee or to be proposed, and in the end, you will decide again with your voice who will be inside. Well, in order, then, Professor. Willibic from Split, scientific advisor, 69 scientific papers with international review, cited 650 times, reviewer of papers for prominent magazines including "NATURE", rich international co-operation, national international projects, member of the Scientific Council for Natural Scientific Research of the HAZU. Doctor Macan Institute of Medical Research Medicine, scientific consultant, specialist in medicine work, improvement in the country and abroad. Someone mentioned that only colleague Baloban deals with the ethics of his colleagues. A colleague of Macan is a member of the Ethics Committee of the Institute for Medical Research of Medicine and co-author of the Institute's ethical code. Academic Silobrčić, if you know him at all, you know that he is a man who thinks with his own head and certainly does not support anyone, and he does not attack because he is not convinced that he has arguments for whom he stands. A colleague of Silobrčić was proposed by the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. He's a regular member of the HAZU. He was perfecting in the U.S. He was the director of the Immunological Institute. He worked at the Immunological Institute and the Faculty of Medicine at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute. He was president of an immunologist's society. Editor-in-chief of the Periodicum Biologorum magazine. Member of many scientific and professional bodies. He was a member of the Executive Board of the Croatian Helsinki Committee on Human Rights, I guess that's some kind of reference to this. And the president of the HRT program council. Dr. Andreja Braša-Žganec, scientific advisor, teacher and regular professor at several components at the University of Zagreb. Two international projects, five books, fifty-seven papers. Member of scientific and professional associations. She was president of the Ethics Committee of the Croatian Psychological Chamber. And now he's a member of the court to honor that chamber. He participates in the Standing Committee on Ethics of the European Federation of Psychologists Associations. Professor Kersan-Škabić of the University of Pula, again regional representation. A regular professor, co-author of fifty scientific papers. She was a prodigal, perfected in the country and abroad. Working on national international projects. Dr. Starc, Zagreb Economic Institute. Scientific consultant, co-founder of the Centre for Islands in Mali Losinj. International science ancient for island development. Organiser... libertas during the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Professor Baloban, a regular professor in a permanent title at the Catholic-Godology college. Lectures at the Catholic-Godology in Zagreb. Three terms of office was the dean. He was a member of the National High Education Council. Ljiljana Koleshnik Institute of Art History. Head and associate on a number of national international projects. Active in class. She's the author of a number of renowned papers. And finally, a colleague of Enes Midzic from the University of Zagreb. Artistic area, regular professor in permanent calling. He was a dean, a professional, head of several departments of the Academy of Drama Arts, then. It's the university's proctor. the winner of national medals, these national foreign recognitions. Author of scientific and professional papers, books, textbooks, films etc. etc. So I'm saying, I mean really... Anyway, you have everything in yours, if you need to read one thing at a time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80718	Deputy, I beg you kindly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80719	So I'm saying, it's been pretty much the quality of every candidate that's been taken care of. I'm saying, of course, it doesn't say that among the other 31 there are no extraordinary people, but you just have to propose some for which, by again criteria and scientific quality, and how many regional distributions and areas of science etc. to find the least bad or the best possible solution. And that's the only truth. So let me say, once again really without any thought, nor say really, at the end of the ballad I say again you will vote, you will decide who will enter that committee. So I really ask you, given the quality of the candidate, to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80720	Thank you. Now they're following the replicas. First of all, the respected Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80721	Dear colleague, I know very well who Enese Midzic is, I have appointed him President of the Governing Council of the Croatian... I know his qualities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The point is to explain why these nine and why not 31. I know it's not easy to pull the criteria here, that's what I said, and you didn't tell us. And the fact is, in the end, it was made by the minister's discretionary decision. And the fact is, in the end, the Parliament will vote for it because it has most of what it has. When you talk about who's sitting in a society, half the ministers you're sitting with, and also in government meetings, ended up at the Committee of Conflict of Interest. At the time of this culture nonsense, someone's own self-inflicted that his 600,000 kuna magazine and we're moving on, no one, we're moving on, he gets 15 grand fines. And to you, is that something to sit with? This procedure lasts that you mentioned, and it will certainly come from that repercussion, if there is anything. After all, it's in the Administrative Court. But then the president of that committee who confirmed it, if anything, must answer. If it was a commission that let it go, which once said one, and the other time, then it's quite an ethical topic, for the Committee on Ethics in Science. And they're first of all responsible. When you give funding to the programme and one-third of the institutions, the second part of the Science Foundation, and before that you appoint an institution director and appoint most of the votes to the Science Foundation, then it's not until the end, and you say that you have no impact on how these programs were shared, but again the question of the criteria by which they shared, we will hear their report. That's why I'm saying it's going to be very interesting. When you say it's the largest number... Not true, in the term of office of Minister Primorac there were 2200 scientific recruits in 3 years [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you can also check that information. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80722	The reply to the replica of Deputy Minister of Honor, Zelenika. Here you go. Out of place.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80723	The truth is that we have 2,000 recruits in the system right now, but suddenly in a month, a contest is being opened and it's completely, in a month, the contest... Yeah, yeah, yeah, everything's fine. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The 250-seat contest and it's completely left to an independent body composed of scientists themselves, so there's no impact again on the ministry is really... for our academic community. Again, the point is that whatever we could, from books, magazines, gatherings, wherever the criteria of science should be respected in the award of public funds, everywhere we have independent commissions, everywhere, at least independent commissions. And where it is most sensitive, where the most money and money that are then influenced and what you yourself have said is right, and careers, working relationships, etc., are completely independent bodies, bodies that match the Parliament. So, Croatian, again, board of directors, you chose him and they report to you every year. The Parliament chose him. But we gave him instruments. So in the past 8 years, the Croatian Foundation for Science received 2 million and 800 thousand kuna. They now account for over 80 million, 50 of which will now share for this first year of these projects, which are now evaluated and these 250 doctoral posts, and now the 6th, 7th month is going to be a new tender for a new tranche of about 250 projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80724	Second replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80725	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, you know what the biggest tragedy is? When someone says he's come by the book, something comes along, and then this phone booth starts to come up with cheap political stuff. That's what you just did, and I don't know why because the debate didn't go that way at all. However, it is very interesting that you as a scientist should at least have some criteria. So don't say that one institution got the money by chance, so she accidentally called the competition, not in newspapers that are all over the area... and not even close, it's a few hundred miles away, and then, as a coincidence, the minister who still has two years of office reported to that competition and got the job. And if it hadn't come out, nothing. And then they go to give moral lessons, whom I'm based on. She has the Bible, so let her cast the stone first, who is innocent, who is not a sinner. So when you talk about something, the criteria, if you choose something, choose, you have to set some criteria. We did not want to discuss practically... of these candidates, it would simply not be correct and fair because of these people, all of them are experts in their area and it would not be simply correct, whether you agree with someone or disagree, at a personal level to debate. Third thing, withdrawing 115 percent of the funds, that's impossible. You can withdraw 100% of the funds. If someone has granted you more funds, then you're back within 100%, you can't possibly be 115. You can nod your head as much as you want, finances have their own rules, then whoever gave you those funds was wrong because he can't give you any more than he's foreseen by some financial plan, he had to rebalance that financial plan and you... more funds, and then it's still not 115, but 100%. So a series of things that just aren't good, but I'm saying, the biggest tragedy of your ministry is that you have different criteria and different views...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80726	Replication response, Deputy Sasha Zelenick.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80727	So again, the criteria are equal to everything. That's the obvious problem, so there's nothing, never, never, not one object that's come to me on the table has passed, and that the criteria haven't been equal to anything, not one. Jobs at universities that are autonomous until the government decision of the end of last year when limited employment was called up by the universities themselves, they had to ask us nothing at all. Not even, which is a huge problem, as you know during the Minister of the Primorac, they've been breaking the budget for ten years, high schools due to exactly the human policies and the growth of the wage mass. And that's the problem you've been facing as Minister of Finance. The job is in Osijek, I didn't mean to refer to it on purpose, but then, autonomously, it was called by the university according to all the legal, positive legal regulations. In the same way, but many... if we want to call ourselves precisely and call the elected counterpart Jura Radic, counterpart Branko Jerem, and Minister Primorac has become a regular professor, four steps in his term as a senior assistant. Four steps passed in his term. With a living, working Ethics Committee. 115%, again. The European funds have, are differently structured, so they are structured according to operational programmes, so different components of the operational programme must remain within 100%, of course, but if one pulls less, and the other has ready projects, it can withdraw more.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80728	Okay, thanks. Third replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80729	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Zelenika, by your criteria that you have applied to elect members of this committee, I would have if the minister had chosen 9 others in those 31st. Do we agree? No, I don't. Okay. I'd pick nine others. The same would be true of the criteria. I asked you a question, how with 200 million more in the budget than in 2011 can we do less? So, less wages, all the extras, regresses, etc., not counting for the hundredth time. You can explain that to us, what are you and what are we spending that extra money on compared to 2011 when you see how much savings were on those items themselves? I don't know if you normally mean when you started teaching us ethics and morality here, etc. talk about honors and not honors. Is that the Minister's procedure normal to you as a deputy, means another job he's doing? Because I didn't get a written reply from the minister, so I put it in my current class, and he promised me he'd answer me in writing because he didn't tell me and why did you give up when everything was okay. It means why you gave up when everything was okay. Then normally it should continue, and there's nothing, all right. But the minister gave up that job that was frozen, so you could explain it to us. Here, that we who are in some bad company understand from you who are in Bundesliga, so that it is the Bundesliga. We're some county out there or God knows which one. We're mine workers, and you're the Bundesliga, so explain to us how? Is it normal for you to tell me if my minister in office can get another job, I'd like to hear it from you. Because he's the only one who's been able to boast about half the mandate, the only one who's done an hour's presentation that no one's ever wanted to watch because there's no success there, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80730	The reply to the replica of Deputy Minister Sasha Zelenick.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80731	So again, the funds of the ministries have been about the same since 2008 or the ninth total budget of the ministry. What is problematic is that the wage mass grew on average at a relative rate of 5% per year, which is a trend that is unsustainable because you have less and less resources for all ministry activities, all of the ministry's programmes. The funds are bigger this year thanks to European funds, so through European funds, we are withdrawing funds to build scientific infrastructure, schools, kindergartens, etc. Teachers have been paid, so again Regulation 3579 has been abolished, which has not had legal basis since 2004, so 8 years has been consummated illegally again. Instead, teachers were given a salary increase when this regulation was abolished, and now that all public and state officials in the State have been denied the supplement 4,80 then teachers of beginners all increased their salaries 3.5%, mentors 6% and advisors 8%. 85% of the system employees have higher salaries than they had before 85%. So that's true. What has been done with other means, so once again, transportation for all high school students has been secured. Today, the number of scholarships in higher schools is twice as high as 2.5 years ago, so the number double the amount is twice as high as it was then. So there were 500 to 800 kuna individual scholarships a month, now 1,200 have them twice as many as there were. It's more science projects than it's ever been. So those key places were affected and the shifts were visible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80732	Time. The last replica of the esteemed Sunhead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80733	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Boric to ask for a written answer, yes. So, Mr. Zelenika, I haven't been involved in the debate before, but I'm a little surprised by your level of address, first of all you here speak on behalf of the Government on behalf of the Proposer, we're representatives who have been elected and we can use our tools to defend our views and question anything we don't understand. So you don't have to give us a clue, we're written enough to read something, but it would be nice if you could answer our questions. We have not received answers to many questions. You say that you have improved education policy, that I will increase resources, so I will just remind you that the years you mentioned, in those years Croatia was not an EU member and some projects simply could not be realised and some of the funds could not be withdrawn in this way. So we're talking the way it is. I'm curious if the education and higher education system has made progress, then why are there so many dissatisfactions, and then perhaps we should deal with these issues, not that you spent 20 minutes defending topics that aren't metrics or that don't apply to this point we're discussing. You don't have to be a lawyer. I'm sure your superior in the ministry, and you've been a little promoted, so you don't have to treat the MPs that way. We're here to ask, and you're here to answer us. So then you'd like to answer me, do you know how much this increased salary of a beginner's teacher is at this point? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80734	This is not the current morning, you replicate, the deputy minister answers the line, can answer, does not have to answer, and the current morning answers questions. Replication response. Here you go, Deputy. Now the deputy minister will reply to the replica if I give him my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80735	I apologize if for any reason you've gotten the impression of me being a doctor, it really wasn't my intention. I simply tried to answer your questions and the topics that were open through the debate without any intention of saying that I have any offensive position. However, I say here we are just to discuss these topics. Yes, indeed I say the funds were not available to us until a year ago and indeed that difference that exists now in the budget, the increase in the budget is because of European funds, and I have pointed out 3 or 4 times. So without these funds, about the budget of the national funds that has been constant since 2008, which I will again consider that since then our GDP has fallen and that we have fallen, so 2008 was the last pre-crisis year, that we have fallen somewhere 12% and is saying that relatively compared to GDP has generally grown. Those figures I mentioned refer to funds from, to national funds, funds from the state budget of national components. So both transport and projects and scholarships and student nutrition and many other things, so they were just found in part of the state budget from national funds. The salary of beginner teachers therefore increased 3.5% I say and now somewhere at the level again depends on where man lives and how many children there are and how much like 5700 kuna I say net depending on the taxes and other circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80736	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. A fellow Shuker you have a word for. You have your word, please. ... [[/Intruder: What?]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80737	Well, I was looking for a word on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80738	Come on, say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80739	So, Mr. President, no one is defending you from your observations on a matter but you can't violate the fundamental right of counsel. You can't tell a representative that in the replica he can't ask a government representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80740	That's not what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80741	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80742	I'm just saying this isn't current in the morning. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80743	That's what you said, look at the phonogram, look at the phonogram, and you'll see. The second thing, thank God, is a time when someone has educated someone who can speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80744	I've closed the debate. Therefore, we will vote when the conditions are met and now I am interrupting the session. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the Annual Defence Report for 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-05-0.u80745	Proposal for a decision appointing members of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed decision was made by a majority vote of 79 votes in favour of, 14 against, 7 abstentions made in the text as proposed by the proposal.
